LOAN NUMBER 8493-AR
Loan Agreement
(Forests and Community Project)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 
21st 
, 2015
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
2 1 SET 
, 2015, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
("Borrower") 
and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I- GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty eight million seven hundred sixty
thousand Dollars ($58,760,000), as such amount may be converted from time to
time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section
2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
-2-
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower, through SAyDS, and with the assistance of RDAs, shall carry out
the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that any
RDA shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations under the pertinent
RDA Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the
Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consist of the following, namely, that
the UNDP Agreement has been executed in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Economy and Public Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas Piblicas
Hip6lito Yrigoyen 250
C1086 AAB, Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
MINISTERIO
DE ECONOMIA 
121942-AR 
(5411) 4349-8815
Baires
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at Buenos Aires, Argentina, as of the day and year first ab 
ritten.
ACUERDO MEyFP NO 116/15 
ARGENTINE REP 
IC
By
Aut hred 
presentative
ame: 
Dr. AX 
KI ILLOF
Title:
4NATION 0K FOR
STRU 
ON AND DEVELOPMENT
By 
dI
Authorized Representative
Name:
Title:12
-5-
SCHEDULE1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve forest management and increase access to
markets and basic services by small forest producers (including indigenous people and
Campesinos) in Selected Northern Provinces.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: Sustainable Livelihoods
Improve the livelihood of small forest producers and promote sustainable forest landscape
management, with special emphasis on the Chaco Ecoregion, through:
1. 
The preparation of Integrated Community Plans ("PICs") including: (a) the
carrying out of forest landscape management planning, mapping, and consultations
to produce PICs in approximately two hundred and fifty communities; and (b) the
identification and design of activities to be included in said PICs.
2. 
The implementation of PICs, including, inter alia: (a) the provision of technical
assistance to approximately two hundred and fifty communities to support the
implementation of PICs; and (b) the carrying out of activities under the PICs,
including, inter alia: (i) forest management planning; (ii) enhanced resilience and
productivity of agricultural and livestock management; (iii) forest and agricultural
product processing and packaging; (iv) land tenure strengthening activities and
pilots; (v) the installation of wells for potable water and rain water harvesting
systems; (vi) the installation of alternative energy and wood energy systems
(including improved wood stoves and improved charcoal kilns).
3. 
The design and implementation of Subprojects.
Part B: Natural Forest Management and Civil Society
Carrying out of a national forest and climate awareness campaign to expand and maintain
support for the implementation of the Forest Law, through the establishment and/or
expansion of existing community radio stations in approximately fifty locations to
distribute information locally (in Spanish and/or in native languages) on sustainable natural
resources management, climate resilience and indigenous rights.
Part C: Skills Development and Technology Transfer
Strengthening the technical and managerial skills of: (a) indigenous and Campesino
community members; (b) small forest producers; and (c) technical service providers and
extension agents working in the Selected Northern Provinces, through the provision of
short training courses including both classroom and community level instruction, and
financing of scholarship grants.
-6-
Part D: Forest Monitoring
Expanding SAyDS technical and institutional capacity to manage forest information and
monitor changes in forest cover, including:
1. 
The expansion of coverage of the forest administration, control and verification
system to at least ten Selected Northern Provinces;
2. 
The establishment of a national deforestation and forest degradation early warning
system; and
3. 
The establishment and monitoring of a national grid of permanent sample plots.
Part E: Project Management and Impact Monitoring
1. 
Provision of support for the technical and administrative coordination of the
Project, including the hiring of consultants to staff the NEU and LEUs.
2. 
The development of an impact evaluation system to identify changes in outcomes
directly attributable to Project activities.
3. 
The development and implementation of a grievance redress mechanism to
identify and resolve Project related grievances.
-7-
SCHEDULE2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower, through SAyDS, shall:
(a) 
maintain, throughout Project implementation, a unit ("NEU") with
structure, functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank as set forth
in the Operational Manual, including inter alia, the responsibility of the
NEU to implement, monitor and supervise the carrying out of the Project
(including its financial and procurement aspects);
(b) 
ensure that the NEU is, throughout Project implementation, headed by an
Executive Project Director, and staffed with adequate professional,
fiduciary, administrative and technical personnel (including social and
environmental specialists), all with qualifications, experience and terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank, as set forth in the Operational Manual;
(c) 
establish (not later than the dates defined in the Operational Manual),
operate and maintain throughout the execution of the Project, local
implementation units (the LEUs), with functions and responsibilities
acceptable to both the Borrower and the Bank and with staff in number
and with qualifications and experience acceptable to both the Borrower
and the Bank.
(d) 
not later than three months after the Effective Date, establish and maintain,
throughout Project implementation, a National Project Consultative
Committee (NPCC), chaired by SAyDS's Undersecretary of Planning and
Environmental Policy and Forestry Director and comprised of senior
representatives of RDAs, with functions and responsibilities acceptable to
the Bank and defined in the Operational Manual, including: (i) the
provision of political and strategic guidance and the carrying out of general
oversight of the Project; and (ii) the carrying out of inter-institutional
coordination to facilitate the participation and cooperation of public
entities involved in Project implementation and other relevant RDAs and
non-government organizations.
(e) 
not later than three months after the date in which each LEU was created,
e tablish and maintain, throughout Project implementation, Local Project
onsultation Committees (LPCC) to operate with each LEU, comprised
of: (i) public and private entities; and (ii) indigenous people and
-8-
Campesino's 
community 
organizations, 
with 
functions 
and
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank and defined in the Operational
Manual, including the carrying out of coordinated and collaborative
interventions at community level and the provision of support for the
institutionalization of Project activities at provincial and local level.
2. 
RDA Agreement
For the purposes of implementing Parts A, B and C of the Project, the Borrower,
through SAyDS shall enter into an agreement with each RDA (the RDA
Agreement), under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, setting forth each
RDA's respective role and responsibilities to assist in the implementation of said
Parts A, B and C of the Project.
3. 
UNDP Agreement
The Borrower, through SAyDS, shall enter into an agreement with UNDP (the
UNDP Agreement), under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, setting
forth UNDP's obligation to act as a financial agent for the Project, including
UNDP's responsibility to carry out disbursement and payments under the Project
on behalf of the Borrower. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower,
through SAyDS, shall not assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, waive or fail to
enforce the UNDP Agreement or any of its provisions.
B. 
Operational Manual
1 .
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall, and shall cause the RDAs and Beneficiaries (as the case may be),
to carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of a manual (the
Operational Manual), acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia: (a)
the procedures for the carrying out, monitoring and evaluation of the Project; (b)
the organizational structure of the Project; (c) the Project procurement and
financial management requirements and procedures; (iv) environmental guidelines
for construction, including procedures to follow in case of unexpected findings of
objects with possible cultural or archeological value; (d) guidelines for the
adoption of an integrated pest management approach in all applicable activities to
be developed under the Project; (e) the eligibility criteria for the selection of
Beneficiaries under Subprojects; (f) the criteria for the approval, implementation
and monitoring of the Subprojects; (g) the standard environmental provisions to be
included in the bidding documents for investments to be carried out under the
Project; (h) the Project's chart of accounts and internal controls; (i) the indicators
to be used for Project monitoring and evaluation.
-9-
2. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, terminate
or waive the Operational Manual or any of its provisions. In case of any conflict
among the terms of the Operational Manual and those of this Agreement, the terms
of this Agreement shall prevail.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D. 
Subprojects
1 .
For purposes of carrying out any given Subproject under Part A.3 of the Project,
and prior to the carrying out of any Project activities under the pertinent
Subproject, the Borrower, through SAyDS, shall: (i) provide grant financing from
the Loan proceeds to an eligible Subproject Beneficiary in an amount not to exceed
$10,000 equivalent, and (ii) enter into an agreement (the Subproject Agreement)
with the corresponding Subproject Beneficiary, all under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia, the obligation of each
Subproject Beneficiary:
(a) 
to carry out the Subproject in accordance with the pertinent provisions of
this 
Agreement, 
including 
technical, 
financial, 
administrative,
environmental and fiduciary standards acceptable to the Bank;
(b) 
to provide the counterpart funds, facilities, services and other resources
necessary or appropriate to carry out the corresponding Subproject;
(c) 
to comply with the provisions of the Environmental and Management
Framework (EMF), the Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF), the
Indigenous People Policy Framework (IPPF), and the Process Framework,
as applicable, in accordance with their terms and those of this Agreement
and the Operational Manual;
(d) 
to ensure that the pertinent Subproject is carried out in accordance with
the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines;
(e) 
to take or permit to be taken all action to enable the Borrower, through
SAyDS, to comply with its obligations referred to in this Agreement, as
applicable to the carrying out of the pertinent Subproject;
(f) 
if applicable, to comply with the obligations referred to in Sections 5.04,
5.05, 5.06, 5.07 5.10 and 5.11 of the General Conditions (relating to
insurance, land acquisition, use of goods, works and services, and
maintenance of facilities, plans, documents and records, cooperation and
consultations and visits, respectively) in respect of the respective
Subproject; and
-10-
(g) 
not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to enforce
the Subproject Agreement or any provision thereof unless previously
agreed by the Borrower, through SAyDS, and the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower, through SAyDS, shall exercise its rights and carry out its
obligations under any Subproject Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through SAyDS, shall not
assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any Subproject
Agreement or any of its provisions.
E. 
Scholarships
For purposes of providing scholarship grants under Part C of the Project, the
Borrower, though SAyDS, shall: (i) select the recipients of the scholarship grants
in accordance with clear eligibility criteria acceptable to the Bank and set forth in
the Operational Manual; and (ii) prior to the payment of any scholarship grant, the
Borrower, through SAyDS, shall enter into an agreement with each recipient,
detailing, inter alia, the grant amount and the expenditures to be financed by said
scholarship grant.
F. 
Safeguards
1 .
The Borrower, through SAyDS, shall: (a) implement the Project in accordance
with the Environmental Management Framework (EMF), including the procedures
detailed in said EMF for environmental screening, evaluation, implementation and
monitoring of the activities under the Project, as well as the procedures for the
preparation of environmental management plans, when applicable; and (b)
implement and/or cause to be implemented the pertinent environmental
management plan, in accordance with its terms and in a manner acceptable to the
Bank.
2. 
The Borrower, through SAyDS, shall: (a) implement the Project in accordance
with the Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) and the Process Framework,
including the procedures detailed in said RPF for screening, evaluation,
implementation and monitoring of the Project activities and Subprojects, as well
as the procedures for the preparation of resettlement action plans, when applicable;
and (b) implement and/or cause to implement the pertinent resettlement action plan
in accordance with its terms and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through SAyDS, shall: (a) implement the Project in accordance
with the Indigenous People Planning Framework (IPPF), including the procedures
detailed in said IPPF for screening, evaluation, implementation, and monitoring of
the activities under the Project, as well as procedures for the preparation of
indigenous peoples plans, when applicable; and (b) implement the pertinent
indigenous peoples plan in accordance with its terms, and in a manner acceptable
to the Bank.
4. 
The Borrower, through SAyDS, shall ensure that implementation of those PICs
under Part A of the Project which address implementation of forest management
or harvesting by small scale holders shall be subject to the development of forest
management plans acceptable to the Bank and compliant with the Borrower's
applicable regulations pertaining to the Forest Law.
5. 
The Borrower, through SAyDS, shall ensure that the terms of reference for any
consultancies related to the technical assistance provided under the Project, shall
be acceptable to the Bank following its review thereof and, to that end, such terms
of reference shall duly incorporate the requirement of the Bank's Safeguard
Policies then in force, as applied to the advice conveyed through such technical
assistance.
Section H. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to
the Bank not later than forty five days after the end of the period covered by such
report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1 .
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report after the end of each
calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the
semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. 
Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The
udited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than six months after the end of such period.
-12-
Section HI. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
4. 
Special Provisions. Without limitation to the other provisions in Section III.A of
this Schedule, the following additional provisions shall also govern the
procurement of goods, works, non-consulting services and consultants' services
under the Project (as the case may be):
(a) 
procurement of goods, works, non-consulting services and consultants'
services (in respect of firms) shall be carried out using: (i) (A) standard
bidding documents (which bidding documents in respect of works shall
include, if applicable, a provision whereby the pertinent contractor must
comply with the pertinent provisions of the corresponding environmental
management and/or indigenous peoples' plan (including the provisions of
any updated/adjusted version) or similar safeguards instrument referred to
in Section I.F. 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement); and (B) standard
requests for quotations/proposals (as the case may be), all acceptable to
the Bank, which shall all include, inter alia, a settlement of dispute
provision and the pertinent provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines;
(ii) model bid evaluation forms, and model quotations/proposals
evaluation forms (as the case may be); and (iii) model contract forms, all
acceptable to the Bank;
(b) 
all contracts for works to be procured under the Project shall contain a
methodology, acceptable to the Bank, whereby the price of each said
contracts shall be adjusted through the use of price adjustment formulas,
in a manner acceptable to the Bank;
-13-
(c) 
a two-envelope bidding procedure shall not be allowed in the procurement
of goods, works and non-consulting services;
(d) 
after the public opening of bids for goods, works and non-consulting
services, information relating to the examination, clarification and
evaluation of bids and recommendations concerning awards, shall not be
disclosed to bidders or other persons not officially concerned with this
process until the publication of contract award. In addition, bidders and/or
other persons not officially concerned with said process shall not be
allowed to review or make copies of other bidders' bids;
(e) 
after the public opening of consultants' proposals, information relating to
the 
examination, 
clarification 
and evaluation of proposals 
and
recommendations concerning awards, shall not be disclosed to consultants
or other persons not officially concerned with this process until the
publication of contract award (except as provided in paragraphs 2.23 and
2.30 of the Consultant Guidelines). In addition, consultants and/or other
persons not officially concerned with said process shall not be allowed to
review or make copies of other consultants' proposals;
(f) 
foreign bidders or foreign consultants shall not, as a condition for
submitting bids or proposals and/or for contract award: (i) be required to
be registered in Argentina (except as provided in the standard bidding
documents referred to in paragraph 4 (a) (i) (A) above); (ii) be required to
have a representative in Argentina; and (iii) be required to be associated
or subcontract with Argentine suppliers, contractors or consultants;
(g) 
the invitations to bid, bidding documents, minutes of bid openings,
requests for expressions of interest and the pertinent summary of the
evaluation reports of bids and proposals of all goods, works, non-
consulting services and consultants' services procured by the Borrower
shall be published in the web page of the Borrower's Office of National
Procurement (Oficina Nacional de Contrataciones), and in a manner
acceptable to the Bank. The bidding period shall be counted from the date
of publication of the invitation to bid or the date of the availability of the
bidding documents, whichever is later, to the date of bid opening;
(h) 
the provisions set forth in paragraphs 2.49, 2.50, 2.52, 2.53, 2.54 and 2.59
of the Procurement Guidelines shall also be applicable to contracts for
goods, works and non-consulting services to be procured under National
Competitive Bidding procedures;
(i) 
references to bidders in one or more specialized magazines shall not be
sed by the Borrower, in determining if the bidder in respect of goods
hose bid has been determined to be the lowest evaluated bid has the
-14-
capability and resources to effectively carry out the contract as offered in
the bid, as referred to in the provision set forth in paragraph 2.58 of the
Procurement Guidelines. The provision set forth in paragraph 2.58 of the
Procurement Guidelines (including the limitation set forth herein) shall
also be applicable to contracts for goods to be procured under National
Competitive Bidding procedures;
(j) 
witness prices shall not be used as a parameter for bid evaluation, bid
rejection or contract award;
(k) 
the Borrower shall: (i) supply the SEPA with the information contained in
the initial Procurement Plan within 30 days after the Project has been
approved by the Bank; and (ii) update the Procurement Plan at least every
three months, or as required by the Bank, to reflect the actual Project
implementation needs and progress and shall supply the SEPA with the
information contained in the updated Procurement Plan immediately
thereafter;
(1) 
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids shall apply to
goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower in respect of contracts
for goods to be procured under International Competitive Bidding
procedures;
(in) 
compliance by bidders with the norms issued by ISO with respect to any
given good procured under the Project shall not be used as parameter for
contract award;
(n) 
consultants shall not be required to submit bid or performance securities;
(o) 
contracts of goods, works and non-consulting services shall not be
awarded to the "most convenient" bid, but rather to the bidder whose bid
has been determined: (i) to be substantially responsive; and (ii) to offer the
lowest evaluated bid, provided that said bidder has demonstrated to the
Borrower, through SAyDS, to be qualified to perform the contract
satisfactorily; and
(p) 
the types of contracts described in Section IV of the Consultant Guidelines
shall be the only types of contracts to be used by the Borrower, in
connection with the contracting of consultants' services provided by a firm
and to be financed with the proceeds of the Loan.
-15-
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive
Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set forth in Section III. A.4 above; (b)
Shopping; (c) Direct Contracting; and (d) under Subcomponent A.3, Community
Participation procedures which have been found acceptable to the Bank.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; 
(d) Selection based on Consultants'
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Procedures set
forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of
Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
structions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
'World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised
-16-
from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant
to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures to
Allocated 
be financed
Categzory 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Works 
10,900,000 
100%
(2) Goods 
24,333,100 
100%
(3) Consultant's services 
2,820,000 
100%
(4) Non-consultant
services 
7,520,000 
100%
(5) Training and 
7,970,000 
100%
Scholarships
(6) Subprojects under Part 
2,000,000 
100%
A.3 of the Project
(7) Operating Costs 
3,070,000 
100%
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this Agreement
in accordance with Section 2.07
(b) of the General Conditions
(9) Interest Rate Cap or 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar 
0 
Section 2.08(c) of this
premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
58,760,000
For the purposes of this Section the terms:
(i) 
"Operating Costs" means the following management and supervision costs, to the
extent they would not have been incurred absent the Project: (a) costs for utilities,
maintenance and consumable office supplies, printing services, communication
services, and incidental costs associated with the Project; (b) logistics for
workshops; and (c) travel expenses (air tickets and per diem); and
(ii) 
"Training" means expenditures (other than those for consultant's services)
incurred by the Borrower, through SAyDS, all as approved by the Bank on the
basis of an annual budget acceptable to the Bank, to finance reasonable
transportation costs and per-diem of trainees and trainers (if applicable), training
-17-
registration fees, trainers fees and rental of training facilities and equipment under
the Project.
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,600,000 may be made for
payments made prior to this date but on or after January 15, 2015 (but in no case
more than one year prior to the date of this Agreement), for Eligible Expenditures.
2/ 
The Closing Date is November 30, 2020.
-18-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each February 15 and August 15
Beginning on August 15, 2022
through February 15, 2047 
1.96%
On August 15, 2047 
2.00%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
-19-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
s h amount.
-20-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Bank Safeguard Policies" means the Bank's operational policies and procedures
set forth in the Bank's Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04. 4.09, 4.10,
4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37, 7.50 and 7.60 as said manual is published under
www.WorldBank.org/opmanual.
3. 
"Campesinos" means people from rural communities living in forest areas of the
Selected Northern Provinces, as described in the definition of Comunidades
Campesinas, included in Article 2 of the Borrower's Decree No.91-2009, dated
February 13, 2009, and duly published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on
February 16, 2009.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
5. 
"Chaco Ecoregion" means Region Forestal Parque Chaqueio, the highly
threatened forest ecosystem located in the Borrower's north territory and
comprising about thirteen provinces and about one million square kilometers of
forests, wetlands, palm savannas, grassland and rangelands.
6. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
7. 
"Forest Law" means the Borrower's Law No. 26.331, dated November 28, 2007,
and duly published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on December 26, 2007.
8. 
"Environmental Management Framework" or "EMF" means the Borrower's
framework, dated February 20, 2015, acceptable to the Bank which contains, inter
alia the environmental protection measures in respect of the Project, including: (a)
measures for chance findings of physical cultural property; (b) protection of natural
habitats; (c) guidelines for the identification of existing environmental conditions
and potential direct and indirect environmental impacts resulting from the carrying
out of the Project (including Subprojects); (d) guidelines for the carrying out of
environmental assessments and the preparation of environmental management
plans and forest management plans, when applicable; (e) the recommendation of
mitigation measures for each negative impact identified; and (f) measures for
-21-
enhancing each identified positive impact; as said framework may be updated
and/or amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
9. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
10. 
"Integrated Community Plans" or "PICs" means the plans for forest and land
management which have the objective of raising incomes and improving the
quality of life of small forest producers and increasing resilience to drought
through demand-driven investments in the Selected Northern Provinces.
11. 
"Indigenous People Policy Framework" or "IPPF" means the Borrower's
indigenous peoples framework, dated February 20, 2015, acceptable to the Bank,
setting forth the indigenous peoples policy framework applicable to all the
activities to be carried out under the Project and the basis and procedures to prepare
specific indigenous peoples' plans or related instruments during Project
implementation; as said framework may be updated and/or amended from time to
time with the agreement of the Bank.
12. 
"ISO" means International Organization for Standardization, an international-
standard-setting body composed of representatives from various national standards
organizations which issues world-wide proprietary industrial and commercial
standards for products.
13. 
"LEUs" means the local implementation units referred to in Section I.A.1(c) of
Schedule 2 to this Loan Agreement.
14. 
"LPCC" means Local Project Consultation Committee, the committee referred to
in Section I.A. 1 (e) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
15. 
"NPCC" means National Project Consultative Committee, the committee referred
to in Section I.A. 1 (d) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
16. 
"NEU" means the unit referred to in Section I.A. 1 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Loan
Agreement.
17. 
"Process Framework" means the access restriction process framework, dated
February 23, 2015, satisfactory to the Bank, which sets forth, the governing
measures and actions to be taken during the implementation of the Project to
restore or ensure alternative livelihoods and to assist the affected persons and the
arr gements for their implementation, as said framework may be revised from
t* e to time with the prior approval of the Bank.
-22-
18. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
19. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
February 26, 2015 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines
and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
20. 
"Rural Development Agency" or "RDA" means any government entity which is
operating in any of the Selected Northern Provinces and meets the eligibility
criteria for assisting in the implementation of Parts A, B or C of the Project, as set
forth in the Operational Manual.
21. 
"RDA Agreement" means the agreement between the Borrower, through SAyDS,
and any RDA, referred to in Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
22. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" means the Borrower's document dated
February 20, 2015, specifying the population resettlement policies, planning
principles, institutional arrangements, procurement arrangements and design
criteria that shall apply to the preparation and carrying out of the action plans for
the resettlement of population under the Project.
23. 
"SAyDS" means Secretaria de Ambiente y Desarrollo Sustentable de la Naci6n,
the Borrower's Secretariat of Environment and Sustainable Development, under
the Jefatura de Gabinete de Ministros de la Naci6n.
24. 
"Scholarships" means the scholarship grants to be awarded in accordance to the
provisions of Section I.E of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
25. 
"Selected Northern Provinces" means any of the following Borrower's provinces:
(i) Salta; (ii) Santiago del Estero; (iii) Chaco; (iv) Misiones; and (v) Jujuy or any
other province, in addition or substitution therefore, selected between the Borrower
and the Bank.
26. 
"SEPA" means the Bank's publicly accessible Procurement Plans Execution
System.
27. 
"Subproject" means a set of activities to be implemented by a Subproject
Beneficiary or group of Subproject Beneficiaries, consisting of small-scale
productive investments, including, inter alia, the processing and marketing of
timber and non-timber forest products and/or agricultural products, which
Subproject is selected, approved and implemented in accordance with the
equirements of the Operational Manual.
-23-
28. 
"Subproject Agreement" means the agreement between the NEU and each
Subproject Beneficiary referred to in Section I.D. 1 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
29. 
"Subproject Beneficiary" means a group formed by small-scale forest producers,
wood workers, small-scale entrepreneurs of the wood, or non-timber product
productive chains, organized in associations, cooperatives, unions or any other
form of incorporation with a legal personality (persona juridica), duly established
in the Borrower's territory in accordance with the applicable laws, and/or local
residents and communities (organized as associations, cooperatives, unions or any
other form of incorporation with a legal personality) eligible for receiving
financing from the Loan proceeds for carrying out a Subproject under Part A.3 of
the Project.
30. 
"UNDP" means the United Nations Development Program.
31. 
"UNDP Agreement" means the agreement to be entered between the Borrower,
through SAyDS, and UNDP, referred to in Section I.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
Section H. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1 .
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
aragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
-24-
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any
prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of
a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable
upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any
Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the 
ds "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
