LOAN NUMBER 8520-I('
Loan Agreement
(Emergecy Operation for Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF IRAQ
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Datcd 
,2015
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8520-1,I
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT datod 
% 
% 
2015, between REPUBLIC 0'
IRAQ ("Borrower") and INTERNATIYNAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I - - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitut:
an integral part of th is Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreemer
have the meanings a 3cribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendi:
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth o
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of three hundred and fifty million Dollar
($350,000,000), as s uch amount may be converted from time to time through
Currency Conversioa in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of thi
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 t<
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may v ithdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Sectior
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of onc
percent (0.25%) of tie Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter ol
one percent (0.25%) ,:er annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interesI payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall bo determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues f.r a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
-2-
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 1 and November 1 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amouit of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedulc set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrowe. may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding Irom a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by t he Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar fhr which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of tAe proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, wi i hdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pt.y any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05(c)
of the Genera Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declare s its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall ca:Ty out Parts 1 and 6(a) of the Project through the Ministry of
Electricity; Parts 2, 5 a), 5(d).(ii), and 6(b) of the Project through the Ministry of
Municipalities and Public Works; Parts 3, 5(b), 5(c), and 6(c) of the Project
through the Ministry of Construction and Housing; Parts 4, 5(e), and 6(d) of the
Project through the Ministry of Health; and Parts 5(d).(i) and 6(e) of the Project
through the Reconstruction Fund, in accordance with the provisions of Article V
of the General Conditions
3.02. 
Without limitation up on the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrow er and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Projec is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
AR TICLE IV -
TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Doadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE 1 -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Reprosentative is its minister responsible for finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Hay Alaloom
Bab Al Mu'diam
Baghdad, Ira(
5.03. 
The Bank's Address i:;:
International 3ank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Streel, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D1.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at 
c-,4 
ck 
Af ce-
of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF IRAQ
By 
.
Authorized Representative
Name:
Title: 
_______A__ 
X 
,ACV.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
IL
Title:
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project i; to support the Borrower in the reconstruction of damaged
infrastructure and the restoration of public services delivery in Targeted Municipal Areas.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Restoring Electricity Infrastructure and Connectivity
(a) 
Acquisition of equipment for the repair and reconstruction of damaged electricity
distribution and tra-smission infrastructure in selected areas ("Electricity
Subprojects"); and
(b) 
provision of technicil assistance for the supervision of the implementation of
Electricity Subprojec s.
Part 2: Restoring Municipall Waste, Water and Sanitation Services
Development and implementation of a program of subprojects and interventions for the
repair, reconstruction and relabilitation of water, wastewater, and solid waste services
infrastructure in selected area s ("Water and Sanitation Subprojects"), including through:
(i) carrying out of a water and sanitation damage and needs assessment and identification
of Water and Sanitation Subprojects; (ii) preparation of detailed plans and designs for
Water and Sanitation Subprojects; and (iii) provision of technical assistance for the
supervision and implementation of Water and Sanitation Subprojects.
Part 3: Restoring 
Transport 
Infrastructure 
and 
Developing 
a 
Housing
Reconstruction Subsidy Scheme
Transport Infrastructure
(a) 
Development and implementation of a program of subprojects and interventions
for the repair, recon struction and rehabilitation of transport infrastructure
(including road asset; and bridges) in selected areas ("Transport Infrastructure
Subprojects"), including through: (a) carrying out of a transport damage and needs
assessment 
and 
identification 
of Transport 
Infrastructure 
Subprojects;
(b) preparation of detailed plans and designs for Transport Infrastructure
Subprojects; and (c) provision of technical assistance for the supervision and
implementation of Tr; insport Infrastructure Subprojects.
Housing
(b) 
Provision of technica. assistance for the design of a scheme for the provision of
housing reconstructioi subsidies (the "Housing Reconstruction Subsidy Scheme").
-6-
Part 4: Restoring Health Services
(a) 
Acquisition of mobi le clinics and mobile hospitals, medical equipment and
ambulances in select d areas.
Part 5: Technical Assistancte
Provision of technical assistar.ce for:
(a) 
the development of: ([) urban development and strategic investment master plans
for selected municipa tlities and the carrying of related public consultation and
awareness programs; and (ii) integrated solid waste management plans and
designs;
(b) 
the development 
ol': 
(i) railway infrastructure rehabilitation and safety
improvement plans ai id designs; and (ii) cross-governorate expressway corridors
plans and designs;
(c) 
the development of a pilot for the planning and design of infrastructure
development at the gevernorate level;
(d) 
development and imp ementation of:
(i) 
state/citizen t:,ust-building and reconciliation promotion initiatives; and
(ii) 
a strategy for the sustainable management of physical cultural resources,
including th ough: the carrying out of a damage assessment and
identification of priority interventions; development of a reconstruction
and restoratic n strategy (including related guidelines and standards); and
design and p -eparation for the establishment of a fund to support the
management :)f physical cultural resources; and
(e) 
carrying out of a heath sector needs assessment and development of a mid- to
long-term health care services master plan.
Part 6: Project Managemeni:, Sensitization, and Monitoring and Evaluation
Provision of support for Project implementation and management, including safeguards,
procurement and financial man agement, community sensitization and communication, and
monitoring and evaluation for: (a) the PMT of MoE; (b) PMT of MoMPW; (c) PMT of
MoCH; (d) PMT of MoH; andI (e) the PCU.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementailion and Institutional Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
Project Coordinating Unit. The Borrower shall maintain, throughout the period of
implementation of thc Project, a Project Coordination Unit for the Reconstruction
Fund under the Courcil of Ministers, with composition, terms of reference and
resources satisfactor) to the Bank. The PCU shall be responsible for, inter alia:
coordination and facilitation of Project implementation (including among the
PMTs), and providing overall strategy, guidance, and monitoring and evaluation
for the Project.
2. 
Project Management Teams
(a) 
The Borrowe shall establish, by no later than July 30, 2015, and thereafter
maintain within each of MoE, MoMPW, RBD of MoCH, and MoH
throughout the period of implementation of the Project, a Project
Management ream, under the direction of qualified management provided
with sufficiert resources, and staffed with competent technical and other
personnel in zi dequate numbers including, among others an environmental
specialist, a s3cial specialist, and financial management specialist, and a
procurement specialist, in each case with qualifications, experience and
under terms cf reference satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) 
Each PMT shall be responsible for, inter alia: identification and
implementation of Project activities and Subprojects; Project management
and planning; fiduciary and safeguards management; and reporting for its
respective Pait of the Project.
B. 
Project Implementailion Manual
1 .
The Borrower shall, by no later than thirty (30) days after the Effective Date,
prepare and adopt a Project Implementation Manual, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bai k.
2. 
The Borrower shall, aad cause each of MoE, MoMPW, RBD of MoCH, and MoH
to: (a) carry out the Project in accordance with the PIM, and in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) not amend, revise or waive, nor allow to be
amended, revised, or waived, the provisions of the PIM or any part thereof without
the prior written agreement of the Bank.
-8-
3. 
In the event of any inconsistency between the PIM and this Agreement, the
provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti -Corruption Guidelines.
D. 
Sub-projects
1. 
The Borrower shall, t irough the PMTs, select Subprojects for financing under the
Project in accordance with eligibility criteria and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank and further elaborated in the PIM, which shall include the following:
(a) 
No proposed Subproject shall be eligible for financing unless the Borrower
shall have d -termined, on the basis of an appraisal carried out in
accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Bank and elaborated in the
PIM, that the proposed Subproject has fulfilled the requirements of the
PIM and any applicable Safeguard Instrument.
(b) 
Without limitation on the foregoing, if, pursuant to the ESMF and/or RPF,
one or more Safeguard Instruments for the Subproject are required, such
proposed Sub project shall not be eligible for financing under the Project
until such Safeguard Instruments have been prepared and approved by the
Bank and all measures required to be carried out in accordance with
Section I.F. of this Schedule prior to commencement of the activities
covered by th- Safeguard Instruments have been carried out.
E. 
Housing Reconstruci:ion Subsidy Scheme
The Borrower shall: (a) by no later than eighteen (18) months after the Effective Date,
prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its review and comment, a draft of the Housing
Reconstruction Subsidy Schere, and afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Bank on said draft Scheme; and (b) thereafter, by no later than twenty-four
(24) months after the Effectivi.: Date, ensure that the said Scheme is finalized and adopted,
taking into account the conu aents and views of the Bank, and in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
F. 
Safeguards
I. 
The Borrower shall mplement the Project in accordance with the Safeguard
Instruments, and shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provision
of any of the Safeguard Instruments, without the prior written approval of the Bank
and subject to comp iance with applicable consultation and public disclosure
requirements of the Bank.
-9-
2. 
Without limitation upon the foregoing, the Borrower shall, no later than three (3)
months after the Effective Date, prepare and disclose in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank an ESMF ai id a RPF, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall ei isure that adequate information on the implementation of the
Safeguards Instrumeiits is suitably included in the Project Reports referred to in
Section II.A of thi. Schedule, including details of: (a) measures taken in
furtherance of the Sa 5eguards Instruments; (b) conditions, if any, which interfere
or threaten to interfere with the smooth implementation of the Safeguards
Instruments; and (c) -emedial measures taken or required to be taken to address
such conditions.
4. 
The Borrower shall tnsure that: (a) all measures identified and described in the
Safeguards Instrumei its are taken in a timely manner, and (b) that the tender
documents and each -ontract for civil works to be carried out under the Project
includes the obligation of the relevant contractor to comply with the relevant
Safeguards Instrumerts applicable to such civil works commissioned or awarded
pursuant to said contr act.
5. 
Without limitation up on the foregoing, the Borrower shall:
(a) 
prior to comn encing Minor Civil Works for any activity under the Project
to be carried out prior to the preparation of the ESMF in accordance with
Section I.F.2 of this Schedule: (i) when required under the ESAP, prepare,
adopt and dis,lose appropriate Simplified ESMP(s) in accordance with the
ESAP, such Simplified ESMP(s) to be in form and substance satisfactory
to the Bank; and (ii) when required under the Simplified ESMPs, carry out
specific publ: c consultation in form and in substance satisfactory to the
Bank;
(b) 
prior to comnencing civil works for any activity under the Project and
when required under the ESMF, prepare, adopt and disclose appropriate
ESIA(s), ESMP(s) and/or MWMP(s), as applicable, in accordance with
the ESMF, such ESIA(s), ESMP(s), and MWMP(s) to be in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank;
(c) 
prior to comr nencing civil works for any activity under the Project and
when required under the ESIAs, ESMPs, the RAPs, and the MWMPs,
carry out specific public consultation in form and in substance satisfactory
to the Bank; a:nd
(d) 
prior to commencement of civil works for any activity of the Project
involving involuntary resettlement or involuntary acquisition of land,
prepare, adopt, disclose and implement appropriate RAP or RAPs, as the
case may be, for compensation or resettlement, in accordance with the
-10-
RPF, such RAP or RAPs to be in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank.
6. 
In the event that any provision of the Safeguards Instruments shall conflict with
any provision under this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
7. 
The Borrower shall: (a) by no later than three (3) months after the Effective Date,
establish and thereaft r maintain throughout the period of implementation of the
Project, a grievance redress mechanism, satisfactory to the Bank, for the
management of complaints related to the Project; and (b) ensure that adequate
measures, satisfactory, to the Bank, are put in place to ensure that all aspects of
Project implementation are carried out in an inclusive, non-discriminatory and
participatory manner.
8. 
The Borrower shall easure that all terms of reference for any technical assistance
and studies to be carried out under the Project are prepared in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank and taking into account appropriate environmental and
social safeguards measures.
9. 
The Borrower shall et sure that any area in which civil works under the Project will
be implemented has been cleared of Explosive Remnants of War, and to that end,
prior to commencing civil works for any activity under the Project, the Borrower
shall provide a confir nation, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, that
the area in which suct civil works will be implemented has been declared safe and
clear of Explosive Re mants of War.
Section II. 
Project Monitorine Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall monitor ind evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project
Reports in accordance with tie provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and
on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period
of one (1) calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45)
days after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish tc the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of
each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering
the quarter, in form ai d substance satisfactory to the Bank.
-11-
3. 
The Borrower shall have the Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower.
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than si x (6) months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1 .
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services rtequired for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Serviccs. All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the pioceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forilh or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with t [he provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capi :alized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement method, or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guideliies, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The follow ing methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) Limited International
Bidding; (b) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set
forth in paragraph 3 below; (c) Shopping; (d) procurement under Framework
Agreements in accordance with procedures which have been found acceptable to
the Bank; (e) Direct Contracting; (f) Force Account; (g) Procurement from UN
Agencies; and (h) Community Participation procedures which have been found
acceptable to the Banc.
-12-
3. 
Additional Provisions for National Competitive Bidding. The following
additional provisions shall apply to the procurement of goods, works and non-
consulting services through National Competitive Bidding:
(a) 
Standard bid(.ing documents approved by the Bank shall be used.
(b) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one (1) widely circulated
national daily newspaper and bidding documents shall be made available
to prospectivc bidders, at least twenty eight (28) days prior to the deadline
for the submi!;sion of bids.
(c) 
Bids shall no: be invited on the basis of percentage premium or discount
over the estin ated cost.
(d) 
Bidding docu ments shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all
who are willi: ig to pay the required fee.
(e) 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no preference of
any kind shall be given to national bidders.
(f) 
Qualification criteria (in case pre-qualification has not been carried out)
shall be stated in the bidding documents, and if a registration process is
required, a fo'eign firm determined to be the lowest evaluated bidder shall
be a given reasonable opportunity to register without any hindrance, i.e.
no non-regist:-ation status should be considered as a non-eligibility-to-bid
criterion.
(g) 
Bidders may deliver bids, at their election, either in person or by courier
service or by nail.
(h) 
Bids shall be open in public in one place preferably immediately, but no
later than one (1) hour, after the deadline for submission of bids.
(i) 
Evaluation o' bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria
disclosed in t lie bidding documents, in a format, and within the specified
period, agreedi with the Bank.
j) 
Bids shall no: be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an
official estimate without the prior concurrence of the Bank.
(k) 
Split award or lottery in award of contracts shall not be carried out. When
two or more bidders quote the same price, an investigation shall be made
to determine ainy evidence of collusion, following which: (i) if collusion is
determined, the parties involved shall be disqualified and the award shall
then be made to the next lowest evaluated and qualified bidder; and (ii) if
-13-
no evidence ,f collusion can be confirmed, then fresh bids shall be invited
after receivin the concurrence of the Bank.
(1) 
Contracts sh, ill be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders within the
initial period of bid validity. Extension of bid validity may be sought only
under exceptional circumstances.
(m) 
Extension of validity shall not be allowed without the prior concurrence
of the Bank: (i) for the first request for extension if it is longer than eight
(8) weeks; arid (ii) for all subsequent requests for extensions irrespective
of the period.
(n) 
Negotiations shall be not allowed with the lowest evaluated or any other
bidders
(o) 
Re-bidding siall not be carried out without the Bank's prior concurrence.
(p) 
All contractors or suppliers shall provide performance security as
indicated in the contract documents. A contractor's or a supplier's
performance security shall apply to a specific contract under which it was
furnished.
(q) 
A provision shall be included in bidding documents and in contracts
financed by tLe Loan requiring bidders, suppliers and contractors to permit
the Bank to inspect their accounts and records and other documents
relating to the bid submission and contract performance and to have them
audited by auditors appointed by the Bank.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following
methods, other thar Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; 
(d) Selection based on Consultants'
Qualifications; (e) Sirigle-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Selection of UN
Agencies; (g) Selection of consultants under Indefinite Delivery Contract or Price
Agreement; (h) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants; and (i) Single-source
procedures for the Se ection of Individual Consultants.
-14-
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bnk shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"World Bank DisburE ement Guidelines for Projects", dated May 2006, as revised
from time to time by 1 he Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant
to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
-15-
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, non-consulting servi:es, 
70,000,000 
100%
consultants' services, and Operating
Costs for Parts 1 and 6(a) of he Project
(2) Goods, works, non-consulting services, 
62,000,000 
100%
consultants' services, and Operating
Costs, for Parts 2, 5(a), 5(d).i ii), and
6(b) of the Project
(3) Goods, works, non-consulting services, 
137,000,000 
100%
consultants' services, and Operating
Costs, for Parts 3, 5(b), 5(c), and 6(c) of
the Project
(4) Goods, non-consulting services, 
40,100,000 
100%
consultants services, and Opcrating
Costs for Parts 4, 5(e), and 61 d) of the
Project
(5) Goods, non-consulting services, 
9,200,000 
100%
consultants' services, Operating Costs,
and Training and Workshops for Parts
5(d).(i), and 6(e) of the Projei-t
(6) Unallocated 
30,825,000 
100%
(7) Front-end Fee 
875,000 
Amount payable
pursuant to Section
2.03 of this Agreemen
in accordance with
Section 2.07(b) of the
General Conditions
(8) Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar 
0 
Amount due pursuant c
premium 
Section 2.08(c) of th s
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
350,000,000
-16-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to ar. aggregate amount not to exceed fifteen million Dollars
($15,000,000) may b, made for payments made prior to this date but on or after
January 1, 2015, for Iligible Expenditures under Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), and
(5).
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2020.
-17-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table .ets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the fi-st Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multipl ing: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to 1be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Pay ment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
November 1, 2020 
4.32%
May 1, 2021 
4.38%
November 1, 2021 
4.45%
May 1, 2022 
4.52%
November 1, 2022 
4.59%
May 1, 2023 
4.65%
November 1, 2023 
4.72%
May 1, 2024 
4.79%
November 1, 2024 
4.87%
May 1, 2025 
4.94%
November 1, 2025 
5.01%
May 1, 2026 
5.09%
November 1, 2026 
5.16%
May 1, 2027 
5.24%
November 1, 2027 
5.32%
May 1, 2028 
5.40%
November 1, 2028 
5.48%
May 1, 2029 
5.56%
November 1, 2029 
5.65%
May 1, 2030 
5.86%
-18-
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payme nt Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balancie as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Instu llment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such an ounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn anld outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Dale commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, :he amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Prinzipal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immed-ately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determ nes in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
-19-
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loen Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
-20-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Affected Person" mians a person who as a result of: (a) the involuntary taking
of land under the Proj ect is affected in any of the following ways: (i) relocation or
loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources
or means of livelihood, whether or not the affected person must move to another
location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and
protected areas suffer3 adverse impacts on his or her livelihood.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Giuidelines" 
means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud an. Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", iated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
3. 
"Category" means a (ategory set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
4. 
"Consultant Guidelin es" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IERD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers", dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
5. 
"Council of Ministers" means the Borrower's Council of Ministers, or any
successor thereto.
6. 
"Electricity Subproject" means a subproject referred to in Part 1 of the Project
7. 
"ESAP" means the E avironmental and Social Action Plan, dated June 11, 2015,
setting forth a time-bound bound plan for the steps and the sequential planning and
coordination of project activities and the preparation by the Borrower of the
Safeguards Instruments; as such plan may be amended from time to time with the
prior written agreeme at of the Bank.
8. 
"ESIA" means an environmental and social impact assessment to be prepared by
the Borrower pursuaia to the ESMF, in each case identifying and assessing the
potential environmen:al and social impacts of a proposed Project activity; and
"ESIAs" means more than one such ESIA, as such ESIAs may be amended from
time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
9. 
"ESMF" means the environmental and social management framework to be
prepared by the Borrower in accordance with Section I.F.2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, setting fo th the modalities for environmental and social screening for
the Project, and outlin:ng environmental and social implementation, mitigation and
monitoring measures and procedures, including procedures for the management of
chance 
finds of physical 
cultural resources, 
and the preparation 
and
-21-
implementation of ESIAs and ESMPs; as such ESMF may be amended from time
to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
10. 
"ESMP" means an environmental and social management plan to be prepared by
the Borrower pursuant to the ESMF, in each case setting forth appropr[ate
mitigation, monitoriig and institutional measures designed to mitigate the
potential adverse environmental and social impacts of a proposed Project activity;
and "ESMPs" means more than one such ESMP, as such ESMPs may be amended
from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
11. 
"Explosive Remnants of War" means explosive remnants of war, including but not
limited to, unexploded ordnance, improvised explosive devices and landmines.
12. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development Genera [ Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set fort in Section II of this Appendix.
13. 
"Housing Reconstruc.ion Subsidy Scheme" means the scheme to be developed by
the Borrower referred to in Part 3(b) of the Project and Section I.E of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
14. 
"Ministry of Constnction and Housing" and "MoCH" mean the Borrower's
Ministry of Construct on and Housing, or any successor thereto.
15. 
"Ministry of Electrici y" and "MoE" mean the Borrower's Ministry of Electricity,
or any successor thercto.
16. 
"Ministry of Finance" and "MoF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance, or
any successor thereto.
17. 
"Ministry of Health" and "MoH" mean the Borrower's Ministry of Health, or any
successor thereto.
18. 
"Ministry of Munic:.palities and Public Works" and "MoMPW" mean the
Borrower's Ministry of Municipalities and Public Works or any successor thereto.
19. 
"Minor Civil Works" means small scale civil works with low environmental and
social impacts, required to effect minor repairs to roads, water distribution
networks, and electricity distribution networks, and meeting the eligibility criteria
for minor civil works set forth in the ESAP.
20. 
"MWMP" means a amedical waste management plan to be prepared by the
Borrower pursuant to the ESMF, setting forth the measures to be taken for the
management and safe handling of medical waste; and "MWMPs" means more than
one such MWMP, as such MWMPs may be amended from time to time with the
prior written agreemeat of the Bank.
-22-
21. 
"Operating Costs" mcans the reasonable costs incurred by the PCU and the PMTs
on account of Proj ect implementation including costs for communication;
translation and inter,retation; printing; advertising; office supplies; banking
charges; Project related travel (including per diems, accommodation and
transportation); vehicle rental and fuel; postal fees; and other miscellaneous costs
directly associated with Project implementation subject to approval by the Bank,
but excluding salarie:., and allowances of the Borrower's civil servants or other
regular government st aff.
22. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers", dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
23. 
"Procurement Plan" n eans the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
June 11, 2015, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines
and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
24. 
"Project Coordination Unit" and "PCU" mean the Borrower's Project coordination
unit, referred to in Section I.A. 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
25. 
"Project Implementat.on Manual" and "PIM" mean the Project implementation
manual, to be prepartd and adopted by the Borrower pursuant to Section I.B of
Schedule 2 to this AIreement, containing detailed arrangements and procedures
for: (a) institutional coordination and day-to-day execution of the Project;
(b) Project budgeting, disbursement and financial management; (c) procurement;
(d) monitoring, eva uation, reporting and communication; 
(e) social and
environmental safeguards including gender and social inclusion; (f) detailed
procedures and arn ingements, including eligibility criteria and selection
procedures, for Subpr.jects; and (g) such other administrative, financial, technical
and organizational ai rangements and procedures as shall be required for the
Project.
26. 
"Project Management Team" and "PMT" mean a Project management team to be
established by the Borrower pursuant to Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement; and "Project Management Teams" and "PMTs" means more than one
such team.
27. 
"RAP" means a resettlement action plan or abbreviated resettlement action plan to
be prepared by the Borrower pursuant to the RPF, describing, for a proposed
Project activity, the compensation and other resettlement assistance to be provided,
consultation to be conducted with Affected Persons about acceptable alternatives,
institutional responsibilities for the implementation, procedures for grievance
redress, and arrangemints for monitoring and evaluation; and "RAPs" means more
-23-
than one such RAP, is such RAPs may be amended from time to time with the
prior written agreeme nt of the Bank.
28. 
"Reconstruction Fund" means the Borrower's Reconstruction Fund for Areas
Affected by Terrorist 'c Operations, established and operating pursuant to Article
28 of the General Feceral Budget Law for Fiscal Year 2015, Law No. 2 of 2015,
of the laws of the Borrower; or any successor thereto.
29. 
"Roads and Bridges Directorate" and "RBD" mean the Roads and Bridges
Directorate under the MoCH, responsible for the management of the Borrower's
roads and bridges ass .fts, or any successor thereto.
30. 
"RPF" means the res,ttlement policy framework to be prepared by the Borrower
in accordance with Section I.F.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, setting forth the
guidelines, procedures, timetables and other specifications for the provision of
compensation, rehabi itation and resettlement assistance to Affected Persons, and
for the preparation aid implementation of RAPs; as such RPF may be amended
from time to time wit li the prior written agreement of the Bank.
31. 
"Safeguard Instrumei its" means, collectively, the ESAP, ESMF, the ESIAs, the
ESMPs, the Simplif ed ESMPs, the RPF, the RAPs, and the MWMPs; and
"Safeguard Instrument" means any one such instrument.
32. 
"Simplified ESMP" means a simplified environmental and social management
plan to be prepared by the Borrower pursuant to the ESAP, in each case setting
forth appropriate mit.gation, monitoring and institutional measures designed to
mitigate the potential adverse environmental and social impacts of proposed Minor
Civil Works; and "Simplified ESMPs" means more than one such Simplified
ESMP, as such Simplified ESMPs may be amended from time to time with the
prior written agreeme -t of the Bank.
33. 
"Subprojects" means. collectively, Electricity Subprojects, Water and Sanitation
Subprojects, and Transport Infrastructure Subprojects.
34. 
"Targeted Municipal Areas" means the cities of Tikrit, Dour, Al-Alam and Al-
Dalooeyya located in the Salah Al-Din Governorate, and Jalula, As-Sadiya and Al-
Aazeem in Diyala Governorate, in each case in the territory of the Borrower, and
any other areas as may be agreed to by the Borrower and the Bank.
35. 
"Training and Workilhops" means the reasonable costs of training, seminars,
workshops, conferences and study tours, including: (a) the fees of training
institutions and cours.s; (b) domestic and international travel costs, lodging costs,
and subsistence/per diem allowances for both trainers and trainees; (c) the rental
of training facilities; and (d) preparation, purchase or reproduction of training
materials.
-24-
36. 
"Transport Infrastruclure Subproject" means a subproject referred to in Part 3(a)
of the Project.
37. 
"Water and Sanitatioa Subproject" means a subproject referred to in Part 2 of the
Project.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hcreby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Frort-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. From -end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrowe:: shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan I lalance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of t] le Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by tl e Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modilied, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitmen 
Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
