OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
SCF-PPCR LOAN NUMBER TF019396
Strategic Climate Fund
Pilot Program for Climate Resilience
Loan Agreement
(Additional Financing for Regional Disaster Vulnerability Reduction Project)
between
GRENADA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Entity of the Pilot Program for Climate Resilience under
the Strategic Climate Fund
Dated 
2 
-
,& 
,2015
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
SCF-PPCR LOAN NUMBER TF019396
STRATEGIC CLIMATE FUND LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated f w 
2- , 2015, entered into between:
GRENADA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ("World Bank"), acting not in its individual capacity but solely in
its capacity as an implementing entity of the Pilot Program for Climate Resilience
("PPCR") under the Strategic Climate Fund ("SCF") for the purpose of providing an
additional loan for activities related to Parts A, B and D of the Original Project (as defined
in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Project is co-financed by a SCF Grant.
The Borrower and the World Bank hereby agree as follows:
Article I
Standard Conditions; Definitions
1.01. 
The Standard Conditions for Loans Made by the World Bank Out of the Climate
Investment Funds, dated February 18, 2014 ("Standard Conditions"), constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in this
Agreement.
Article II
Loan
2.01. 
The World Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in this Agreement, the amount of three million eight hundred
thousand United States Dollars ($3,800,000) ("Loan"), to assist in financing the
project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Loan is funded out of the resources made available to the World Bank as an
implementing entity of the SCF. In accordance with Section 3.02 of the Standard
Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement), the World Bank's
payment obligations in connection with this Agreement are limited to the amount of
funds made available to it from the SCF, and the Borrower's right to withdraw the
Loan proceeds is subject to the availability of such funds.
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Borrower on the Withdrawn Loan Balance
shall be equal to one-tenth of one percent (1/10 of 1%) per annum.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the repayment
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is USD.
Article III
The Project
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of
Article II of the Standard Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Article IV
Effectiveness; Termination
4.01. 
This Agreement shall not become effective until evidence satisfactory to the World
Bank has been furnished to the World Bank that the following conditions have
been satisfied:
(a) 
The SCF Grant Agreement has been executed and delivered and all
conditions precedent to the effectiveness of said SCF Grant Agreement or
to the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals under said SCF Grant
Agreement (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement) have been
fulfilled.
(b) 
The Borrower has updated the Project Operational Manual, in form and
substance satisfactory to the World Bank.
4.02. 
As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 4.01, there shall be
furnished to the World Bank an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the World Bank
of counsel acceptable to the World Bank or, if the World Bank so requests, a
certificate satisfactory to the World Bank of a competent official of the Borrower,
showing that on behalf of the Borrower, this Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on its behalf and is legally binding upon it in
accordance with its terms.
2
4.03. 
Except as the Borrower and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, this Agreement
shall enter into effect on the date upon which the World Bank dispatches to the
Borrower notice of its acceptance of the evidence required pursuant to Section 4.01
("Effective Date"). If, before the Effective Date, any event has occurred which
would have entitled the World Bank to suspend the right of the Borrower to make
withdrawals from the Grant Account if this Agreement had been effective, the World
Bank may postpone the dispatch of the notice referred to in this Section until such
event (or events) has (or have) ceased to exist.
4.04. 
Termination for Failure to Become Effective. This Agreement and all obligations of
the parties under it shall terminate if it has not entered into effect by the date ninety
(90) days after the date of this Agreement (the "Effectiveness Deadline"), unless the
World Bank, after consideration of the reasons for the delay, establishes a later date
for the purpose of this Section. The World Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower
of such later date.
Article V
Borrower's Representative; Addresses
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative referred to in Section 10.02 of the Standard
Conditions is the Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard Conditions
is:
Ministry of Finance
Financial Complex
The Carenage
St. George's
GRENADA
Facsimile:
1-473-440-4115
5.03. 
The World Bank's Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard Conditions
is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423 (MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI)
3
AGREED at 
sVd- i' 
C ieb, 
b. 
, as of the day and year first
above written.
GRENADA
By
Authorized Repres tative
ame: 
nA :r 
I
ITitle: i3~ 
4-M
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an implementing entity of the Pilot Program
for Climate Resilience under the Strategic Climate
Fund
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
hop 
7 f- 
-
L
Title: 
O (,I ly 
- rJV
4
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to measurably reduce vulnerability to natural
hazards and climate change impacts in the Borrower's territory and in the Eastern
Caribbean Sub-region.
The Project consists of the Original Project as amended below:
Part A: Prevention and Adaptation Investments
I. 
Carrying out of selected infrastructure investments, and related supporting studies,
including: 
(a) identified community infrastructure; 
(b) rehabilitation and
construction of bridges; (c) improving resilience to climate risks in water supply
systems; (d) pre-engineering studies and design for a flood mitigation system; (e)
fiber optic upgrades; and (f) river defense systems such as improvement of river
banks, concrete retaining walls, realignment of river beds, and installation of
gabions, all through the provision of works, technical advisory services, and
acquisition of goods.
2. 
Pre-engineering studies, design and retrofitting of selected public buildings to
improve disaster resilience, and supporting studies, including: (a) rehabilitation of
selected school buildings; and (b) rehabilitation of selected public accommodation
for the elderly, all through the provision of works, technical advisory services, and
acquisition of goods.
Part B: Regional Platforms for Hazard and Risk Evaluation and Applications for Improved
Decision Making
1. 
Building the regional capacity for assessment of natural risks and integration of
such assessment into policy and decision making process for the development of
investments, disaster risk mitigation and disaster response across sectors, through
the provision of technical advisory services, Training and acquisition of goods.
2. 
Facilitating regional collaboration including knowledge sharing and learning
process to develop and apply construction standards and methods for critical public
infrastructure and urban flood mitigation and strengthen regional collaboration for
urban and flood risk reduction, and forestry management, all through the provision
of technical advisory services, Training and acquisition of goods.
3. 
Reducing the risk for regional interconnectivity and carrying out related supporting
studies, including improving the international airport to maintain an adequate
emergency response capability and to comply with the international operational
standards, all through the provision of works, technical advisory services, Training
and acquisition of goods.
5
4. 
Carrying out activities relating to data collection, data management, and capacity
building, including: (a) collecting baseline data in relation to the Borrower's
physical environment; (b) improving the Borrower's hydro-meteorological data
collection network and data management system; (c) analyzing data and providing
training in data modeling; and (d) capacity building in forest management,
including rehabilitating nurseries and purchasing equipment for improvement of
forestry management.
Part C: Natural Disaster Response Investments
Carrying out of Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction Subprojects under an
agreed action plan of activities (Agreed Action Plan of Activities) designed as a mechanism
to implement the Borrower's rapid response to an Emergency.
Part D: Project Management and Implementation Support
Strengthening and developing the institutional capacity for Project management,
including: (a) preparation of designs and tender documents; (b) preparation of Project
reports; (c) processing of contracts and tender evaluation; (d) coordination of participating
line ministries; (e) supervision of the quality of works; (f) training of staff in Project
management and implementation support; (g) capacity building for accreditation to the
United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) Climate
Adaptation Fund; (h) related activities on Project management and implementation; (i)
capacity building of the PCU in relation to monitoring and evaluation; and (j) provision of
training to PCU staff and the staff of relevant key agencies in Project management,
implementation support, coordination of disaster risk management and climate resilience
activities under the Project, all through the provision of technical advisory services,
Training, Operating Costs and acquisition of goods.
Part E: Payment of CCRIF Insurance Premiums
Provision of financing for the payment of 100 percent of the Borrower's annual
catastrophe risk insurance premiums for the period May 30, 2013 to May 30, 2015 of its
participation in the CCRIF.
6
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arran2ements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
Project Steering Committee
(a) 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Steering Committee is
maintained at all times during the implementation of the Project, with a
composition, mandate, and in form and substance satisfactory to the World
Bank.
(b) 
Without limitation to sub-paragraph (a) immediately above, the Borrower
shall ensure that the Project Steering Committee will be responsible for
providing policy guidance to ensure prompt and efficient implementation
of the Project, including, inter alia: (i) reviewing progress made towards
achieving the Project's objective; (ii) facilitating the coordination of
Project activities, and making recommendations for removal of any
obstacles to the implementation of the Project; and (iii) providing
comments on reports and reviews prepared by the Project Coordination
Unit under the Project.
2. 
Project Coordination Unit
(a) 
The Borrower shall maintain, at all times during the implementation of the
Project, a project coordination unit (the Project Coordination Unit or PCU)
within the Borrower's Ministry of Finance, with functions, staffing and
resources satisfactory to the World Bank.
(b) 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section I.A. 1 of this Schedule, the
PCU shall be responsible for day-to-day administration of overall
planning, coordination, the technical, fiduciary (i.e. procurement and
financial management), environmental and social safeguards compliance,
coordination, monitoring, evaluation, reporting and communication of the
activities under the Project, all in accordance with the provisions of this
Agreement and the Project Operational Manual.
7
B. 
Project Operational Manual
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Operational Manual, which shall include, inter alia, detailed arrangements
and procedures for: (a) institutional coordination and day-to-day execution of the
Project; (b) Project budgeting, disbursement and financial management; (c)
procurement; (d) environmental and social safeguard guidelines; (e) monitoring,
evaluation, reporting and communication; and (f) such other administrative,
financial, technical and organizational arrangements and procedures as shall be
required for the Project.
2. 
Notwithstanding paragraph I immediately above, in case of any conflict between
the arrangements and procedures set out in the Project Operational Manual and the
provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
3. 
The Borrower shall not amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any provision of
the Project Operational Manual without the prior written agreement of the World
Bank.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption in
Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006
and revised in January 2011 ("Anti-Corruption Guidelines").
D. 
Environmental and Social Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
Environmental Management Framework (EMF), and the Resettlement Policy
Framework (RPF), respectively, including the guidelines, rules and procedures
defined in said EMF and RPF. To this end, the Borrower shall, specifically take
the following actions in a manner acceptable to the World Bank:
(a) 
if an environmental management plan or similar safeguard instrument is
required on the basis of the EMF: (i) such environmental management plan
or similar safeguard instrument shall be prepared in accordance with the
requirements of the EMF, disclosed locally and furnished to the World
Bank for approval; and (ii) if applicable, the rehabilitation, retrofitting or
construction activity shall be carried out in accordance with such
environmental management plan or similar safeguard instrument as
approved by the World Bank; and
8
(b) 
if a resettlement action plan is required on the basis of the Resettlement
Policy Framework: (i) said resettlement action plan shall be prepared in
accordance with the requirements of the Resettlement Policy Framework,
disclosed locally and furnished to the World Bank for approval; and (ii)
no works for rehabilitation, retrofitting or construction shall commence
until: (A) all measures required to be taken under said resettlement action
plan have been taken in accordance with the terms of said plan and in a
manner acceptable to the World Bank; and (B) the Borrower has furnished
to the World Bank a report in form and substance satisfactory to the World
Bank, on the status of compliance with the requirements of said
resettlement action plan.
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that all measures required for carrying out any
environmental assessment or similar safeguard instrument, and any resettlement
action plan are taken in a timely manner.
3. 
The Borrower shall include in the Project Reports referred to in Section II.A of this
Schedule adequate information on the implementation of the EMF, the RPF, any
environmental management plan or similar safeguard instrument, and any
resettlement action plan, giving details of:
(a) 
measures taken in furtherance of the EMF, the RPF, any environmental
assessment or similar safeguard instrument, and any resettlement action
plan;
(b) 
conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the smooth
implementation of the EMF, the RPF, any environmental management
plan or similar safeguard instrument, and any resettlement action plan; and
(c) 
remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such conditions
and to ensure the continued efficient and effective implementation of the
EMF, the RPF, any environmental management plan or similar safeguard
instrument, and any resettlement action plan.
4. 
Specific Environmental Covenant for Part B of the Project
The Borrower shall ensure that the terms of reference for any consultancy in
respect of any Project activity for assessment of natural risks or for capacity
building in forest management under Part B of the Project shall be satisfactory to
the Bank following its review thereof and, to that end, such terms of reference shall
duly incorporate the requirements of the Bank's Safeguard Policies then in force,
as applied to the advice conveyed through such technical assistance.
9
E. 
Donor Visibility and Visit
1. 
The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such measures as the World Bank
may reasonably request to identify publicly the donors' support for the Project.
2. 
For the purposes of Section 2.09 of the Standard Conditions, the Borrower shall,
upon the World Bank's request, enable the representatives of the donor(s) to visit
any part of the Borrower's territory for purposes related to the Project.
Section H. 
Project Monitoring. Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports; Completion Report
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators acceptable to the World Bank. Each
Project Report shall cover the period of six calendar months, and shall be furnished
to the World Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period
covered by such report.
2. 
Without limitation to Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a) on or about the date twenty-four (24) months after the Effective Date, submit
to the World Bank a mid-term report, in such detail as the World Bank shall
reasonably request, documenting progress achieved in the carrying out of the
Project during the period preceding the date of the mid-term report, taking into
account the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to Section
II.A.1 of this Schedule, and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof
during the period following such date; and (b) review with the World Bank the
mid-term report, on or about the date one month after its submission, and thereafter
take all measures required to ensure the efficient implementation of the Project and
the achievement of its objectives, based on the conclusions and recommendations
of the mid-term report and the World Bank's views on the matter.
3. 
The Borrower shall prepare the Completion Report in accordance with the
provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions. The Completion Report
shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six months after the Closing
Date.
B. 
Financial Management; Financial Reports; Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that a financial management system is maintained in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard Conditions.
10
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
ensure that interim unaudited financial reports for the Project are prepared and
furnished to the World Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of
each calendar quarter, covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to
the World Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements for the Project audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07(b) of the Standard Conditions.
Each such audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal
year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall
be furnished to the World Bank not later than six months after the end of such
period.
Section HI. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1 .
Procurement and Consultant Guidelines. 
All goods, works and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in:
(a) 
Section I of the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-
consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" published by the World Bank in January 2011
and revised in July 2014 ("Procurement Guidelines"), and Sections I and
IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers"
published by the World Bank in January 2011 and revised in July 2014
("Consultant Guidelines") in the case of consultants' services; and
(b) 
the provisions of this Section III, as the same shall be elaborated in the
procurement plan prepared and updated from time to time by the Borrower
for the Project in accordance with paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines 
and 
paragraph 
1.25 
of the 
Consultant 
Guidelines
("Procurement Plan").
2. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the World Bank of particular
contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
11
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services.
The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be
used for goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) Limited International Bidding; (b) National Competitive
Bidding; (c) Shopping; and (d) Direct Contracting.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following methods,
other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of
consultants' services for those assignments which are specified in the Procurement
Plan: (a) Quality Based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed Budget; (c)
Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications; (d) Least-Cost Selection; (e)
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the
Selection of Individual Consultants; (f) Sole Source Procedures for selection of
firms; and (g) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants
set forth in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
D. 
Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
World Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review
by the World Bank.
12
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of: (a) Article III of the Standard Conditions; (b) this Section; and (c)
such additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the
Borrower (including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects"
dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the World Bank and as made
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocations of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be Financed
Cate2ory 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non- 
3,800,000 
100%
consulting services,
consultants' services,
Operating Costs and
Training under Parts A, B
and D of the Project
TOTAL AMOUNT 
3,800,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2018.
13
SCHEDULE 3
Repayment Schedule
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Loan
repayable
(expressed as a percentage)
On each May 15 and November 15:
commencing November 15, 2025 to and including 
1%
May 15, 2035
commencing November 15, 2035 to and including 
2%
May 15, 2055
14
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
2. 
"CCRIF" means the Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility, an insurance
facility established and operating as a limited liability company under the laws of
the Cayman Islands for the purpose of providing catastrophe risk insurance to
governments in the Caribbean region, including the Borrower's government.
3. 
"Displaced Person" means a person who, on account of the execution of the Project
had or would have their: (i) standard of living adversely affected; or (ii) access to,
or right, title, interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and
grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed,
temporarily or permanently; or (iii) business, occupation, work or place of
residence or habitat adversely affected; and "Displaced Persons" means,
collectively, all such Displaced Persons.
4. 
"Eastern Caribbean Sub-region" means, for the purpose of this Project, the
following countries participating in the Program, namely, Antigua and Barbuda,
Saint Kitts and Nevis, The Commonwealth of Dominica, Saint Lucia, Saint
Vincent and the Grenadines and the Borrower.
5. 
"Emergency" means an Emergency as defined in the Appendix to the Original
Financing Agreement.
6. 
"Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction Subproject" means an Emergency
Recovery and Reconstruction Subproject as defined in the Appendix to the
Original Financing Agreement.
7. 
"Environmental Management Framework" or "EMF" means the Borrower's
framework, acceptable to the World Bank, dated November 2010, and published
on March 18, 2011 and March 21, 2011, respectively, and updated for the purposes
of this Additional Financing on January 30, 2015, and re-disclosed on February
26, 2015, setting forth the modalities for environmental screening and
procedures/actions for the preparation and implementation of environmental
assessments and management plans under the Project, and such term includes all
schedules and annexes to the Environmental Management Framework.
15
8. 
"Operating Costs" means the incremental expenses incurred on account of Project
management, including office rent, leasehold improvements, office furniture,
equipment and supplies, vehicle operation and maintenance, communication and
insurance costs, office administration costs, utilities, travel and per diem,
excluding the salaries of the Borrower's civil service.
9. 
"Original Financing Agreement" means the Financing Agreement for the Original
Project between the Recipient and the International Development Association,
dated September 20, 2011 (Credit No. 4985-GD).
10. 
"Original Loan Agreement" means the SCF-PPCR Loan Agreement for the
Original Project between the Borrower and the World Bank (acting as an
implementing entity of the SCF), dated September 20, 2011 (Loan No. TFO 11131,
and formerly TF010205).
11. 
"Original Project" means the Project which is financed by: (i) International
Development Association (Credit No. 4985-GD); (ii) a SCF loan (Loan No.
TFO 11131, and formerly TF010205); and (iii) a SCF grant (Grant No. TF010204),
and as described in Schedule 1 to the Original Loan Agreement.
12. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
May 3, 2011, as updated on February 5, 2015, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of
the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as
the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of
said paragraphs.
13. 
"Project Coordination Unit" means the coordination unit referred to in Section
I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
14. 
"Project Operational Manual" means the Borrower's manual as updated in June
2013 and February 26, 2015, and referred to in Section 4.01 (b) and Section I.B.1
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
15. 
"Project Steering Committee" means the committee referred to in Section I.A. 1 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
16. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the Borrower's framework,
dated April 2011 and published on April 28, 2011, acceptable to the World Bank,
as updated on January 30, 2015, and re-disclosed on February 26, 2015, setting
forth the modalities for resettlement and compensation of Displaced Persons,
including guidelines for the preparation of the resettlement plans, all under the
Project, as the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the
World Bank.
16
17. 
"Safeguard Policies" means the World Bank's operational policies and procedures
set forth in the World Bank's Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04, 4.09,
4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37, 7.50 and 7.60, as said manual is published under
www.WorldBank.org/opmanual.
18. 
"SCF Grant" means the additional grant provided for the Project under the SCF
Grant Agreement.
19. 
"SCF Grant Agreement" means the grant agreement for the Project between the
Borrower and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, acting
as an implementing entity of the Strategic Climate Fund, dated the same date as
this Agreement, and providing for an additional grant for the Project, as such grant
agreement may be amended from time to time. "SCF Grant Agreement" includes
all appendices, schedules and agreements supplemental to the SCF Grant
Agreement.
20. 
"Training" means the cost associated with the training and workshops approved
by the World Bank, for reasonable expenditures (other than expenditures for
consultants' services), including: (i) travel, room, board and per diem expenditures
incurred by trainers and trainees in connection with their training; (ii) course fees;
(iii) training facility rentals; and (iv) training material preparation, acquisition,
reproduction and distribution expenses.
21. 
"United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) Climate
Adaptation Fund" means the fund established by the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol
on the UNFCCC to finance concrete adaptation projects and programs in
developing countries that are Parties to the Kyoto Protocol.
17
