LOAN NUMBER 8548-DO
Loan Agreement
(Strengthening Management of Public Finances Development Policy Loan)
between
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
, / 2015
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
V 
L- 
-
/I 
, 2015, entered into between DOMINICAN
REPUBLIC ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing financing in support of the
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to provide
this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has already
taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and (b) the Borrower's maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy
framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of sixty million Dollars ($60,000,000),
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement
("Loan").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
in accordance with Section II of Schedule I to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided,
that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the
General Conditions. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are February 1 and August 1 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
2.09. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 of Section II of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.
-2-
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To
this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either
party, exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request; and
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program
or any action taken under the Program.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consist of the following, namely that a
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
significant part of it, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that
the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out
the Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
For the purposes of Section 10.02 of the General Conditions, the Borrower's
Representative who, inter alia, may agree to modification of the provisions of this
Agreement on behalf of the Borrower, through exchange of letters (unless
otherwise determined by the Borrower and the Bank), is its Minister of Finance.
-3-
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministerio de Hacienda de la Rep6blica Dominicana
Av. M6xico 45, Gazcue
Santo Domingo de Guzmin, Distrito Nacional
Rep6blica Dominicana
Facsimile:
809-688-8838
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at 
6y"Is of the day and year first above
written.
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
By
Name: ~,l4L w( f~I
Title: 
I-l4;1 51//ev
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_
Authorized IRepresentative
Name: ______ _____
Title: Acw"N&
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
A. 
Improved flexibility and transparency in the management of public debt
1. 
The Borrower has adopted a Public Debt Law that provides flexibility in
conducting liability management operations, as evidenced by the Borrower's Law
No. 548-14, published in the Official Gazette on December 18, 2014.
2. 
The Borrower's Public Debt Council has established an Inter-Institutional
Technical Committee on Debt charged with the development and implementation
of a coordinated debt management agenda, as evidenced by:
(i) 
Minutes of the Public Debt Council meeting of June 27, 2014 (Acta 01-
2014, resolution VI), which establishes an Inter-Institutional Technical
Committee on Debt charged with the elaboration of a debt management
agenda; and
(ii) 
Minutes of the first meeting of the Inter-Institutional Technical Committee
on Debt of May 15, 2015 (Acta 01-2015).
B. 
Strengthened planning, budgeting, and execution of public expenditures
3. 
The Borrower has initiated the implementation of multiannual, results-based
financing in the health sector, as evidenced by:
(i) 
the Borrower's Law No. 527-14 of November 12, 2014 (National Budget
Law of 2015); and
(ii) 
IFMIS reports documenting the budget commitments that have been made
available to designated Regional Health Services (Servicio Regional de
Salud) for the implementation of the results-based financing agreements
signed in 2013 between the Ministry of Health and Regional Health
Services 
at 
primary 
care 
level 
in 
the 
Borrower's
administrative/geographical Regions I through 5.
-6-
4. 
The Borrower has established a national system for monitoring and evaluation of
public programs with national development objectives, as evidenced by Decree No
267-15, dated September 18, 2015.
5. 
The Borrower has developed an e-procurement portal within the General
Directorate of Public Procurement of the Ministry of Finance in line with
international standards, as evidenced by the letter signed by the Minister of
Finance, dated September 23, 2015, certifying the completion of the software for
the e-procurement portal and its introduction in at least 16 budgetary institutions.
C. 
Enhanced transparency and monitoring in government operations
6. 
The Borrower has established the Inter-Institutional Poverty Committee charged
with the transparent and reliable publication of official poverty statistics, as
evidenced by the Presidential Decree No. 112-15 of April 29, 2015.
7. 
The Borrower has established a mechanism to monitor the progress achieved under
the Education Pact, as evidenced by:
(i) 
Presidential Decree No. 84-15 of April 6, 2015, establishing the
mechanism for monitoring the implementation of the Education Pact; and
(ii) 
Minutes of the Borrower's Economic and Social Council second meeting
of the Plenary Assembly for the Education Pact of June 15, 2015, outlining
the methodology for the application of the monitoring mechanism and the
associated accountability and oversight arrangements.
8. 
The Borrower, through the Ministry of Economy, Planning and Development, has
issued the regulations for the transparent and results-oriented allocation and
management of funds for Non-Profit Organizations, as evidenced by Resolution
11-2015 of September 14, 2015, which regulates the allocation, use, and
monitoring of public funds allocated to the Non-Profit Organizations.
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
may specify by notice to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the
Front-end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the
Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
-7-
Amount of the Loan
Allocated
Allocations 
(expressed in Dollars)
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 
59,850,000
(2) Front-end Fee 
150,000
TOTAL AMOUNT 
60,000,000
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank
is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with
the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
D. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
I. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into
an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and
2. 
the Borrower shall ensure, and shall send written confirmation to the Bank,
that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into this account, an
equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower's budget management
system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
E. 
Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any
time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded
Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an
amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to
the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
F. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is June 30, 2017.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in
paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
February 1,2027 
2.33333%
August 1,2027 
3.00000%
February 1,2028 
3.00000%
August 1,2028 
3.16667%
February 1,2029 
3.33333%
August 1,2029 
3.58333%
February 1,2030 
3.66667%
August 1,2030 
3.83333%
February 1,2031 
2.16667%
August 1,2031 
2.16667%
February 1,2032 
2.66667%
August 1,2032 
2.91667%
February 1,2033 
4.58333%
August 1,2033 
4.75000%
February 1,2034 
4.50000%
August 1,2034 
4.16667%
February 1,2035 
5.16667%
August 1,2035 
4.91667%
February 1,2036 
5.08333%
August 1,2036 
5.50000%
February 1,2037 
5.83333%
August 1,2037 
6.16667%
-9-
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
February 1,2038 
6.66667%
August 1,2038 
6.83333%
Loan Total 
100%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
- 10 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (a) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (b) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
- 11 
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Economic and Social Council" means Consejo Econ6mico y Social, the
Borrower's council for consultation on economic, social and labor matters, as
established by article 251 of the Borrower's Constitution.
2. 
"Education Pact" means the Borrower's Pacto Nacional para la Reforma
Educativa, en la Reptiblica Dominicana (2014-2030), dated April 1, 2014, set forth
pursuant to the Borrower's National Development Strategy 2030 (Law 1-12), and
Decree 228-13, a document reflecting a broad-based consensus among the
Borrower's key stakeholders, and aimed at transforming the education system in
the Borrower's territory.
3. 
"Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
or grant;
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986)
(the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions
to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item
112 
Alcoholic beverages
121 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco
refuse
122 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or
not containing tobacco substitutes)
525 
Radioactive and associated materials
667 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof;
fuel elements (cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear reactors
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery
- 12 
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and
watch cases) and goldsmiths' or
silversmiths' wares (including set
gems)
971 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
agreements to which the Borrower is a party;
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United
Nations; and
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.
4. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
5. 
"IFMIS reports" means official public finances data recorded in the SIGEF.
6. 
"Inter-Institutional Poverty Committee" means Comit Tecnico Interinstitucional
de Medicion de la Pobreza, a committee composed by national institutions and
international donors, created by Decree No. 112-15 of April 29, 2015, and charged
with the elaboration, analysis and dissemination of poverty information.
7. 
"Inter-Institutional 
Technical 
Committee 
on 
Debt" 
means 
Comitj
Interinstitucional de Deuda, a committee composed of technical representatives of
the Central Bank, the Ministry of Economy, Planning, and Development, and the
Ministry of Finance, established by the Public Debt Council to advise on debt
management matters.
- 13 
8. 
"Official Gazette" means the Borrower's Gaceta Oficial, an official publication of
legal enactments.
9. 
"National System for Monitoring and Evaluation" means the system established
by Decree No 267-15, dated September 18, 2015, to monitor the implementation
of the National Development Strategy, adopted by Law No. 1-12 of January 25,
2012.
10. 
"Non-profit Organizations" means the organizations defined in articles 2 and 6 of
Presidential Decree 40-08, of January 16, 2008.
11. 
"Program" means the set of actions, objectives and policies designed to: (i)
improve flexibility and transparency in the management of public debt; (ii)
strengthen planning, budgeting and execution of public expenditures; and (iii)
enhance the transparency and monitoring of government operations, as such
program is set forth or referred to in the letter dated September 23, 2015, from the
Borrower to the Bank, declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of
the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program
during its execution.
12. 
"Public Debt Council" means Consejo de Deuda Puiblica, the Borrower's council
created by Law No. 06-2006 of January 20, 2006 to determine the debt
management strategy of the Borrower's public sector and authorize the financial
agents to participate in public credit operations.
13. 
SIGEF means Sistema de Informaci6n de la Gestidn Financiera, the Borrower's
Integrated Financial Management Information System.
14. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Section II.B
of Schedule I to this Agreement.
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.
- 14 
3. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
accordingly.
4. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement
(the "Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective
dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan
Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-
annually in arrears on each Payment Date."
5. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the subsequent
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.
6. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
7. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above)
is modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until
two years after the Closing Date. 
The Borrower shall enable the Bank's
representatives to examine such records."
8. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above)
is modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
(c) 
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
- 15 
Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their respective
obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Loan."
9. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above.
10. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the remaining paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
11. 
Renumbered paragraph 37 (originally paragraph 36) of the Appendix ("Eligible
Expenditure") is modified to read as follows:
"37. 
"Eligible Expenditure" means any use to which the Loan is put in
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
pursuant to the Loan Agreement."
12. 
Renumbered paragraph 44 (originally paragraph 43) of the Appendix ("Financial
Statements") is deleted in its entirety.
13. 
Renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
14. 
Renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties
to the Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions,
including (but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance,
interest, the Front-end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default
Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a
Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread
Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount
payable by the Borrower."
15. 
Renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
- 16 
16. 
The defined term "Project" in renumbered paragraph 76 (originally paragraph 75)
of the Appendix is modified to read "Program" and its definition is modified to
read as follows (and all references to "Project" throughout these General
Conditions are deemed to be references to "Program"):
"75. 
"Program" means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in
support of which the Loan is made."
- 17 
