LOAN NUMBER 8518-HR
Loan Agreement
(Innovation atd Entrepreneurship Venture Capital Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dai:ed 
, 2015
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8518-HR
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
8 
,2015, between REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
("Borrower") 
and 
INTER NATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I - - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Condit ons (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of t- is Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context r quires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to end to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this A,reement, the amount of twenty million Euros (E20,000,000),
as such amount rr ay be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement
("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to this
Agreement ("Projec:").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to :his Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of 1he Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
not later than sixty (10) days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The Commitment C iarge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Refereice Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the intere:t payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall Ie determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues 'or a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
-2-
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amont of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrow er may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) 
a cl ange of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
am.unt of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Cur -ency;
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any
pori ion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
out, tanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa;
or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
witldrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Ref .rence Rate and the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based
on z Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable Spread, or vice versa;
or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
out,tanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Var able Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate
applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
witi drawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest
Rati Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the
Ref.rence Rate.
(b) 
Any conver -ion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions cf Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declai es its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall 
ause the Project to be carried out by HAMAG-BICRO in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the
Project Agreement.
-3-
3.02. 
Without limitation ipon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through
MoEC, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 2 to thi: Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Eve,it of Suspension consists of the following:
(a) 
The Project Implementing Entity's Legislation has been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely, 
n the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Pro ect
Implementi ig Entity to perform any of its obligations under the Proj ect
Agreement.
(b) 
The Project Implementing Entity shall have failed to comply with any of
its obligatio is under the Subsidiary Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Evei it of Acceleration consists of, namely, that any event specified
in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of thirty
(30) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Con Jition of Effectiveness consists of the following:
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower
(through MoF and MoEC) and Project Implementing Entity in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank;
(b) 
HAMAG-B[CRO has established a Project Implementation Unit ("PIU")
as referred :o in Section I, Part A, paragraph 2 to the Schedule of the
Project Agreement; and
(c) 
The Project Operations Manual, satisfactory to the Borrower (through
MoF and MoEC) and the Bank, has been adopted by HAMAG-BICRO.
5.02. 
The Additional Lega:l Matters consist of the following: namely, that the Subsidiary
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and HAMAG-
BICRO and is leg illy binding upon the Borrower and HAMAG-BICRO in
accordance with its erms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
-4-
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Rerresentative is its Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Adress is:
Ministry of -inance
Katan6ideve 5
10000 Zagrcb
Republic of Croatia
Telex: 
Facsimile:
862-21215 
(385-1) 4922-598
862-21833
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
Internationa Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable addre s: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at Zagreb, Repub ic of Croatia, as of the day and year first above written.
RE IUBLIC OF CROATIA
By
Authorized Representalive
Name: 
3/ 
0 4/o 
c
Title: f7,' 
?c-~/ 
Are
IN1 ERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name:
Title: 
_ 
__
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective oft] ie Project is to strengthen risk capital financing in the territory
of the Borrower for innovative SMEs and Startups.
The Project consi! ts of the following parts:
Part A. 
Pilot Venture Capital Fund
Establishing a Pilot Venture Capital Fund to provide financing to innovative
SMEs and Startups for equity investments (PVC Investments), 
including PVC
Management Operating Cos :s.
Part B. 
Seed Co-Investment Fund
Providing risk car,ital financing for productive purposes, through the Seed Co-
Investment Fund, alongside private co-investors to innovative SMEs and Startups, through
the provision of SCI Sub-fin ancing.
Part C. 
Technical Assistf nee
1. 
Global Adv sory Network: Establishing a network of experts to provide
advice and ;uidance for the implementation of the Pilot Venture Capital
Fund and the Seed Co-Investment Fund.
2. 
Capacity Bilding and Networking: Developing capacity of the main
actors involved in the risk capital financing industry in the territory of the
Borrower ai d strengthening social capital and networks.
3. 
Monitoring and Evaluation: Monitoring and evaluating the use of Project
funds.
4. 
Proiect Mar agement and Audit: Establishing the PIU, providing support
for Project management and implementation, carrying out outreach
activities with respect to Project activities, conducting audits required by
the Project.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrargements
1 
The Borrower, through MoEC, shall cause the Project to be carried out by
HAMAG-BICRO (the "Project Implementing Entity").
2. 
The Borrower, thro,igh MoEC, shall ensure that the Project Implementing Entity
carries out the Project in accordance with this Agreement and the Project
Operations Manual ,md shall ensure that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Project Implementing Entity shall not amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce
any provision of he Project Operations Manual without the prior written
agreement of the Bank.
3. 
(a) 
The Borrower, through MoEC, shall establish, by no later than two months
after the d,,te of this Agreement, and thereafter maintain, throughout
Project imp ementation, a Project Steering Committee responsible for the
coordinatioi 
and supervision of the Project, with membership (as
described ir (b) below) and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
(b) 
The Projec Steering Committee shall include representatives of the
Borrower's MoF, Ministry of Economy, MoEC, Ministry of Science,
Education znd Sports, and Ministry of Regional Development and EU
Funds.
(c) 
The Project Steering Committee shall be chaired by a representative of the
Borrower's MoEC.
B. 
Subsidiary Agreen ent
1 .
To facilitate the can ying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds
of the Loan availa!le to the Project Implementing Entity under a subsidiary
agreement 
between the Borrower and the 
Project Implementing Entity
("Subsidiary Agree nent"), under terms and conditions approved by the Bank,
which shall include :he following:
(a) 
The Project Implementing Entity will not be required to repay the proceeds
of the Loan received from the Borrower.
(b) 
The obligations of the Project Implementing Entity to:
-8-
(i) 
con ply with the pertinent provisions in this Agreement, as
app icable to the Project Implementing Entity;
(ii) 
procure a private venture capital management firm to act as the
mar ager of the PVC Fund, with terms of reference, experience
and qualifications acceptable to the Bank ("PVC Management
Firri"), in accordance with the provisions set forth in Section III
of this Schedule;
(iii) 
esta:)lish the PVC 
Fund with 
a structure, functions 
and
resronsibilities acceptable to the Bank and in accordance with the
Alternative Investment Fund Act, the Companies Act, and the
Gui lelines on State Aid to Promote Risk Finance Investments;
(iv) 
as part of the establishment of the PVC Fund, enter into an
agrc ement with the shareholders referred to in Section IV, Part B,
parzgraph 1(b)(v) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the "PVC
Fun i Agreement") on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Ban, 
including, inter alia: (A) 
the obligation of the Project
Imp ementing Entity to, upon approval of any given PVC
Inve stment, make available to the PVC Fund a portion of the Loan
proceeds on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, as set
forth in the POM, including, inter alia, compliance with the Anti-
Con uption Guidelines; and (B) the obligation of the PVC Fund to,
upon approval of any given PVC Investment, provide equity
finaicing (the PVC Sub-financing) to the corresponding PVC
Ben .ficiary for purposes of financing the PVC Investment
purs iant to the pertinent agreement (the "PVC Sub-Financing
Agnement") to be entered into between the PVC Fund and said
PVC Beneficiary on terms and conditions, acceptable to the Bank,
inch ding, inter alia, those set forth in subparagraph (vii) below.
(v) 
ensure that the PVC Management Firm, on behalf of the PVC
Fund, approves PVC Investments and the related PVC Sub-
financing in accordance with the eligibility criteria and terms set
fortt in the Project Operations Manual;
(vi) 
ensu-e that the PVC Management Firm, on behalf of the PVC
Fun(, 
maintains, 
throughout 
Project 
implementation, 
pre-
scre( ning, evaluation and supervision procedures for PVC
Inve ftments, acceptable to the Bank;
(vii) 
ensu e that each PVC Sub-Financing Agreement shall include,
inter alia, the following terms and conditions:
-9-
(1) 
the PVC Fund shall obtain rights adequate to protect its
interests and those of the Project Implementing Entity, the
Borrower, and the Bank, including the right to:
(A) 
terminate the right of the PVC Beneficiary to use
the proceeds of the PVC Sub-financing, or ob:ain
a refund of all or any part of the amount of the
PVC Sub-financing received, upon the PVC
Beneficiary's failure to perform any of its
obligations 
under 
the 
PVC 
Sub-financing
Agreement; and
(B) 
require each PVC Beneficiary to:
(1) 
carry 
out 
its 
operations 
with 
due
diligence 
and 
efficiency 
and 
in
accordance 
with 
sound 
technical,
economic, 
financial, 
managerial,
environmental 
and 
social 
standards
(including any EIAs, EMPs or other
documents 
required 
under 
the
Environmental 
Management
Framework) 
and 
practices, 
all
satisfactory to the Bank, including in
accordance with the provisions of the
Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to
recipients of loan proceeds other than the
Borrower;
(II) 
provide, 
promptly 
as 
needed, 
the
resources required for the purpose;
(III) 
maintain 
policies 
and 
procedures
adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate 
its operations, in accordance
with indicators acceptable to the Bank;
(IV) 
maintain a financial management system
and prepare financial 
statements 
in
accordance 
with consistently applied
accounting standards acceptable to the
Bank, both in a manner adequate to
reflect its operations, resources and
expenditures;
-10-
(V) 
at the Bank's or the Borrower's request,
have such financial statements audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank, in accordance with consistently
applied auditing standards acceptable to
the Bank, and promptly furnish the
statements as so audited to the Borrower
and the Bank;
(VI) 
enable 
the 
Borrower, 
the 
Project
Implementing Entity and the Bank to
inspect the Beneficiary's operation and
any relevant records and documents; and
(VII) 
prepare and furnish to the Borrower and
the Bank all such information as the
Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably
request relating to the foregoing.
(2) 
the PVC Management Firm, on behalf of the PVC Fund,
shall exercise the rights and carry out the obligations of
the PVC Fund under each PVC Sub-financing Agreerent
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Pro ect
Implementing Entity, the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank
and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the PVC
Management Firm, on behalf of the PVC Fund, shall not
assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, waive or fail to
enforce any PVC Sub-financing Agreement or any of its
provisions.
(viii) 
mar age the Seed Co-Investment ("SCI") Fund pursuant to criteria
and limitations set forth in the Project Operations Manual;
(ix) 
dec de which investments the SCI Fund will make consistent with
the -riteria set forth in the Act on the Small Business Promotion
DeN elopment and the Agreement on the Merger of the Business
Innivation Agency of the Republic of Croatia with the Croatian
Agc ncy for SMEs and Investments;
(x) 
ensi ire that the SCI Fund approves SCI Subprojects and the related
SCI Sub-financing in accordance with the eligibility criteria and
tern is set forth in the Project Operations Manual;
-11-
(xi) 
ma ntain, throughout Project implementation, pre-screening,
eva[uation and supervision procedures for SCI Subprojects,
acc,-ptable to the Bank;
(xii) 
upcn approval of any given SCI Subproject, make each SCI Sub-
fin ncing pursuant to the corresponding SCI sub-financing
agr ement (the "SCI Sub-financing Agreement") with the
respective SCI Beneficiary on terms and conditions approved by
the Bank, which shall include the following:
(1) 
the Project Implementing Entity shall obtain rights
adequate to protect its interests and those of the Borrower
and the Bank, including the right to:
(A) 
suspend or terminate the right of the SCI
Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the SCI Sub-
financing, or obtain a refund of all or any part of
the amount of the SCI Sub-financing then
withdrawn, upon the SCI Beneficiary's failure to
perform any of its obligations under the SCI Sub-
financing Agreement; and
(B) 
require each SCI Beneficiary to:
(1) 
carry out its SCI Subproject with due
diligence 
and 
efficiency 
and 
in
accordance 
with 
sound 
technical,
economic, 
financial, 
managerial,
environmental 
and 
social 
standards
(including any EIAs, EMPs or other
documents 
required 
under 
the
Environmental 
Management
Framework) 
and 
practices, 
all
satisfactory to the Bank, including in
accordance with the provisions of the
Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to
recipients of loan proceeds other than the
Borrower;
(II) 
provide, 
promptly 
as 
needed, 
the
resources required for the purpose;
(III) 
procure the goods and services under the
pertinent SCI Subproject to be financed
out of the 
SCI 
Sub-financing 
in
-12-
accordance with the provisions of this
Agreement;
(IV) 
maintain 
policies 
and 
procedures
adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate 
the 
SCI 
Subproject 
in
accordance with indicators acceptable to
the Bank;
(V) 
maintain a financial management system
and prepare 
financial 
statements in
accordance 
with consistently applied
accounting standards acceptable to the
Bank, both in a manner adequate to
reflect 
its operations, resources 
and
expenditures;
(VI) 
at the Bank's or the Borrower's request,
have such financial statements audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank, in accordance with consistently
applied auditing standards acceptable to
the Bank, and promptly furnish the
statements as so audited to the Borrower
and the Bank;
(VII) 
enable 
the 
Borrower, 
the 
Project
Implementing Entity and the Bank to
inspect the SCI Subproject, its operation
and any relevant records and documents;
and
(VIII) 
prepare and furnish to the Borrower and
the Bank all such information as the
Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably
request relating to the foregoing.
(2) 
the Project Implementing Entity shall exercise its rights
and carry out its obligations under each SCI Sub-
financing Agreement in such manner as to protect :he
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish
the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank and the
Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Project Implementing
Entity shall not assign, terminate, amend, abrogate, walve
-13-
or fail to enforce any Sub-financing Agreement or any of
its provisions.
2. 
The Borrower shal exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the
Subsidiary Agreem.nt in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower
and the Bank and t)> accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agr( e, the Borrower shall not assign, terminate, amend, abrogate,
waive or fail to enfc rce the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall, and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to, carry out
the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D. 
Safeguards
1 .
The Borrower, thr)ugh MoEC, shall ensure that Project is carried out in
accordance with the Environmental Management Framework, and shall ensure that
no provision of the EMF is amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived
without prior appro''al by the Bank.
2. 
(a) 
The Borrov er, through MoEC, shall ensure that prior to any PVC Sub-
financing o - SCI Sub-financing, the Project Implementing Entity or the
PVC Fund, is the case may be, screens potential PVC Beneficiaries or SCI
Beneficiaries for environmental and social impacts to determine eligibility
of a proposed Sub-financing in accordance with the Environmental
Managemer t Framework.
(b) 
For each pr iposed Sub-financing requiring an EIA or an EMP, or both an
EIA and an -MP, pursuant to the provisions set forth in the Environmental
Managemer t Framework, the Borrower, through MoEC, shall ensure that
the Project mplementing Entity or the PVC Fund, as the case may be, is
responsible for ensuring that:
(i) 
an I IA or an EMP, or both an EIA and an EMP, is/are carried out
and prepared, respectively;
(ii) 
such EIA or EMP, or both the EIA and the EMP, comply with the
pro isions of the Environmental Management Framework;
(iii) 
mezningful consultations are conducted, and the EIA or EMP, or
botlh EIA and EMP, are adequately disclosed; and
-14-
(iv) 
tha each PVC Beneficiary or SCI Beneficiary, as the case may be,
car ies out its activities in compliance with such EIA or EMP or
bota EIA and EMP, and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
3. 
No PVC Investmert or SCI Subproject shall be eligible for Sub-financing if it
involves:
(a) 
any activit es involving the involuntary taking of land resulting in
relocation or loss of shelter, loss of assets or access to assets, loss of
income soUrces or means of livelihood, or involving the involuntary
restriction c f access to legally designated parks and protected areas; or
(b) 
any activitic s likely to have significant adverse environmental impacts that
are sensiti- e, diverse, or unprecedented, that would be classified as
'Category A' in accordance with the Bank's applicable policies and
procedures.
4. 
The Borrower, throt gh MoEC, shall ensure that: (a) the terms of reference for any
consultancies relate I to the technical assistance under Part C of the Project shall
be satisfactory to th- Bank and, to that end, such terms of reference shall require
that the advice corveyed and documentation prepared through such technical
assistance be consis-ent with the requirements of the EMF; (b) technical assistance
activities are screet ed for environmental and social impacts and to determine
eligibility in accor lance with the EMF; and (c) if applicable, the required
environmental docu nentation, such as an EMP, is prepared as part of the technical
assistance.
Section II. 
Project Monitorin2 Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall cause HAMAG-BICRO to monitor and evaluate the progress
of the Project and rprepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to
the Bank. Each Pr ject Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester,
and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one month after the end of the
period covered by sich report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall ,ause HAMAG-BICRO to maintain or cause to be maintained
a financial managen ent system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09
of the General Conditions.
-15-
2. 
Without limitation Dn the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower,
through MoEC, sha I cause HAMAG-BICRO to prepare and furnish to the Bank,
not later than forty- ive (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim
unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and
substance satisfacto *y to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shal cause HAMAG-BICRO to have the Financial Statements
audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General
Conditions. Each a idit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one
fiscal year of the Bo rower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that HAMAG-BICRO and the PVC Fund maintain
financial manageme it systems and prepare financial statements in accordance with
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner
adequate to reflect tl e operations and financial condition of HAMAG-BICRO, and
the PVC Fund sepa ately, including their operations, resources and expenditures
related to the Projec;.
5. 
The Borrower shall have the financial statements of HAMAG-BICRO, the PVC
Management Firm end the PVC Fund audited by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank, in accoi dance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable
to the Bank. Each audit of these financial statements shall cover the period of one
fiscal year of HAM 4G-BICRO, the PVC Management Firm and the PVC Fund
respectively, comm mcing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal is
made for the Project.
6. 
The Borrower, throiugh MoEC, shall ensure that the audited financial statements
of HAMAG-BICRO, the PVC Management Firm and the PVC Fund for each
period are: (a) furni! hed to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of
the period; and (b) nade publicly available in a timely fashion and in a manner
acceptable to the Ba ik.
Section III. 
Procuremeit
A. 
General
1. 
Goods and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods and non-consulting services
required for the Proj -ct and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
procured in accordace with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I
of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Servi ,es. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
-16-
the requirements sel forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The cal italized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methoc s or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corres onding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, Ill, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Method, of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods anc non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basi. of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of gocds and non-consulting services for those contracts specified
in the Procurement :lan:
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional procedures
stipulated in the Annex to this Schedule;
(b) 
Shopping;
(c) 
Direct Conti acting; and
(d) 
Well-establi ;hed Private Sector Procurement Methods or Commercial
Practices wf ich have been found acceptable to the Bank.
C. 
Particular Metho]s of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-')ased Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultant,' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other thE n Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan:
(a) 
Quality-bascd Selection;
(b) 
Selection urder a Fixed Budget;
(c) 
Least Cost . election;
(d) 
Selection besed on Consultants' Qualifications;
(e) 
Single-sour< e Selection of consulting firms;
-17-
(f) 
Procedures s et forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines
for the Selection of Individual Consultants; and
(g) 
Single-sourc e procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to :he
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawa. of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"World Bank Disbu 'sement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised
from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant
to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loat to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligiblc Expenditures in each Category.
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in Euro) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) PVC Investments 
12,000,000 
100%
(2) PVC Management 
3,600,000 
100%
Operating Costs
(3) SCI Subprojects 
2,500,000 
100%
(4) Consultants' Services, 
1,500,000 
100%
Training and Operating
Costs
(5) Unallocated 
400,000
TOTAL AMOUNT 
20,000.000
-18-
B. 
Withdrawal Condi ions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
from the Lo in Account until the Bank has received payment in full of Lhe
Front-end Fie; or
(b) 
for Contributions to the PVC Fund under Category (1) unless:
(i) 
the PVC Management Firm has been selected and hired as
pro ided in Section I, Part B, paragraphl(b)(ii) of this Schedule;
(ii) 
the :VC Management Firm has been authorized by HANFA or
has notified HANFA of its authorization by another European
Union regulator;
(iii) 
the 'VC Fund has been established as provided in Section I, Part
B, p iragraph I (b)(iii) of this Schedule, with by-laws acceptable to
the 3ank;
(iv) 
the PVC Fund has been authorized by HANFA in a manner
accc ptable to the Bank;
(v) 
priv ite shareholders in the PVC Fund 
have committed an
aggiegate of at least four million Euros (E4,000,000);
(vi) 
the nanagement agreement between the PVC Fund and the PVC
Mar agement Firm acceptable to the Bank, has been signed, and
complies with the Borrower's Alternative Investment Fund Act;
and
(vii) 
a Pr vate Placement Memorandum is in place for the PVC Fund.
2. 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2021.
Section V. 
Other Und rtakings
1 .
If the conditions set forth in Section IV, Part B, paragraph 1(b) have not been met
within two (2) year:; after the "Effective Date", the Borrower may, pursuant to
Section 2.08 of the General Conditions, and provided the Bank determines that
there is an estimate( shortfall to finance Eligible Expenditures under Categories
(3) and/or (4), requ st the Bank to reallocate the Loan proceeds allocated under
Category (1) to any )f said Categories to address the estimated shortfall.
-19-
2. 
In the event that the ieallocation mentioned in paragraph I (above) is not requested
immediately after tl e two (2) year deadline referred to in said paragraph, or if
requested, the criter a mentioned therein is not met as determined by the Bank,
pursuant to Section ".01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower hereby requests
the Bank to immediE tely cancel the amount of the Loan allocated to Category (1).
-20-
ANNEX
to
SCHEDULE 2
Additional Provisions for National Competitive Bidding
For the purposes of following National Competitive Bidding procedures in :he
procurement of goods, work; and non-consulting services to be financed under the Loan,
and to ensure broader consistency with the provisions of Section I of the Procurement
Guidelines, the following m difications and additions shall apply:
(i) 
Procedures
The open competiti, e bidding method shall apply to all contracts. Invitations to
bid shall be advertised in the Borrower's Official Gazette (Narodne Novine), in at least one
widely circulated national d,.ily newspaper, or on a widely used website with free access
(including the Borrower's 
vebsite), allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days for the
preparation and submission of bids.
(ii) 
Pre-qualification
When pre-qualificat on shall be required for large or complex works, invitations
to pre-qualify for bidding sh il be advertised in the Borrower's Official Gazette (Narodne
Novine), in at least one wid,.ly circulated national daily newspaper, or on a widely used
website with free access (inc uding the Borrower's website), allowing a minimum of thirty
(30) days for the preparatior and submission of pre-qualification applications. Minimum
experience and technical an I financial requirements shall be explicitly stated in the pre-
qualification documents, which shall be determined by a "pass/fail" method, not through
the use of a merit point syst-m. Where pre-qualification is not used, the qualifications of
the bidder who is recomn ended for award of contract shall be assessed by post-
qualification, applying minimum experience, technical and financial requirements which
shall be explicitly stated in the bidding documents.
(iii) 
Participation of Gov rmment-owned Enterprises
Government-owned enterprises located and operating on the Borrower's territory
shall be eligible to participate in bidding only if they can establish, to the Bank's
satisfaction, that they are le. rally and financially autonomous, operate under commercial
laws and are not a dependent agency of the Borrower. Said enterprises shall be subject to
the same bid and performan e security requirements as other bidders.
-21-
(iv) 
Bidding Documents
The Borrower shall use appropriate bidding documents that are acceptable to the
Bank.
(v) 
Bid Submission, Op.ning and Evaluation
(1) 
Bids shall he submitted in a single envelope containing the bidder's
qualificatior information, technical and price bids, which shall be opened
simultaneou,,ly at the public bid opening.
(2) 
Bids shall 
)e opened in public, immediately after the deadline for
submission of bids. The name of the bidder, the total amount of each bid
and any discounts offered shall be read aloud and recorded in the minutes
of the public bid opening.
(3) 
The evaluation of bids shall be done in strict adherence to the monetarily
quantifiable criteria specified in the bidding documents and a merit point
system shall not be used.
(4) 
Extension o- bid validity shall be allowed once only for not more than
thirty (30) d tys. No further extensions should be granted without the prior
approval of he Bank.
(5) 
Contracts shall be awarded to qualified bidders having submitted the
lowest evalLated substantially responsive bid.
(6) 
No preferen:e shall apply under National Competitive Bidding.
(vi) 
Reiection of All Bid;
All bids shall not te rejected and new bids solicited without the Bank's prior
written concurrence.
(vii) 
Price Adjustment
Civil works contract3 of long duration (e.g., more than eighteen (18) months) shall
contain an appropriate price adjustment clause.
(viii) 
Securities
Bid securities shall not exceed two percent (2%) of the estimated cost of the
contract and performance 3ecurities not more than ten percent (10%). No advance
payments shall be made to <ontractors without a suitable advance payment security. The
-22-
wording of all such securiti(s shall be included into the bidding documents and shall be
acceptable to the Bank.
(ix) 
Right to inspect and audit
Each bidding docum ent and contract financed from the proceeds of the Loan slall
provide that the bidders, s ippliers and contractors, and their subcontractors, agents,
personnel, consultants, servi.e providers, or suppliers, shall permit the Bank, at its request,
to inspect all accounts, records, and other documents relating to the submission of bids and
contract performance, and tc have them audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. Acts
intended to materially imp de the exercise of the Bank's inspection and audit rights
provided for in the Procurem ent Guidelines constitute an obstructive practice as defined in
the Procurement Guidelines.
(x) 
Fraud & Corruption
Any bidding documi nt and contract deemed acceptable by the Bank shall include
provisions stating the Bank's policy to sanction firms or individuals, found to have engaged
in fraudulent, corrupt, coll sive, coercive, and obstructive practices as defined in the
Procurement Guidelines.
(xi) 
Conflict of Interest
Any bidding docum, nt and contract deemed acceptable by the Bank shall include
provisions stating the Bank'! policy of conflict of interest.
-23-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Instillment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the :irst Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of thi; Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each May 15 ar d November 15
Beginning November 15, 2019 
8.33%
through No vember 15, 2024
On May 15, 2025 
8.37%
2. 
If the proceeds of th: Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the exter t that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balan:e as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amoun: withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal n amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Ins ailment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule fo- said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
-24-
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts refirred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion ipplies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of :he Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal air ounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn 
mnd outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following th,- date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Dite commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following th -date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstan ling the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time t ie Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued or or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub- aragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversio i of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency. the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Pri icipal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination imme4 liately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Cur ency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so deterr ines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Lcan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of thi; Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Curren -y, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
-25-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Act on the Small Business Promotion Development" means the legislation
promulgated by the Iorrower in the Official Gazette 29/2002, as amended, which
regulates the basis ft r the implementation of economic policy incentives aimed at
the development, restructuring and market adjustment of small businesses and the
establishment of the Croatian Agency for SMEs and Investment.
2. 
"Agreement on the Merger of the Business Innovation Agency of the Republic of
Croatia (BICRO) wiih the Croatian Agency for SMEs and Investments (HAMAG-
INVEST)" means tle agreement of the same name dated April 8, 2014, which
regulates mutual rig its and obligations of the parties of the Agreement (BICRO
and HAMAG-INVEST) arising from the transfer of the entire assets, rights and
liabilities of the merged agency (BICRO) to the acquirer (HAMAG-BICRO).
3. 
"Alternative Investnent Fund Act" means the Alternative Investment Fund Act
enacted by the Borrower in January 2013, which sets forth the conditions for the
establishment and :peration of alternative investment funds ("AlFs") and
alternative investmeit fund managers ("AIFMs"), and regulates the method of
issue and redemptio i of units of AlFs, marketing of units of AlFs, delegation of
duties to third parties and supervision of the operation and management of AIFN4s,
AlFs, depositaries aid persons marketing units in AlFs.
4. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud ar d Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
5. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
6. 
"Companies Act" neans the Borrower's Companies Act last amended in
June 2013 (Official 3azette 68/2013), which regulates different types of business
forms (public partne ship, closed partnership,joint stock company, limited liability
company, and ecoromic interest grouping) and contains rules on groups of
companies, mergers. divisions, transformations of companies and the legal status
of foreign companie;.
7. 
"Consultant Guideliies" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated Ja -uary 2011 (revised July 2014).
-26-
8. 
"Environmental 
Ir pact Assessment" 
or "EIA" means 
any site-specific
environmental impact assessment carried out, as required, in accordance with the
EMF.
9. 
"Environmental Management Framework" or "EMF" means the framework
prepared by the Bor -ower, dated February 2015, in form, substance and manner
satisfactory to the Benk, and disclosed on March 17, 2015,consisting of, inter alia:
the set of mitigation, monitoring, institutional and screening measures required for
the support to be pro vided under the Project as well as under Subprojects and to be
taken to eliminate a( verse environmental impacts, offset them, or reduce them to
acceptable levels, as well as actions needed to implement said measures, including
the measures and information required for the preparation of site-specific
environmental management plans. The EMF may be amended from time to tine
with the agreement < f the Bank.
10. 
"Environmental 
M inagement Plan" 
or" EMP" 
means any site-specific
environmental mane gement plan prepared, as required, in accordance with the
EMF.
11. 
"General Condition ;" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
12. 
"Guidelines on Sta e Aid to Promote Risk Finance Investments" means the
guidelines of the sarie name adopted by the European Commission effective July
1, 2014 (OJ C19, da ed January 22, 2014).
13. 
"HAMAG-BICRO" or the "Project Implementing Entity" means the legal enlity
established by the Borrower pursuant to the Project Implementing Entity's
Legislation, or any 1.gal successor thereto.
14. 
"HANFA" means the Borrower's Financial Services Supervisory Agency, or any
legal successor therc to.
15. 
"Ministry of Entrerreneurship and Crafts" or "MoEC" means the Borrower's
Ministry of Entrepre neurship and Crafts, or any legal successor thereto.
16. 
"Ministry of Financc " or "MoF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance, or any
legal successor ther to.
17. 
"Operating Costs" rr eans the reasonable incremental expenses incurred on account
of Project implemen ation, management and monitoring, including office supplies,
the cost of publica ion of procurement notices, vehicle operation, office and
equipment maintena ice and repair, communication, translation and interpretation,
travel and supervisic n costs, and other miscellaneous costs directly associated with
-27-
Project, as determined by the Bank but excluding salaries of officials and
employees of the Bo-ower or the Project Implementing Entity.
18. 
"PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit established within the Project
Implementing Entity, responsible for implementation of the Project, and referred
to in Section I, Part A, paragraph 2 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
19. 
"Private Placement viemorandum" means the prospectus for shares in the PVC
Fund, detailing all of the terms of the investment, requirements of the investor, and
proper disclaimers a id disclosures related to the business and the equity.
20. 
"Pilot Venture Capial Fund" or "PVC Fund" means the private venture capital
fund to be established pursuant to Part A of the Project.
21. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrow-rs" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
22. 
"Procurement Plan" -neans the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, da-ed
June 9, 2015 and ref ,rred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.25 of tl- e Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accot dance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
23. 
"Project Implementi ig Entity's Legislation" means the Act on the Amendments to
the Small Business Promotion Development (Official Gazette 56/2013) and the
Agreement on the 1N erger of the Business Innovation Agency of the Republic of
Croatia with the Croatian Agency for SMEs and Investments dated April 8, 2014.
24. 
"Project Operations Manual" or "POM" means the project operations manual,
acceptable to the Ba lk setting forth procedures and requirements for carrying out
the Project, and ado )ted by the Project Implementing Entity, as the same may be
amended from time o time with the agreement of the Bank.
25. 
"Project Steering C< mmittee" means the Project Steering Committee established
by the Borrower in .ccordance with Section 1, Part A, paragraph 3 of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
26. 
"PVC Fund Agreenient" means the agreement referred to in Section I, Part B,
paragraph (1)(b)(iv) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
27. 
"PVC Investment" rieans any equity investment made by the PVC Fund in a PVC
Beneficiary which h is met the eligibility criteria set forth in the POM.
28. 
"PVC Beneficiary" neans any SME or Startup which has met the eligible criteria
set forth in the POM to be eligible for a PVC Sub-financing.
-28-
29. 
"PVC Management irm" means the firm selected to manage the PVC Fund and
referred to in Sectior I, Part B, paragraph 1(b)(ii) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
30. 
"PVC Management Operating Costs" means the costs of establishing and
operating the PVC F ind to be paid to the PVC Management Firm.
31. 
"PVC Sub-financing " means a payment made out of the proceeds of the Loan to a
PVC Beneficiary in ,xchange for a PVC Investment.
32. 
"PVC Sub-financing Agreement" means any agreement between the PVC Fund
and a PVC Beneficiary pursuant to Schedule 2, Section 1, Part B, paragraph
1(b)(iv) of this Agre,ment.
33. 
"SCI Subproject" m .ans the productive purpose operations of a SCI Beneficiary
which have met the cligibility criteria set forth in the POM
34. 
"SCI Beneficiary" means an SME or Startup which has met the eligible criteria set
forth in the POM to ie eligible for a SCI Sub-financing.
35. 
"SCI Sub-financing" means a loan made out of the proceeds of the Loan to an SCI
Beneficiary, for the purpose of financing up to sixty percent (60%) of a SCI
Subproject.
36. 
"SCI Sub-financing Agreement" means an agreement between the Project
Implementing Entit) and an SCI Beneficiary pursuant to Schedule 2, Section 1,
Part B, paragraph 1( ))(xii) of this Agreement.
37. 
"Seed Co-Investmert Fund" or "SCI Fund" means the financial vehicle through
which SCI Sub-finai icing is provided to SCI Beneficiaries and referred to in Part
B of the Project.
38. 
"SMEs" means any nicro, small or medium-sized enterprise as defined in Annex
I to European Comriission Regulation No. 651/2014.
39. 
"Startups" means an, / SMEs in the process of becoming operational or any existing
SME that has yet to sell its product or service commercially, as set forth in the
POM.
40. 
"Sub-financing" meins any PVC Sub-financing or any SCI Sub-financing.
41. 
"Subproject" means any PVC Investment or any SCI Subproject.
42. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I, Part B of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the
proceeds of the Loa available to the Project Implementing Entity.
-29-
43. 
"Training" means Pr)ject-related training and includes training courses, seminars,
workshops and othcr training activities, not included under service providers'
contracts, including costs of training materials, space and equipment rental,
reasonable and nece:,sary local and international travel by participants in training
activities, reasonabl 
lodging and accommodation, subsistence and local and
international per diem of trainees and trainers, registration, tuition and facilitators'
fees, translation and interpretation, and other training related miscellaneous costs,
all based on budgets acceptable to the Bank.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditi:)ns are hereby modified as follows:
1 .
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modifie Ito reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Fr( nt-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.C 1. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan
amount at tf e rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdram n Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement
(the "Comrr itment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective
dates on wHich amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan
Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-
annually in irrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are mo ified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is m:dified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Comr itment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Cc mmitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified
in the Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered )aragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Froni-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
-30-
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the tern "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Lo,,n Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties
to the Bank T ursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions,
including (bi it not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance,
interest, the Front-end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default
Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a
Conversion jr early termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread
Fixing Char )e (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount
payable by t le Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered raragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Paymu nt Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Com nitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
