'6X
LOAN NUMBER 8557-ID
Loan Agreement
(First Indonesia Sustainable and Inclusive Energy Development Policy Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
DeCcM ber 
,2015
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8557-ID
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
Pecembtr 
L4 
, 2015, entered into between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
("Bank") for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to
this Agreement). The Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia of: (a) the actions
which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower's maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy
framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an integral part
of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have the
meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
this Agreement, the amount of five hundred million United States Dollars (USD 500,000,000), as
such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance
with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in accordance
with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent (0.25%)
of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than sixty days after the
Effective Date.
2.04 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the
Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with
the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Condition Notwithstanding the foregoing, if
any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be
calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are June 1 and December I in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-2-
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the terms of
the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of the Loan
Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable
to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Reference Rate and the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference
Rate and the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate
or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted by the
Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General Conditions, and shall
be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and
of the Conversion Guidelines.
2.09. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit (as said
terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of this Section), the Borrower shall
pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of one half of one percent (0.5%) per annum of the
Allocated Excess Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this Section)
for each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if any) shall be
payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during which the
Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit, the product of: (A) the
total amount of said excess; and (B) the ratio of all (or, if the Bank so determines,
a portion) of the Loan to the aggregate amount of all (or the equivalent portions)
of the loans made by the Bank to the Borrower and to other borrowers guaranteed
by the Borrower that are also subject to an exposure surcharge, as said excess and
ratio are reasonably determined from time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the Bank's financial
exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded, would subject the Loan to the
Exposure Surcharge, as determined from time to time by the Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total financial exposure to
the Borrower, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
-3-
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this end, and
further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework and the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program;
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for its
review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, the
Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have the effect of
materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action taken under the Program.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: a situation has arisen which shall
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following: the Bank is satisfied with the
progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program and with the adequacy of the
Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Finance.
-4-
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Directorate General of Budget Financing and Risk Management
Ministry of Finance
Gedung Frans Seda
Jl. DR. Wahidin Raya No. 1
Jakarta 10710
Indonesia
Telex: 
Facsimile:
45799 
62-21-381-2859
6. 03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By
Authorized Representive
Name: 
R 
y't Ra/)
Title: DFr, C br 6pnprcd/ 
uPj, P Fanp c
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
Pl)1nE 
P4' 
P
Title: 
PCTit-), 
C0Ut*Ty 
DfPECTOR
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
Pillar A: 
Fiscal Sustainability
1. 
The Minister of Energy and Mineral Resources has issued regulations to phase out electricity
subsidies for: (a) large- and medium-sized industrial and business categories; and (b) large- and
medium-sized residential consumers, as evidenced through MEMR Regulation 9/2014 and
MEMR Regulation 19/2014, and PLN has implemented the corresponding tariff increases.
2. 
The Minister of Energy and Mineral Resources has issued regulations for the monthly automatic
indexation of electricity tariffs - to reflect changes in oil prices, the exchange rate, and inflation 
for: (a) large- and medium-sized industrial and business categories; and (b) large residential
consumers, as evidenced through MEMR Regulation 31/2014 and MEMR Regulation 9/2015;
and, from January 2015, PLN has adjusted its tariffs in accordance with said regulations for the
abovementioned categories.
3. 
The Minister of Finance has signed the MOF Regulation that lays out a performance-based
regulation framework covering: (a) setting targets for controllable costs, and the calculation of the
revenue requirement for PLN's operations and investments; and (b) the calculation and
disbursement of budget support to PLN based on revenue requirement and approved tariffs.
Pillar B: 
Investment Climate
4. The Minister of Energy and Mineral Resources has issued a regulation for a systematic and time-
bound process for managing expiring production sharing contracts as evidenced through MEMR
Regulation 15/2015.
5. 
The Minister of Agrarian and Spatial Affairs/Head of National Land Agency and the Minister of
Environment and Forestry have amended regulations to streamline administrative procedures
(relating to licensing of building rights, land use and location permits) and reduce the time
required to obtain central government's licenses for setting up independent power producer
projects, as evidenced through MoEF Regulation P-97/2015 and MASA Regulation 2/2015.
6. 
The Minister of Energy and Mineral Resources and the Minister of Environment and Forestry
have issued regulations to delegate the licensing authority for setting up independent power
producer projects to the Indonesia Investment Coordinating Board for inclusion in its national
one-stop-service for investment, as evidenced through MEMR Regulation 35/2014, MoEF
Regulation 97/2014, as amended by MoEF Regulation 1/2015.
Pillar C: 
Renewable Energy
7. 
The Borrower has improved conditions for geothermal power development through the issuance
of Geothermal Law No. 21 of 2014.
-7-
8. 
The Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources has submitted to the Ministry of Law and Human
Rights, a draft Government Regulation to implement the Geothermal Law No. 21 of 2014
provisions for the local benefit-sharing mechanism involving a "production bonus" payment by
geothermal companies to local governments.
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to
the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which
the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan Tranche
Allocated
(expressed in USD)
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 
500,000,000
TOTAL AMOUNT 
500,000,000
C. 
Payment of Front-end Fee. No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account until the Bank
has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee.
D. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions. 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single
Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the
Borrower; and (b) with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
E. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an account
designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and
2. 
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into this
account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower's budget management
system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
F. 
Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be
used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an amount of the
Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank.
Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
G. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is June 30, 2016.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date ("Installment Share").
If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the
principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable
amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share (Expressed as a Percentage)
June 1, 2021 
2.28
December 1, 2021 
2.34
June 1, 2022 
2.40
December 1, 2022 
2.46
June 1, 2023 
2.52
December 1, 2023 
2.58
June 1, 2024 
2.64
December 1, 2024 
2.71
June 1, 2025 
2.78
December 1, 2025 
2.85
June 1, 2026 
2.92
December 1, 2026 
2.99
June 1, 2027 
3.07
December 1, 2027 
3.14
June 1, 2028 
3.22
December 1, 2028 
3.30
June 1, 2029 
3.39
December 1, 2029 
3.47
June 1, 2030 
3.56
December 1, 2030 
3.65
June 1, 2031 
3.74
December 1, 2031 
3.83
June 1, 2032 
3.93
December 1, 2032 
4.02
June 1, 2033 
4.12
December 1, 2033 
4.23
June 1, 2034 
4.33
December 1, 2034 
4.44
June 1, 2035 
4.55
December 1, 2035 
4.54
-9-
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date,
the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date
shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in
accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on each
Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts determined
by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the
numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1
of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share") and the
denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original Installment Shares for
Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, such amounts repayable to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following
the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any time the
Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on or after the
respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer
apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 
1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency, the
amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal Payment Date
occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such
amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the
Screen Rate.
-10-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or international
financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association has financed or
agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association has financed or agreed to finance
under another loan, credit, or grant;
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard International
Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations in
Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the
Borrower:
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item
112 
Alcoholic beverages
121 
Tobacco, un-manufactured,
tobacco refuse
122 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether
or not containing tobacco
substitutes)
525 
Radioactive and associated
materials
667 
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones, unworked
or worked
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury consumption;
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the
Borrower is a party, and any other goods designated as environmentally hazardous by
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank;
-11-
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive
practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other recipient of the
Loan proceeds, without the Borrower (or other such recipient) having taken timely and
appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.
2. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in Section
II of this Appendix.
3. 
"Geothermal Law No. 21 of 2014" means the Borrower's law which regulates geothermal power
development.
4. 
"Government Regulation" means Peraturan Pemerintah, a regulation of the government of the
Borrower.
5. 
"Indonesia Investment Coordinating Board" means Badan Koordinasi Penanaman Modal, the
Borrower's investment coordinating board, or any successor thereto.
6. 
"MASA Regulation" means Peraturan Menteri Agraria dan Tata Ruang/Kepala Badan
Pertanahan Nasional, a regulation of the Borrower's Minister of Agrarian and Spatial
Affairs/Head of National Land Agency.
7. 
"MEMR Regulation" means Peraturan Menteri Energi dan Sumber Daya Mineral, a regulation
of the Borrower's Minister of Energy and Mineral Resources.
8. 
"Minister of Agrarian and Spatial Affairs/Head of Land Agency" or "MASA" means the
Borrower's minister responsible for agrarian affairs and land, or any successor thereto.
9. 
"Minister of Energy and Mineral Resources" or "MEMR" means the Borrower's minister
responsible for energy and mineral resources, or any successor thereto.
10. 
"Minister of Environment and Forestry" or "MoEF" means the Borrower's minister responsible
for the environment and forestry, or any successor thereto.
11. 
"Minister of Finance" means the Borrower's minister responsible for finance, or any successor
thereto.
12. 
"Ministry of Law and Human Rights" means the Borrower's ministry of law and human rights, or
any successor thereto.
13. 
"MoEF Regulation" means Peraturan Menteri Lingkungan Hidup dan Kehutanan, a regulation of
the Borrower's Minister of Environment and Forestry.
14. 
"MOF Regulation" means Peraturan Menteri Keuangan, a regulation of the Borrower's Minister
of Finance.
-12-
15. 
"PLN" means PT Perusahaan Listrik Negara (Persero), the Borrower's state-owned electricity
company, and any successor thereto.
16. 
"Presidential Regulation" or "Peraturan Presiden" means a regulation of the president (the chief
executive of the government) of the Borrower.
17. 
"Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote growth and
achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the letter dated October
26, 2015 (No. S-846/MK.08/2015) from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in support
of the Program during its execution.
18. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers are
modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for Withdrawal) is
deleted in its entirety.
3. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in their
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
4. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate specified in
the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The Commitment
Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the
respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or
cancelled. 
The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each
Payment Date."
5. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management; Financial
Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the subsequent Sections in Article V are
renumbered accordingly.
6. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above and relating to
Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
-13-
7. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above) is modified to
read as follows:
"Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until two years
after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
such records."
8. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above) is modified to
read as follows:
"Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish to the
Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the
performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the
Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."
9. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all references to Section numbers and paragraphs are modified, as
necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above.
10. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition of
"Commitment Charge", and renumbering the remaining paragraphs accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan Agreement
for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
11. 
Renumbered paragraph 37 (originally paragraph 36) of the Appendix ("Eligible Expenditure") is
modified to read as follows:
"37. 
"Eligible Expenditure" means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the Program,
other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan Agreement."
12. 
Renumbered paragraph 44 (originally paragraph 43) of the Appendix ("Financial Statements") is
deleted in its entirety.
13. 
In paragraph 48 of the Appendix, the definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the
reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
-14-
14. 
In paragraph 67 of the Appendix, the definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read
as follows:
"67. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank pursuant to
the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited to) any amount of
the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the
Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or
early termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium
payable upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any
Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
15. 
In paragraph 72 of the Appendix, the definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the
word "is" and inserting the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
16. 
The defined term "Project" in paragraph 75 of the Appendix is modified to read "Program" and
its definition is modified to read as follows (and all references to "Project" throughout these
General Conditions are deemed to be references to "Program"):
"75. 
"Program" means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of which the
Loan is made."
