OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8531-TR
Loan Agreement
(Health System Strengthening and Support Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated Sepemi 
31D 
2015
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8531-TR
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
Se piCm 6o 
30 
, 2015, between the REPUBLIC OF
TURKEY ("Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE H -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred twenty million EUROS (E120,000,000),
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in
financing the project described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than sixty
(60) days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e)
of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
-2-
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
-
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount
of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency;
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a
Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a
Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable Spread,
or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable
Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable
to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower, through MoH, agrees with the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project through MoH in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through MoH, shall ensure
that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this
Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Undersecretary of Treasury.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Basbakanlik
Hazine Mustesarligi
Inonu Bulvari
Emek - Ankara
Turkey
Facsimile:
(312) 204-7366
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at Ankara, Republic of Turkey, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
Byh
Authodz 
Representative
Title: 
A &q 
Dirdor Gaen
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Autho 
representative
Name: 
a 
a
Title: Azfz 
CaA~,~P~
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to improve primary and secondary prevention of selected
NCDs, increase the efficiency of public hospital management, and enhance the evidence-based
policy-making capacity of the MoH.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part I: Primary and Secondary Prevention
Raising awareness (both of the population in general and among health care providers) on
risk factors related to NCDs and promoting healthy life styles and behavior changes, through the
following activities:
(A) 
(i) developing public outreach materials, methodologies and targeting to raise
population awareness about NCDs and the importance of healthy living; (ii)
promoting physical activity in Healthy Living Centers, including rehabilitating
community health centers to reconfigure for physical activity; and (iii)
implementing a nationwide campaign on substance addiction and strengthening
the infrastructure of the treatment and research centers for adults and children
suffering from alcoholism and substance addiction.
(B) 
(i) improving the capacity of post-screening diagnosis centers; (ii) introducing and
maintaining national cancer registry software and provision of Training to health
workers on said software; and (iii) developing guidelines, standards and training
modules for palliative care.
(C) 
(i) strengthening the Family Physician Training Program, including through
expanding the infrastructure and hardware of the distance learning system to
nationwide coverage; (ii) improving service delivery and quality of care by family
physicians through the analysis of current workload practices and procedures.
Part II: Increasing Efficiency of Public Hospital Management
(A) 
Strengthening public hospital management and clinical operations in: (i) clinical
engineering; (ii) drug and medical supply management; (iii) clinical care
processes; and (iv) administrative and financial information systems, by (a)
providing Training to public hospital staff, (b) developing national guidelines and
classifications; (c) supporting public hospital teams to implement guidelines and
standards; and (d) strengthening information systems.
(B) 
developing and implementing architectural and technical standards for health
facilities; and
(C) 
strengthening the capacity of the General Directorate of Health Investments in
managing public-private partnership ("PPP") contracts and administering PPP
-6-
investments in engagement with the relevant stakeholders, including the
Undersecretariat of Treasury and the Ministry of Development, and in developing
in-house capacity in legal, financial, operational, and structural aspects of contract
management.
Part III: Improving the Effectiveness of Overall Health Sector Administration
(A) 
(i) Institutionalizing health sector performance assessments and harmonizing
health sector data; (ii) developing and adopting national e-health standards and
reviewing applicable legislation to improve quality of health data; (iii) developing
and implementing a health management information system; and (iv) enhancing
the technical audit capacity of MoH and widening the use of evidence-based
medical practice to improve the quality of health services;
(B) 
(i) developing a model for raising awareness about the Borrower's health sector;
and (ii) developing pre-hospital trauma care systems for disasters;
(C) 
strengthening capacity for the health technology assessment; and
(D) 
supporting the PMSU in Project implementation, including in the areas of financial
management, procurement, disbursement, and monitoring and evaluation.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arran%ements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements.
I. 
The Borrower shall, through MoH, maintain the POM in form and content satisfactory to
the Bank, shall duly perform all of its obligations under the POM, and shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the POM, without the prior approval of the Bank.
2. 
At all times during Project implementation, the Borrower, through MoH, shall operate and
maintain the PMSU with functions and responsibilities, qualified staff in sufficient
numbers, adequate funds, facilities, services and other resources for the Project
implementation (including financial management, procurement, disbursement and
safeguards aspects), all satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through MoH, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with
the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Safeguards
The Recipient shall not undertake any Project activities that involve Resettlement.
Section H. 
Project Monitoring Reportinz and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower, through MoH, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
and on the basis of the indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period
of one (1) calendar year of the Borrower, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower, through MoH, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower, through MoH,
shall prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of
each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through MoH, shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance
with the provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one calendar year of the Borrower. The
-8-
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later
than six months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to the
corresponding method described in Sections [1 and III of the Procurement Guidelines, or
Sections II, HI, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services (including logistical and
organization services for Training) for those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan:
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following additional provisions set
forth in the Annex to this Schedule 2;
(b) 
Shopping; and
(c) 
Direct Contracting.
-9-
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality and
Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following methods, other
than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of consultants'
services for those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan:
(a) 
Quality-based Selection (QBS);
(b) 
Selection under a Fixed Budget (FBS);
(c) 
Least Cost Selection (LCS);
(d) 
Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications (CQS);
(e) 
Single-source Selection of consulting firms; and
(f) 
Procedures set forth in Section V of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank Disbursement
Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as
made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures
in each Category.
-10-
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in EURO) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non- 
120,000,000 
100%
consulting services,
consultants' services,
Training and Operating Costs
for the Project
TOTAL AMOUNT 
120,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-
end Fee; or
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is May 31, 2020.
-11-
Annex to
SCHEDULE 2
Mandatory Provisions for Procurement under Bank-Financed Contracts
Subject to National Competitive Bidding
The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding shall be those set forth in
the Public Procurement Law of the Borrower (Law No. 4734) as amended as of September 10,
2014 (the "PPL"), notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Borrower's Law on Public
Procurement Contracts (Law No. 4735), as amended as of September 10, 2014, and subject to the
following provisions:
A. 
Eligibility
The eligibility of bidders shall be as defined under Section I of the Procurement Guidelines;
accordingly, no bidder or potential bidder shall be declared ineligible for contracts financed by the
Bank for reasons other than those provided in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines.
Bidding shall not be restricted to domestic bidders. No restrictions in respect of eligibility
to participate in bidding for contracts shall be placed on the basis of nationality of the bidder and/or
the origin of goods other than those set forth in paragraph 1.10 of the Procurement Guidelines. No
restriction of any kind shall be applied to foreign bidders who wish to submit a bid.
Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms, and foreign bidders shall not be
required to be registered with local authorities as a prerequisite for submitting bids.
B. 
Procedures
(i) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in the Borrower's official gazette, or in at
least one widely circulated national daily newspaper, or in an electronic portal of
free access allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days for the preparation and
submission of bids.
(ii) 
The sale and/or issuance of bidding documents shall not be restricted only to
entities invited by the procuring entity.
(iii) 
Prequalification procedures acceptable to the Bank shall be used for large, complex
and/or specialized projects.
C. 
Assessment of Bidders' Qualifications
In the procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services, where pre-qualification
is not used, the qualifications of the bidder who is recommended for award of contract shall be
assessed by post-qualification, applying minimum experience, technical and financial requirements
which shall be explicitly stated in the bidding documents and which shall be detennined by a
'pass/fail' method, not through use of a merit point system.
D. 
Participation by Government-owned Enterprises
-12-
Government-owned enterprises in the Republic of Turkey shall be eligible to participate in
bidding only if they can establish that they are legally and financially autonomous, operate under
commercial law and are not a dependent agency of the Borrower. Furthermore, they will be subject
to the same bid and performance security requirements as other bidders.
E. 
Participation by Joint Ventures
Participation shall be allowed from joint ventures on the condition that such joint venture
partners will be jointly and severally liable under the contract.
F. 
Bidding Documents
Procuring entities shall use the Bank's sample National Competitive Bidding documents
for Europe and Central Asia Region for goods and works in a manner acceptable to the Bank, and
shall draft prequalification documents (where applicable), contracts and conditions of contract,
acceptable to the Bank.
G. 
Bid Evaluation
(i) 
Evaluation criteria other than price shall be quantified in monetary terms.
(ii) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the monetarily-quantifiable
criteria declared in the bidding documents and a merit point system shall not be
used.
(iii) 
An extension of bid validity, if justified by exceptional circumstances, may be
requested in writing from all bidders before the bid validity expiration date and
shall be allowed once only for the minimum period required to complete the
evaluation or award a contract, but not more than thirty (30) days. No further
extensions shall be requested without the prior approval of the Bank.
(iv) 
Contracts shall be awarded to qualified bidders having submitted the lowest
evaluated substantially responsive bid, and no negotiation as to the price or
substance of the bid shall take place.
(v) 
No preference shall apply under National Competitive Bidding.
H. 
Price Adjustment
Civil works contracts of long duration (i.e. more than eighteen (18) months) shall contain
an appropriate price adjustment clause, acceptable to the Bank.
I. 
Rejection of All Bids
All bids (or the sole bid if only one bid is received) shall not be rejected, the procurement
process shall not be cancelled, and new bids shall not be solicited without the Bank's prior written
concurrence. No bids shall be rejected solely because they fall below or exceed the estimated or
reference price.
-13-
J. 
Securities
Bid securities should not exceed 3% (three percent) of the estimated cost of the contract;
performance securities should not exceed more than 10% (ten percent) of the cost of the contract.
No advance payments shall be made to the suppliers without a suitable advance payment security.
The wording of all such securities shall be included in the bidding documents and shall be
acceptable to the Bank. Bidders shall be given at least twenty-eight (28) days from the receipt of
notification of contract award to submit performance securities, and bid securities shall remain
valid for such period.
K. 
Fraud and Corruption
Each bidding document and contract financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall include
provisions on matters pertaining to fraud and corruption set forth in paragraph 1.16 of the
Procurement Guidelines. The Bank will sanction a firm or an individual, at any time, in accordance
with prevailing Bank sanctions procedures.
L. 
Audit Rights
In accordance with paragraph 1.16(e) of the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding
document and contract financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall provide that: (i) the bidders,
suppliers and contractors, and their subcontractors, agents, personnel, consultants, service
providers, or suppliers shall permit the Bank, at its request, to inspect their accounts and records
relating to the bid submission and performance of the contract, and to have said accounts and
records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank-, and (ii) acts intended to materially impede the
exercise of the Bank's audit rights may amount to an obstructive practice as defined in paragraph
1.1 6(a)(v) of the Procurement Guidelines.
M. 
Debarment
The Bank may recognize, if requested by the Borrower, exclusion from participation as a
result of debarment under the national system, provided that the debarment is for offenses involving
fraud, corruption or similar misconduct, and further provided that the Bank confirms that the
particular debarment procedure afforded due process and the debarment decision is final.
-14-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: 
(a)
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment
Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary,
to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each February 15 and August 15 
9.09%
Beginning February 15, 2021
through August 15, 2025
February 15, 2026 
9.1%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as
of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding
on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall
-15-
be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating
to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-16-
APPENDIX
Section 1. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated
October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
3. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January
2011 (revised July 2014).
4. 
"Family Physician Training Program" means a distance learning program aiming to
increase efficiency and coverage of preventive and primary health care services and to
standardize training processes and content, under the responsibility of MoH.
5. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
6. 
"General Directorate of Health Investments" means the unit within MoH, with
responsibility for managing health facility investments under conventional and public-
private partnership schemes, or any legal successor thereto.
7. 
"Healthy Living Center" means a center, established by MoH, aiming to improve healthy
living practices among the population of the Borrower by providing necessary services
such as training, counselling, diagnosis/treatment and practical/physical sessions.
8. 
"MoH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health, or any legal successor thereto.
9. 
"NCDs" means non-communicable diseases.
10. 
"Operating Costs" means reasonable incremental expenses incurred on account of Project
implementation, management and monitoring, including office supplies, office rental
including rehabilitation centers, publication of procurement notices, vehicle operation,
office and equipment maintenance and repair, communication, translation and
interpretation, travel and supervision costs, subscription to publications and databases,
publication fees, and ownership of intellectual property rights, but excluding salaries of
officials and employees of the MoH.
11. 
"POM" means the Project operational manual for the Project, satisfactory to the Bank,
describing and setting forth procedures for implementation of the Project and related
institutional arrangements, and including, inter alia, timetables of actions required to be
carried out under the Project, the respective roles and responsibilities of the agencies
involved in the implementation of the Project, staffing, the fiduciary, technical and
operational aspects and procedures for implementation of the Project, including the
-17-
financial 
management 
procedures 
(budgeting, 
accounting 
and 
internal 
control,
disbursement and flow of funds, financial reporting, annual reports, internal and external
audit arrangements procedures and including the Project specific chart of accounts),
procurement procedures, monitoring and evaluation arrangements, and other fiduciary and
administrative arrangements and necessary terms of reference, as the same may be
amended from time to time by agreement with the Bank.
12. 
"PMSU" means the Project Management and Support Unit established within MoH, or any
legal successor thereto.
13. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
14. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
May 27, 2015 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
15. 
"Public Hospitals Institution" means the Borrower's government institution affiliated with
MoH supervising the compliance of public hospitals with financial and administrative
regulations and carrying out the monitoring and assessment of public hospital unions, or
any legal successor thereto.
16. 
"Resettlement" means the impact of an involuntary taking of land under the Project, which
taking causes affected persons to have their (a) standard of living adversely affected; (b)
right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and grazing land)
or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; (c)
access to productive assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (d) business,
occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily or
permanently.
17. 
"Training" means expenditures (other than those for consultants' services and non-
consulting services) incurred by the Borrower in connection with the carrying out of
seminars, workshops, including the reasonable travel costs (i.e. accommodation,
transportation and per-diem, inter alia) of trainees and trainers (if applicable), training
registration fees, catering, rental of training facilities and equipment, and printing services,
as well as training materials for the purposes of, and directly related to, the activities
described in the Project.
-18-
Section H. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty (60) days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually
in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition
of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01
(a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition
of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and
Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
