OFFMA
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8586-BR
Loan Agreement
(Additional Financing for the Teresina Enhancing Municipal Governance and
Quality of Life Project - Projeto de Melhoria da Qualidade de Vida e da Gestdo Municipal de
Teresina - PROGRAMA LAGOAS DO NORTE - ETAPA H Financiamento Adicional)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
MUNICIPALITY OF TERESINA
Dated 
, 
J 
201j
0
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8586-BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated / 
, 201, entered into between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTIO& AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") and the MUNICIPALITY OF
TERESINA ("Borrower") for the purpose of providing additional financing for the Original Project
(as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of eighty eight million Dollars ($88,000,000), as such
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance
with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the
project described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e)
of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time, in each case with the prior no-objection of the
Guarantor, through the Secretariat of National Treasury of the Guarantor's
Ministry of Finance, request any of the following Conversions of the terms of the
Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of the Loan
Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis
applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable Spread to a Variable
Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or
(C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a
Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate
applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on
the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.09. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit (as
said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of this Section), the
Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of one half of one percent
(0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-
paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The
Exposure Surcharge (if any) shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each
Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during which
the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit, the product of:
-2-
(A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the ratio of all (or, if the Bank
so determines), a portion of the Loan to the aggregate amount of all (or the
equivalent portions) of the loans made by the Bank to the Borrower, the
Guarantor and to other borrowers guaranteed by the Guarantor that are
also subject to an exposure surcharge, as said excess and ratio are
reasonably determined from time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the Bank's
financial exposure to the Guarantor which, if exceeded, would subject the
Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined from time to time by the
Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total financial
exposure to the Guarantor, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project through SEMPLAN in accordance with the provisions
of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project
is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS
4.01. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the Loan has been
validly registered by the Guarantor's Central Bank.
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Mayor of the Borrower.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Prefeitura Municipal de Teresina
Praga Marechal Deodoro, 860, Centro
64000-160 - Teresina, PI
Brasil
Facsimile:
(55-86) 3215-7522
-3-
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at 
) u " -c 
( 
,as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
MUNICIPALITY OF TERESINA
By
Authorized Representative
-4-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to modernize and improve the management capacity of the
Borrower in the financial, urban, environmental, service-delivery, and economic development
fields and to improve the quality of life of the low-income population of the Lagoas do Norte
Region.
The Project consists of the Original Project as modified below:
Part 1: Municipal Management Modernization, City Development, and Project Management
Strengthening the Borrower's management and technical capacity including by, inter alia:
(a) 
consolidating and improving the efficiency of the Borrower's financial and budget
management and planning capacity;
(b) 
strengthening the Borrower's environmental management capacity, including the
introduction of an environmental licensing and enforcement control system;
(c) 
reviewing the Borrower's organizational administrative structure to deliver
services and meet development needs;
(d) 
strengthening the Borrower's procurement management capacity;
(e) 
strengthening the Borrower's institutional capacity to manage water supply,
sanitation and drainage, including the preparation of procedures for supervising
works, operate and maintain selected related infrastructure;
(f) 
preparing engineering designs for selected works in the Borrower's territory;
(g) 
carrying out Project management, monitoring and evaluation, to support the PMU
to carry out the procurement, financial management, environmental, social and
other requirements of the Project; and
(h) 
strengthening the PMU's capacity in implementing the Project.
Part 2: Integrated Urban-Environmental Development in the Lagoas do Norte Region
Carrying out of activities to improve the delivery of basic urban services and the overall
environmental conditions in the Lagoas do Norte Region, including, inter alia:
(a) 
interventions to optimize water supply delivery;
(b) 
implementation of wastewater collection, transmission and treatment systems;
(c) 
execution of critical urban macro-and micro-drainage interventions;
-5-
(d) 
actions to recuperate the natural environmental aspects of the region's lagoon and
canal network, and the adjacent banks of the Parnaiba and Poti rivers;
(e) 
interventions in urban upgrading, and the rehabilitation and construction of green
spaces, parks, and leisure and community spaces;
(f) 
interventions to improve the local road network, traffic flow, access and safety in
the region; and
(g) 
undertaking resettlement of beneficiary families from areas of risk and from other
areas of Project intervention, and implementing housing improvements for other
eligible households.
Part 3: Social and Economic Development in the Lagoas do Norte Region
Carrying out of complementary interventions to Part 2 of the Project, including, inter alia:
(a) 
actions to strengthen community associations and other community groups in order
to improve the access of eligible families to the Project's social programs, cr&ches,
basic health and education services, etc.;
(b) 
undertaking of environmental and sanitary education and promotion activities;
(c) 
promotion of employment and income creation programs;
(d) 
renovation, expansion and construction of community facilities;
(e) 
promotion and facilitation of community mobilization and participation in all
aspects of the Project; and
(f) 
actions and activities aimed at preventing violence in Lagoas do Norte Region and
targeting selected vulnerable groups, and strengthening the Borrower's capacity to
manage citizen security programs.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
At all times during the execution of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain, until
completion of the Project:
(a) 
a unit within SEMPLAN, to be responsible for the overall coordination and
implementation of the Project (the "PMU"), such PMU to maintain staffing,
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank as set forth in the
Operational Manual, including inter alia, the following responsibilities:
(i) 
overall planning, coordination and monitoring of Project activities;
(ii) 
carrying out of Project procurement and contracting of the required works,
goods and consultants' services;
(iii) 
elaboration of the annual operational plans;
(iv) 
carrying out of the financial management of the Project;
(v) 
preparation and delivery to the Bank of: (A) disbursement requests; and
(B) Project information and Project management reports in accordance
with the format established in the Operational Manual; and
(vi) 
provision of assistance and documentation to external independent
auditors; and
(b) 
a Project Steering Committee (or "PSC"), presided by the Borrower's Mayor or its
designated representative, with the overall responsibility for providing policy
oversight and guidance for the implementation of the Project and with powers and
composition acceptable to the Bank as set forth in the Operational Manual. The
PSC shall be responsible, inter alia, for consulting on, acknowledging, and making
recommendations on, as the case may be:
(i) 
strategic guidelines for the implementation of the Project;
(ii) 
inter-institutional coordination of strategic alliances with stakeholders;
(iii) 
the annual operation plans for the Project; and
(iv) 
the annual auditing reports of the Project.
-7-
B. 
Operational Manual
1. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 5.01 of the General Conditions, the
Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out in accordance with the provisions of a
manual, satisfactory to the Bank (the "Operational Manual"), which shall detail the
procedures and guidelines for the execution, monitoring and evaluation of the Project,
including, inter alia:
(a) 
the functions, responsibilities, structure and composition of the PMU;
(b) 
the procedures for procurement of goods, works and services, as well as for
financial management and audits of the Project;
(c) 
the Performance Indicators; and
(d) 
the Environmental and Social Assessment and the Resettlement Policy
Framework.
2. 
The Operational Manual may be amended by the Borrower from time to time with the prior
approval of the Bank. In the case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational
Manual and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D. 
Safeguards: Environmental and Social Provisions
1 .
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 5.01 (b) of the General Conditions, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions and
recommendations of the Environmental and Social Assessment, the respective ESMP, the
Resettlement Policy Framework, the resulting Resettlement Plans and the procedures
outlined in the Operational Manual, when applicable.
2. 
Prior to initiating bidding procedures for works under the Project, the Borrower shall,
when applicable, submit to the Bank, for its review and approval a Resettlement Plan for
the population affected by the relevant works, to be prepared in accordance with the
Resettlement Policy Framework and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request, including the requisite environmental licensing; and prior to initiating works in
selected Project areas, implement the respective Resettlement Plan in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that any contractors that will carry out civil works under the
Project shall perform their work in accordance with the technical, environmental and social
-8-
practices for the Project, as set forth in the Environmental and Social Assessment and
respective ESMP.
4. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall maintain a dam safety panel with experts and terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank, which shall review the detailed engineering
designs for works for the flood control dike along the Parnaiba river under
Part 2 (d) of the Project prior to commencement of works.
(b) 
The Borrower shall ensure that contractors that will carry out said works shall
follow the safety standards and recommendations of the dam safety panel referred
to in paragraph (a) above.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and
on the basis of the Performance Indicators, acceptable to the Bank, set forth in the
Operational Manual. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester,
and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than sixty days after the end of the period
covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare
and furnish to the Bank, as part of the Project Report, not later than two months after the
end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering
the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions
of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall
cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for
each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of
such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
-9-
2. 
Consultants' Services. 
All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to the
corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the Procurement Guidelines, or
Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services
1 .
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The
following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive
Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and non-consultant services. 
The
Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following additional procedures:
(i) contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined to be
the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever
appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in
paragraph 2.52 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall
always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure
for such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid;
(ii) whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised in at
least one newspaper of national circulation in Brazil;
(iii) the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for joint-ventures (cons6rcios)
of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank in each
case;
(iv) the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of bids,
minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; and
(v) the purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, issue any change
order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the
quantity of goods (and related services) without any change in the unit prices or
other terms and conditions of sale.
(b) Shopping (including, in respect of goods and non-consultant services, pregdo
eletr6nico set forth in the Guarantor's Law No. 10520, of July 17, 2002).
- 10-
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality and
Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table specifies
the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, which may be
used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under
which such methods may be used.
Procurement Method
(a) Selection Based on the Consultants' Qualifications (CQS)
(b) Single-Source Selection (SSS)
(c) Selection under a Fixed Budget (FBS)
(d) Least-Cost Selection (LCS)
(e) Procedures set forth in Paragraphs 5.2. and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the
Selection of Individual 
Consultants
(f) Quality-Based Selection
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of: (a) Article II of the General Conditions; (b) this Section; and (c) such additional
instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures
in each Category.
- 11 -
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non-consulting
services, consultants' services, 
7,100,000 
100%
Training, and Operating Costs under
Part I of the Project
(2) Goods, works, non-consulting
services, consultants' services, and 
74,800,000 
100%
Operating Costs under Part 2 of the
Project
(3) Goods, works, non-consulting
services, consultants' services, 
5,880,000 
100%
Training, and Operating Costs under
Part 3 of the Project
(4) Front-end Fee 
Amount payable pursuant to
220,000 
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(5) Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Amount due pursuant to
Collar premium 
0 
Section 2.08 (c) of this
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
88,000,000
For the purposes of this table:
(a) 
the term "Non-consulting services" means the reasonable expenditures (none of
which would have been incurred absent the Project), incurred by the Borrower for
the implementation, management, coordination and supervision of the Project,
including: (i) logistics for workshops and training courses; (ii) topographic surveys
and mapping; (iii) undertaking and updating municipal cadastres; (iv) printing and
publishing services; and (v) community socio-environmental mobilization events;
(b) 
the term "Operating Costs" means the following management and supervision
costs, to the extent they would not have been incurred absent the Project, including,
inter alia: maintenance of office space, furniture and equipment; rental of office
space; communication costs; and
(c) 
the term "Training" means expenditures, other than those for consultants' services,
incurred in connection with the carrying out of training, including, inter alia,
trainers' fees, logistics, materials, and the reasonable and related travel costs
(including transportation, lodging, and per diem), but excluding items which can
be procured as goods, non-consulting services or consultants' services.
- 12 -
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed sixteen million Dollars ($16,000,000) may be made for
payments made prior to this date but on or after March 1, 2015, for Eligible Expenditures.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 15, 2021. The Bank will only grant an extension of the
Closing Date after the Guarantor's Ministry of Finance has informed the Bank that it agrees
with such extension.
- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying:
(a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment
Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary,
to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
November 15, 2021 
0.10000%
May 15, 2022 
0.10000%
November 15, 2022 
0.50000%
May 15, 2023 
0.50000%
November 15, 2023 
0.75000%
May 15, 2024 
0.75000%
November 15, 2024 
1.00000%
May 15, 2025 
1.00000%
November 15, 2025 
1.00000%
May 15, 2026 
1.00000%
November 15, 2026 
3.50000%
May 15, 2027 
3.50000%
November 15, 2027 
3.50000%
May 15, 2028 
3.50000%
November 15, 2028 
3.50000%
May 15, 2029 
3.50000%
November 15, 2029 
3.50000%
May 15, 2030 
3.50000%
November 15, 2030 
3.50000%
May 15, 2031 
3.50000%
November 15, 2031 
3.75000%
May 15, 2032 
3.75000%
November 15, 2032 
3.75000%
May 15, 2033 
3.75000%
November 15, 2033 
3.75000%
- 14 -
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
May 15, 2034 
3.75000%
November 15, 2034 
3.75000%
May 15, 2035 
3.75000%
November 15, 2035 
3.75000%
May 15, 2036 
3.75000%
November 15, 2036 
1.25000%
May 15, 2037 
1.25000%
November 15,2037 
1.25000%
May 15, 2038 
1.25000%
November 15, 2038 
1.25000%
May 15, 2039 
1.25000%
November 15, 2039 
1.00000%
May 15, 2040 
1.00000%
November 15,2040 
1.00000%
May 15, 2041 
1.00000%
November 15, 2041 
1.00000%
May 15, 2042 
1.00000%
November 15, 2042 
1.00000%
May 15, 2043 
1.00000%
November 15, 2043 
0.50000%
May 15, 2044 
0.50000%
November 15, 2044 
0.50000%
May 15, 2045 
0.50000%
November 15, 2045 
0.50000%
May 15,2046 
0.50000%
November 15,2046 
0.50000%
May 15, 2047 
0.50000%
November 15, 2047 
0.20000%
May 15, 2048 
0.20000%
November 15,2048 
0.20000%
May 15, 2049 
0.20000%
November 15, 2049 
0.20000%
May 15, 2050 
0.15000%
November 15, 2050 
0.15000%
-15-
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as
of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding
on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall
be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating
to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
- 16-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated
October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
3. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January
2011 (revised July 2014).
4. 
"ESMP" means "Environmental and Social Management Plan", as referred to in paragraph
5 below.
5. 
"Environmental and Social Assessment" means the Borrower's assessment of the Project
environmental and social impacts, dated November 2014, including provisions regarding
protection of natural habitats, protection of physical cultural resources and safety of dams,
and including an Environmental and Social Management Plan with recommended
mitigation measures for each negative impact identified, as such plan may be amended
from time to time with the prior approval of the Bank.
6. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
7. 
"Lagoas do Norte Region" means the northern part of the Borrower's territory, including
the neighborhoods of Acarape, Matadouro, Alvorada, SAo Joaquim, Nova Brasilia, Poti
Velho, Mafrense, Olarias, Aeroporto, 
Itaperu, Alto Alegre, 
SAo Francisco and
Mocambinho.
8. 
"Operational Manual" means the manual referred to in Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, dated February 2008, as the same may be amended from time to time with the
agreement of the Bank.
9. 
"Original Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement between the Bank and the
Borrower dated July 24, 2008, Loan No. 7523-BR, as amended.
10. 
"Original Project" means the Project described in the Original Loan Agreement.
11. 
"Parnaiba" and "Poti" are rivers in the Guarantor's territory.
12. 
"Performance Indicators" means the indicators to be used in the monitoring and evaluation
of the Project.
- 17-
13. 
"PMU" means the Unidade de Gerenciamento do Programa Lagoas do Norte-UGP, the
unit referred to in Section I.A. I (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, established pursuant
to the Borrower's Decree No. 6.028, dated July 2, 2004, as annually renewed.
14. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
15. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
October, 27, 2015 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
16. 
"PSC" means the "Project Steering Committee", the committee referred to in Section I.A. I
(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
17. 
"Resettlement Plan" means any plan prepared following the requirements of the
Resettlement Policy Framework and approved by the Bank.
18. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" means the Borrower's document dated November 2014,
defining the procedures for the involuntary resettlement of the population in the event it is
required in connection with the activities to be carried out under the Project, as said
framework may be amended form time to time with the Bank's prior approval.
19. 
"SEMPLAN" means Secretaria Municipal de Planejamento e Coordenaq.9o, the
Borrower's Secretariat of Planning or its successor or successors thereto.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually
in arrears on each Payment Date."
- 18-
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition
of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.0 1(b)."
- 19 -
