OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8612-VN
Loan Agreement
(Third Economic Management and Competitiveness Development Policy Operation)
between
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
,2016
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
-
A. Z 
, 2016, entered into between SOCIALIST
REPUBLIC 
OF VIETNAM ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing
financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The
Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of (a) the actions which
the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and (b) the Borrower's maintenance of an adequate
macroeconomic policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred fifty million Dollars
($150,000,000) as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement,("Loan").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided,
that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the
-2-
General Conditions. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To
this end:
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either
party, exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
-3-
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request; and
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program
or any action taken under the Program, including any action specified in
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, a situation
has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part
of it, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that
the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out
the Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Governor, or a Deputy Governor, of State
Bank of Vietnam.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
State Bank of Vietnam
49 Ly Thai To
Hanoi, Vietnam
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
VIETBANK 
412248 
(84-4) 3825 0612
Hanoi 
NHTWVT
-4-
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at Hanoi, Socialist Republic of Vietnam, as of the day and year
first above written.
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
L 
Ri bt
Title: 
a vsYnoy
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
0te 
k 
WQV
Title: 
WC.-
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I. 
Actions under the Pro2ram
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
A. 
Macroeconomic Stability
1. 
The Borrower, through State Bank of Vietnam, has publicly disclosed through its
official website the level of non-performing loans in commercial banks by end of
2015 in accordance with Circular 02/2013/TT-NHNN dated January 21, 2013 on
asset classification and provisioning as amended by Circular 09/2014/TT-NHNN
dated March 18, 2014 as evidenced through a letter dated March 22, 2016 provided
by State Bank of Vietnam to the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower, through the Ministry of Finance, has prepared an updated medium-
term debt management program for the period 2016-20, with strengthened risk
analysis based on additional scenarios and updated macroeconomic assumptions
as evidenced through an official letter of Ministry of Finance and excerpt of Report
11 1/BTC-NSNN dated February 19, 2016.
3. 
The Borrower, through State Treasury, has implemented Treasury Single Account
procedures in the State Bank of Vietnam, Vietcombank, and Agribank as
evidenced through a number of official letters on implementation provided by the
Ministry of Finance to the Bank.
B. 
Transparent, Efficient, and Accountable Public Sector
4. 
The Borrower, through the Ministry of Finance and State Economic Groups, has
implemented divestment of eighty (80) percent of five high-risk, non-core
businesses in six State Economic Groups consistent with Instruments on
Restructuring of State Economic Groups, as evidenced through a report on
implementation provided by the Ministry of Finance to the Bank.
5. 
The Borrower, through its Government, has implemented Decree Number
61/2013/ND-CP dated June 25, 2013 which has been replaced by Decree Number
87/2015/ND-CP dated October 6, 2015 adopting the audited reports on the public
dissemination of the key financial performance of all State Economic Groups, as
evidenced through a report on financial information disclosure provided by the
Ministry of Finance to the Bank.
-6-
6. 
The Borrower, through its National Assembly, has adopted the Public Investment
Law Number 49/2014/QH13 dated June 18, 2014 to establish a comprehensive
legal framework to improve capital spending efficiency; reduce public investment
fragmentation; and align public investments with national development plans and
improve public disclosure and transparency.
C. 
Business Enabling Environment
7. 
The Borrower, through its Government has adopted Resolution 19/NQ-CP dated
March 12, 2015, on key duties and solutions to improve business environment and
national competitiveness in 2015 - 2016 and enhance the Borrower's business
environment through the simplification of tax procedures for taxpayers.
8. 
The Borrower, through its Government, has adopted appropriate Implementation
Instruments in accordance with the Amended Law on Procurement.
9. 
The Borrower, through its Government, has adopted Decree Number 60/2015/ND-
CP dated June 26, 2015, eliminating limitations on foreign investors' participation
in public companies in selected areas of the stock market.
Section H. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
may specify by notice to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the
Front-end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the
Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan Allocated
(expressed in Dollars)
(1) Single Withdrawal 
$149,625,000
Tranche
(2) Front-end Fee 
$375,000
TOTAL AMOUNT 
$150,000,000
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank
is satisfied (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower, and (b) with
the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
D. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
-7-
1. 
the Borrower shall open, prior to presenting to the Bank the first request for
withdrawal from the Loan Accounts, and thereafter maintain a deposit account in
Dollar ("Foreign Currency Deposit Account") on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank. All withdrawals from the Loan Accounts shall be deposited by the
Bank into the Foreign Currency Deposit Account;
2. 
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into
the Foreign Currency Deposit Account, an equivalent amount in Vietnamese Dong
is accounted for in the Borrower's budget management system, in a manner
acceptable to the Bank; and
3. 
the Borrower, within forty-five (45) days after disbursement, through the State
Bank of Vietnam, shall report to the Bank: (i) the exact sum received into the
Foreign Currency Deposit Account which forms part of the Country's official
foreign exchange reserves; (ii) the details of the Treasury account to which the
Vietnamese dong equivalent of the Credit proceeds will be credited; (iii) the record
that an equivalent amount has been accounted for in the country's budget
management systems; and (iv) the statement of receipts and disbursement of the
Foreign currency Deposit Account.
E. 
Audit. Upon the Bank's request, the Borrower shall:
1. 
have the Foreign Currency Deposit Account audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards
acceptable to the Bank; and
2. 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four (4)
months after the date of the Bank's request for such audit, a certified copy of the
report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
F. 
Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any
time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded
Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an
amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to
the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
G. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is April 30, 2017.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning 
May 
15, 
2026 
through 
2.56%
November 15, 2044
On May 15, 2045 
2.72%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
-9-
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
- 10 -
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Amended Law on Procurement" 
means the Borrower's Law Number
43/2013/QH13, dated November 26, 2013, and referred to in Section I.C.8 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
2. 
"Circular 02" means the Borrower's Circular Number 02/2013/TT-NHNN dated
January 21, 2013 issued by State Bank of Vietnam on asset classification, risk
provisioning and utilization of provisioning by credit institutions and foreign bank
branches, as amended by Circular Number 09/2014/TT-NHNN dated March 18,
2014 issued by State Bank of Vietnam, and referred to in Section I.A of Schedule
1 to this Agreement.
3. 
"Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank has
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank has financed or agreed
to finance under another credit, grant or loan;
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986)
(the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions
to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item
112 
Alcoholic beverages
121 
Tobacco, un-
manufactured, tobacco
refuse
122 
Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not
containing tobacco
substitutes)
525 
Radioactive and
associated materials
667 
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and
parts thereof; fuel
elements (cartridges),
- 11 -
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing
machinery
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and
watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or
silversmiths' wares
(including set gems)
971 
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold ores and
concentrates)
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
agreements to which the Borrower is a party;
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United
Nations; and
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.
4. 
"Foreign Currency Deposit Account" means the account referred to in paragraph
I of Section II.D of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
5. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
6. 
"Implementation Instruments" means Decree 63/2014/ND-CP dated June 26,
2014 detailing the implementation of a number of provisions under Law on
Procurement on bidders selection, Decree 15/2015/ND-CP dated February 14,
2015 on Public Private Partnership Investment Form, dated February 14, 2015,
Decree 30/2015/ND-CP dated March 17, 2015 detailing the implementation of a
number of provisions under Law on Procurement on Investor Selection, Circular
- 12 -
01/2015/TT-BKHDT dated February 14 2015 detailing the preparation of
Requests for expression of interest, Bidding documents, Dossiers of requirements
for consultancy service, Circular 03/2015/TT-BKHDT dated May 6, 2015
detailing the preparation of construction and installation bidding documents,
Circular 05/2015/TT-BKHDT dated June 16, 2015 detailing the preparation of
bidding documents for procurement of goods, Joint Circular 07/2015/TT-BKHDT-
BTC dated September 8, 2015 detailing the online supply and posting of
procurement information and online contractor selection, Circular 10/2015/TT-
BKHDT dated October 26, 2015 detailing contractor selection planning, Circular
11/2015/TT-BKHDT dated October 27 detailing the establishment of request for
proposals in case of direct contracting and competitive offering, 2015, Circular
19/2015/TT-BKHDT dated November 27, 2015 detailing the establishment of
assessment report during contractor selection process, Circular 23/2015/TT-
BKHDT dated December 21, 2015 detailing the establishment of evaluation report
of bidding documents, and Circular 02/2016/T-BKHDT dated March 1, 2016
guiding the preliminary selection of projects, making, appraisal and approval of
project proposals and feasibility report of public private partnership investment
projects; as referred to in Section I. C.8 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
7. 
"Instruments on Restructuring of State Economic Groups" means Decision
Number 320/QD-TTg dated February 8, 2013, Decision Number 1782/QD-TTg
dated November 23, 2012, Decision Number 314/QD-TTg dated February 7, 2013,
Decision Number 38/QD-TTg dated January 5, 2013, Decision Number 753/QD-
TTg dated May 17, 2013, Decision Number 2097/QD-TTg dated December 28,
2012, and Decision Number 46/QD-TTg dated January 5, 2013.
8. 
"Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
referred to in the letter dated April 6, 2016 from the Borrower to the Bank declaring
the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting
assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its execution.
9. 
"Public Investment Law" means the Borrower's Law Number 49/2014/QH13
dated June 18, 2014.
10. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
11. 
"State Bank of Vietnam" means the Borrower's central bank, or any successor
thereto.
12. 
"State Economic Groups" means collectively Vietnam National Textile and
Garment Corporation (VINATEX), Vietnam Rubber Group (VINARUBBER),
Vietnam National Chemical Group (VINACHEM), Vietnam Oil and Gas Group
- 13 -
(PETROVIETNAM), Vietnam Military Telecommunications Group (VIETTEL),
Vietnam National 
Coal-Mineral Industries Holding Corporation Limited
(VINACOMIN), 
Vietnam 
Electricity 
(EVN), 
and 
Vietnam 
Posts 
and
Telecommunications Group (VNPT).
13. 
"Vietcombank" means the Joint Stock Commercial Bank for Foreign Trade of
Vietnam, a joint stock commercial bank established and operating under the laws
of the Borrower, or any successor thereto.
14. 
"Agribank" means the Vietnam Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development, a
state-owned commercial bank, established and operating under the laws of the
Borrower, or any successor thereto.
15. 
"Vietnamese Dong" means the lawful currency of the Borrower.
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. 
The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
- 14 -
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
