OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8617-KZ
Loan Agreement
(Social Health Insurance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
bQgmJe J 
,201S
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8617-KZ
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated W0?m bf 1-, 
2016, between REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE H -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of eighty million Dollars (USD
80,000,000) as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
not later than sixty days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
-2-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end,
all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project through its Ministry of Health and Social
Development (MoHSD), with the participation of the Social Health Insurance
Fund (SHIF) under the authority and purview of MoHSD.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following:
Any legislation, decree or regulation related to the Borrower's mandatory social
health insurance system (including specifically the system's functionality
responsible for collecting deductibles and contributions and procuring health care
provider services) has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so
as to affect materially and adversely: (i) the carrying out of the Project; and/or (ii)
the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The Borrower has formally, through an order of the MoHSD, established
the Project Management Unit (PMU), referred to in Section I.A.2 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(b) 
The Borrower, through the MoHSD, has adopted, to the satisfaction of the
Bank, the POM, which shall include the community monitoring
instrument and the grievance redress mechanism referred to in Part 3.C of
the Project, and the financial management procedures for the Project.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty (180) days after the
date of this Agreement.
-4-
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
11 Pobedy Avenue
Astana 010000
Republic of Kazakhstan
Telex: 
Facsimile:
265126 (FILIN) 
(7) (7172) 717785
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at 
AS 
DA 
L 
2f AS4 
as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
By
Authorized Representative
Name: /3ak , 
u2  anov
Title: /A 
if 
Jncnce
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name:r--M(( 
TO g0 
oyv/4
Title: 
0Atf( 
A rE.
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve accessibility, quality and efficiency of
health service delivery, and reduce financial risks to the population that are caused by
serious health problems.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. Provide support for the implementation of the Borrower's Social Health Insurance
(SHI) system
A. 
Establish and strengthen the organizational and institutional structure of the SHI
system through the provision of advisory services and capacity building in support
of the following activities:
(i) 
forecasting SHI revenues and improving the mechanisms for SHI revenue
collection;
(ii) 
planning the budget for the SHI system, based on the needs of the
population;
(iii) 
providing institutional support for the operation of the SHIF;
(iv) 
improving health care benefits packages; and
(v) 
improving the SHI information technology system for integration with the
Borrower's existing e-Health system.
B. 
Strengthen the purchasing and payment arrangements under SHI, through the
provision of advisory services and capacity building, to support the design and
piloting of the following reform activities:
(i) 
improving the purchasing arrangements and provider payment methods
for health services;
(ii) 
strengthening the purchasing arrangements for pharmaceuticals and health
technologies; and
(iii) 
improving the financial control mechanisms and technical audits used
within the SHI system.
-7-
Part 2. Strengthen the delivery of health services to support the implementation of the
Borrower's SHI system
A. 
Develop a health facility network, involving the:
(i) 
establishment of a public health service to increase the promotion of a
healthy lifestyle, reduce risk factors for non-communicable diseases,
strengthen the epidemiological surveillance system for outbreaks, and
build capacity in public health policy planning and health services
delivery;
(ii) 
provision of assistance to improve primary and secondary prevention and
to strengthen primary health care services, with a focus on managing non-
communicable diseases and performance-based services;
(iii) 
provision of support to implement prospective plans for developing a
health facility network; and
(iv) 
strengthening of the Borrower's emergency medical services.
B. 
Manage the quality of health care services, involving the:
(i) 
improvement of clinical practice 
by developing 
a system for
implementing, and monitoring the introduction of, clinical protocols;
(ii) 
further development of health technology assessments;
(iii) 
expansion of disease management programs; and
(iv) 
improvement of quality management mechanisms in health facilities and
development of a health facility accreditation program.
C. 
Strengthen human resources for health care through strategic partnerships,
involving the:
(i) 
improvement of the principles for managing and financing medical
science education;
(ii) 
improvement of the education process in line with international standards
to advance the quality of medical science education for health workers;
(iii) 
improvement of the system for independently assessing the knowledge
and skills of graduates of higher medical science education institutions and
health workers; and
-8-
(iv) 
provision of support for the improvement of human resources
management in health facilities.
Part 3. Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation, and Communications Strategy
A. 
Provision of support for Project management through:
(i) 
provision of advisory services, communications 
services, 
goods
(equipment for the Project Management Unit (PMU)), non-consulting
services and training;
(ii) 
carrying out of surveys for Project monitoring and evaluation; and
(iii) 
financing of Operating Costs of the PMU.
B. 
Provision of support for information, education and communication activities
concerning health service delivery structural reforms that are supported by the
Project.
C. 
Provision of support for the carrying out of citizen engagement activities,
including:
(i) 
annual multi-stakeholder forums held to present and receive feedback on
the progress of Project-related reforms;
(ii) 
implementation of a community monitoring instrument to track patient
perception of the improvements in the provision of health services; and
(iii) 
implementation of a proactive grievance redress mechanism for
addressing suggestions and complaints from beneficiaries and various
stakeholders.
-9-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, and
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through MoHSD, shall:
(a) 
be responsible for the overall implementation and oversight of the Project,
including providing sectoral policy oversight, stewardship and working
level coordination with concerned governmental agencies and regional
authorities;
(b) 
ensure that the requirements, 
criteria, policies, procedures and
organizational arrangements set forth in the POM are applied in
connection with the carrying out of the Project; and
(c) 
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive, or permit to be assigned, amended,
abrogated or waived, the POM, or any provision thereof, without the prior
consent of the Bank, or in a manner which, in the opinion of the Bank,
may materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
2. 
(a) 
The Borrower, through MoHSD, shall operate and maintain the PMU,
throughout Project implementation, under terms of reference and with
functions, all acceptable to the Bank, including, inter alia, responsibility
for: (i) coordinating the overall Project implementation; (ii) ensuring that
the requirements, criteria, policies, procedures and organizational
arrangements 
set forth in the POM are applied during Project
implementation; (iii) carrying out the procurement process, financial
management and preparation of withdrawal applications under the Project;
and (iv) monitoring and evaluating the progress of Project implementation
in accordance with indicators agreed upon with the Bank.
(b) 
The Borrower shall, under the purview of the MoHSD, ensure that the
PMU is, throughout Project implementation, adequately staffed by
personnel with qualifications, and under terms of reference, all satisfactory
to the Bank.
3. 
Not later than thirty (30) days after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall, through
an order of the MoHSD, establish, and thereafter maintain throughout Project
implementation, the Core Coordination Team for this Project, with a composition
(including staff of MoHSD, SHIF and PMU, and, as needed, representatives of
-10-
other institutions and government agencies), resources, and terms of reference, all
satisfactory to the Bank, to be responsible for providing sectoral policy oversight
over, and stewardship of, the Project, in addition to working-level coordination
with concerned governmental agencies and regional authorities.
4. 
The 
Borrower, 
through 
MoHSD, 
shall 
maintain 
throughout 
Project
implementation, the Joint Commission on Quality of Health Services (JCQHS) for
this Project, with a composition, resources and terms of reference, all satisfactory
to the Bank, necessary for, inter alia, developing recommendations for the
improvement of medical education standards, clinical protocols, drug provision,
and standards for control over quality and accessibility of health services.
5. 
The Borrower shall: (a) maintain, throughout Project implementation, the National
Health Care Coordination Council with resources and terms of reference, all
satisfactory to the Bank, necessary for carrying out the inter-sectoral policy
coordination responsibilities under the Project; and (b) ensure that the said council
comprises the representatives of all concerned Borrower agencies and regional
authorities.
6. 
The Borrower shall establish, and thereafter operate and maintain throughout
Project implementation, SHIF with a composition, resources and terms of
reference, all satisfactory to the Bank, to carry out the Project.
7. 
In the event that the Borrower is no longer the sole shareholder of SHIF:
(a) 
the Borrower, represented by MoHSD, shall enter into a subsidiary
agreement with SHIF, under terms and conditions approved by the Bank,
which include: (i) SHIF's undertakings to participate with MoHSD in
carrying out the Project in accordance with the relevant provisions set forth
in this Agreement and the Anti-Corruption Guidelines, and (ii) the terms
and conditions for SHIF benefiting from the activities carried out under
the Project; and
(b) 
the Borrower, represented by MoHSD, shall exercise its rights and carry
out its obligations under the said subsidiary agreement in such manner as
to protect the interests of the Borrower, as represented by MoHSD, and
the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
waive, terminate or fail to enforce the subsidiary agreement or any of its
provisions.
8. 
Not later than forty-five (45) days after the Effective Date, the Borrower, through
the MoHSD, shall develop and launch, within its existing automated accounting
software, a module to generate interim unaudited financial reports and to capture
the Project's accounts, all to the satisfaction of the Bank.
-ll-
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower, through MoHSD, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the
Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall
be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the
period covered by each such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower, through MoHSD, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of
the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall,
though MoHSD, prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of each Project Report,
interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the relevant calendar
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
Section HI. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods and non-consulting services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I
of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
-12-
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services
1 .
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional
provisions set forth in the Attachment to this Schedule 2; (b) Shopping; and (c)
Direct Contracting.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan: (a) Selection under a Fixed Budget; (b) Least Cost Selection;
(c) Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications; (d) Single-source Selection of
consulting firms in compliance with paragraph 3.8 of the Consultant Guidelines;
and (e) Single-source procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
-13-
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised
from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant
to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
exclusive of Taxes
(1) Non-consulting 
14,678,000 
100%
services, consultants'
services, and Training for
Part 1 of the Project
(2) Goods, non-consulting 
65,322,000 
100%
services, consultants'
services, and Training for
Parts 2 and 3 of the
Project, and Operating
Costs for Part 3 of the
Project
TOTAL AMOUNT 
80,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the
Front-end Fee;
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; or
-14-
(c) 
for payments under Category (1) for Part 1 of the Project, unless and until
the Borrower has furnished evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the
Borrower has formally established SHIF as provided in Section I.A.6 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2021.
-15-
Attachment
to
SCHEDULE 2
The procurement procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding shall be the
tender procedure set forth in the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Public Procurement
No. 434-V, dated December 4, 2015; provided, however, that such procedures shall be
subject to the provisions of Section I and Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Procurement
Guidelines and the following additional provisions:
(a) 
Eligibility: The eligibility of bidders to participate in a procurement process and to
be awarded a Bank-financed contract shall be as defined under Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines; accordingly, no bidder or potential bidder shall be
declared ineligible for contracts financed by the Bank for reasons other than those
provided in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines. Foreign bidders shall be
allowed to participate in National Competitive Bidding procedures, and shall not
be obligated to partner with local bidders in order to participate in a procurement
process.
(b) 
Registration: Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms, and foreign
bidders shall not be required to be registered with local authorities as a prerequisite
for submitting bids.
(c) 
Preferences: No preference of any kind shall be applied in bid evaluation on the
basis of bidder nationality; origin of goods, services or labor; local content; citizen
degree of ownership; and/or any other preferential programs.
(d) 
Bidding Documents: Procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard bidding
documents, including contractual provisions, satisfactory to the Bank.
(e) 
Cost Estimates: Cost estimates shall be confidential and shall not be disclosed to
prospective bidders.
(f) 
Bid Validity: An extension of bid validity, if justified by exceptional
circumstances, may be requested in writing from all bidders before the expiration
date and for a minimum period required to complete the evaluation or award a
contract, provided that such extension shall cover only the minimum period
required to complete the evaluation and/or award a contract, but not to exceed four
(4) weeks. No further extensions shall be requested without the prior written
concurrence of the Bank.
(g) 
Bid Submission and Bid Opening: Prospective bidders shall be given at least thirty
(30) days from the date of publication of the invitation to bid or the date of
availability of the bidding documents, whichever is later, to prepare and submit
bids. Bids shall be opened in public immediately after the deadline for their
-16-
submission. A copy of the bid opening minutes shall be promptly provided to all
bidders who submitted bids, and to the Bank with respect to contracts subject to
the Bank's prior review.
(h) 
Qualification: 
Qualification criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding
documents. All criteria so specified, and only such specified criteria, shall be used
to determine whether a bidder is qualified. Qualification shall be assessed on a
"pass or fail" basis, and merit points shall not be used. Such assessment shall be
based entirely upon the bidder's or prospective bidder's capability and resources
to effectively perform the contract, taking into account objective and measurable
factors, including: (i) relevant general and specific experience, and satisfactory
past performance and successful completion of similar contracts over a given
period; (ii) financial position; and where relevant (iii) capability of construction
and/or manufacturing facilities.
(i) 
Bid Evaluation: Evaluation criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding
documents. Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the quantifiable
criteria declared in the bidding documents. Evaluation criteria other than price
shall be quantified in monetary terms. Merit points and bracketing shall not be
used, and no minimum point or percentage value shall be assigned to the
significance of price, in bid evaluation. Bidders shall not be eliminated on the basis
of minor, nonmaterial deviations. The procuring entity shall ask bidders for
clarifications needed to evaluate their bids, but shall not ask or permit bidders to
change the substance or price of their bids after the bid opening.
(j) 
Contracts shall be awarded to the qualified bidder whose bid has been determined:
(i) to be substantially responsive to the bidding documents; and (ii) to offer the
lowest-evaluated cost. No negotiation as to the price or substance of the bid shall
take place.
(k) 
Rejection of Bids and Re-Bidding: No bids shall be rejected solely because they
fall below or exceed the estimated cost or outside of a range or "bracket" of bid
values. All bids (including in the case when less than two bids are received) shall
not be rejected, the procurement process shall not be cancelled, and new bids shall
not be solicited without the Bank's prior written concurrence.
(1) 
Guarantees: 
Bid and contract guarantees shall be in the format and have the
required period of validity specified in the bidding documents referred to in
paragraph (d) above. If required, bid security shall be expressed as a fixed amount
and shall not exceed two percent (2%) of the estimated cost of the contract. No
advance payments shall be made to contractors without a suitable advance payment
guarantee.
(in) 
Confidentiality: 
The process of bid evaluation shall be confidential until the
publication of contract award.
-17-
(n) 
Electronic Procurement Systems: Electronic procurement systems may be used,
provided that the Bank is satisfied with the adequacy of the systems, including
inter alia, that the system is secure, maintains the integrity, confidentiality, and
authenticity of bids submitted.
(o) 
Fraud and Corruption: 
In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each
bidding document and contract shall include provisions stating the Bank's policy
to sanction firms or individuals, found to have engaged in fraudulent, corrupt,
collusive, or obstructive practices as defined in the Procurement Guidelines.
(p) 
Inspection and Audit Rights: In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each
bidding document and contract financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
provide that bidders, suppliers, contractors and their subcontractors, agents,
personnel, consultants, service providers, or suppliers shall permit the Bank to
inspect all accounts, records and other documents relating to the bid submission
and performance of the contract and to have said accounts and records audited by
auditors appointed by the Bank. Acts intended to materially impede the exercise
of the Bank's inspection and audit rights provided for in the Procurement
Guidelines constitute an obstructive practice as defined in the Procurement
Guidelines.
(q) 
Publication of the Award of Contract: The procuring entity shall publish the
following information on contract award in a free and open access website or on
another means of publication acceptable to the Bank: (i) name of each bidder who
submitted a bid; (ii) bid prices as read out at bid opening; (iii) name and evaluated
price of each bid that was evaluated; (iv) name of bidders whose bids were rejected
and the reasons for their rejection; and (v) name of the winning bidder, price it
offered as well as the duration and summary scope of the contract awarded.
-18-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each April 15 and October 15
Beginning October 15, 2021 
5%
through April 15, 2031
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
-19-
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
-20-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
3. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
4. 
"Core Coordination Team" means the core coordination team for the Project,
referred to in Section I.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, or any successor or
successors thereto, acceptable to the Bank.
5. 
"e-Health system" is the system defined in the Ministry of Health Order No. 498,
dated September 3, 2013, titled "On approval of the Concept of electronic health
development of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2013-2020".
6. 
"General Conditions" means the 'International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans', dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
7. 
"Joint Commission on Quality of Health Services" or "JCQHS" means the Joint
Commission on Quality of Health Services, established pursuant to the MoHSD
Order No. 926, titled, "On establishment of the Joint Commission on Quality of
Health Services", dated November 30, 2015, and referred to in Section I.A.4 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, or any successor or successors thereto, acceptable
to the Bank.
8. 
"Mandatory Social Health Insurance Law" or "MSHI Law" means the Borrower's
Law No. 405-V 3PK, dated November 16, 2015, and titled "On Mandatory Social
Health Insurance", which sets forth the Borrower's system of mandatory social
health insurance.
9. 
"Ministry of Finance" means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower or any
successor or successors thereto.
10. 
"Ministry of Health and Social Development" or "MoHSD" means the Ministry of
Health and Social Development of the Borrower or any successor or successors
thereto.
-21-
11. 
"National Health Care Coordination Council" means the government-level policy
council, referred to in Section I.A.5 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, or any
successor or successors thereto, acceptable to the Bank.
12. 
"Operating Costs" means the operating costs directly incurred by the MoHSD in
carrying out Project implementation, management and monitoring, including the
following, all based on periodic budgets acceptable to the Bank: (a) PMU staffing
costs (which shall not be considered as advisory services under Part 3.A (i) of the
Project); (b) training, conferences, study tours and seminars for PMU staff; (c)
dissemination of Project related information; (d) office rent and utilities; (e) office
equipment insurance, maintenance and repair; (f) vehicle maintenance and repair;
(g) travel; (h) security; (i) communication; (j) bank charges; and (k) other
miscellaneous costs directly associated with the Project.
13. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
14. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
March 24, 2016, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines
and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
15. 
"Project Management Unit" or "PMU" means the Project management unit,
referred to in Section I.A.2 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, or any successor
or successors thereto, acceptable to the Bank.
16. 
"Project Operational Manual" or "POM" means the operational manual for the
Project acceptable to the Bank, outlining, inter alia, the institutional, reporting and
oversight, disbursement, procurement, and environmental and social management
arrangements for the implementation of the Project, including the community
monitoring instrument and the grievance redress mechanism referred to in Part 3.C
(ii) and (iii) of the Project, and the financial management procedures for the
Project, as the same may be amended from time to time with approval of the Bank,
and such term includes any schedules to the POM.
17. 
"Social Health Insurance" or "SHI" means the Borrower's mandatory social health
insurance created pursuant to the MSHI Law.
18. 
"Social Health Insurance Fund" or "SHIF" means the nonprofit, joint-stock
company referred to in the MSHI Law and Section I.A.6 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, or any successor or successors thereto, acceptable to the Bank.
19. 
"Training" means expenditures (other than those for consultants' services)
incurred for Project-related study tours, training courses, seminars, workshops and
-22-
other training activities, not included under goods or service providers' contracts,
including costs of (a) training materials, (b) training related space and equipment
rental, (c) travel, accommodation and per diem costs of trainees and trainers, (d)
trainers' fees, and (e) other training related miscellaneous costs, all based on an
annual budget agreed with the Bank.
Section H. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1 .
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan
amount at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement
(the "Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective
dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan
Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-
annually in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified
in the Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
-23-
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties
to the Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions,
including (but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance,
interest, the Front-end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default
Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a
Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread
Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount
payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
