OFCIAL
LOAN NUMBER 8581-JM
Loan Agreement
(Jamaica Disaster Vulnerability Reduction Project)
between
JAMAICA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
( 
, 2016
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8581-JM
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
, 2016, between JAMAICA
("Borrower") and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of thirty million Dollars ($30,000,000),
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Article 2.08 of this Agreement
("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.
-2-
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency;
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa;
or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Reference Rate and the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based
on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable Spread, or vice versa;
or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate
applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest
Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the
Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Article that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05(c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and the Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
The Project Implementing Entity's Charter has been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement and a substitute entity has not been agreed
by the Borrower and the Bank.
(b) 
The Project Implementing Entity shall have failed to comply with any of
its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following:
(a) 
Any event specified in paragraphs (a) of Article 4.01 of this Agreement
occurs.
(b) 
The event specified in paragraph (b) of Article 4.01 of this Agreement
occurs and is continuing for a period of sixty (60) days after notice of the
event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: namely, that
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and the
Project Implementing Entity.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following: namely, that the Subsidiary
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Project
Implementing Entity and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the Project
Implementing Entity in accordance with its terms.
-4-
5.03. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
case later than eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan, which
expires on August 10, 2017.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Finance and the Public Service.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance and the Public Service
30 National Heroes Circle
Kingston 4
Jamaica
Facsimile:
876-924-9291
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at Kingston, Jamaica, as of the day and year first above written.
JAMAICA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
AC 
1
Title: 
0w/uk wiC
C"V-yA 
GeWC 
vv ke 
C--e
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name:________
Title: CQk I N-A 
moico
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to enhance the Borrower's resilience to disaster and
climate risk.
The Project consists of the following components:
Component 1: Technical Assistance for Improved Disaster and Climate Resilience
Provision of goods, consultants' services and Training for:
(a) 
strengthening the seismic monitoring network;
(b) 
establishing a National Risk Information Platform to include the Coastal
Risk Atlas;
(c) 
preparing multi-hazard risk assessments for coastal areas, including
ecosystems-based analyses and micro zonation studies;
(d) 
supporting implementation of the National Building Code; and
(e) 
promoting public awareness related to climate change and disaster risk
management.
Component 2: Risk Reduction
Retrofitting, constructing or rehabilitating priority infrastructure (bridges and
urban drainage); retrofitting or constructing and equipping critical public facilities (schools
and fire stations); and establishing or improving coastal protection measures, all identified
in agreement with the Bank, through the provision of goods, works, and consultants'
services.
Component 3: 
Contingent Emergency Response
Improving the Borrower's response and recovery capacity in the event of an
Eligible Crisis or Emergency, as needed.
Component 4: Project Administration
Program management costs, including Project audits, monitoring and evaluation,
equipment, Training, and Operating Costs.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arran2ements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Implementing Entity is responsible for
implementation of the Project in accordance with the Project Operational Manual.
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Operational Manual is not amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived, in whole or in part, without the approval
of the Bank.
3. 
Within ninety (90) days of the effectiveness date of the Project, the Borrower shall
establish and maintain, throughout Project implementation, an Inter-Ministerial
Steering Committee, with composition, functions and responsibilities acceptable
to the Bank and set forth in the Project Operational Manual, including, inter alia,
responsibility to ensure that the Project achieves the Project development
objectives. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Inter-Ministerial Steering
Committee is co-chaired by representatives from the Project Implementing Entity
and PIOJ.
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that MLGCD and ODPEM contributes to the Project
risk identification and risk reduction activities, including the development and
implementation of training on the application of the National Building Code and
the enhancement of the seismic risk reduction capacity.
5. 
The Borrower shall ensure that MTM, MOEYI and MLGCD contribute to the
Project through the retrofitting, construction and/or rehabilitation and equipping of
national infrastructure, including, but not limited to, fire stations, bridges, urban
drainage, coastal protection, and schools.
6. 
The Borrower shall ensure that MEGJC contributes to the coordination of the
National Risk Information Platform to increase the Borrower's data sharing
capabilities and to integrate the hazard risk information into planning and
development.
7. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to ensure that the terms
of reference for any consultancy in respect of the Project shall be satisfactory to
the Bank, as reflected in the Procurement Plan.
-8-
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds
of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity under a subsidiary
agreement (the Subsidiary Agreement) between the Borrower and the Project
Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, which
shall include, inter alia: (a) the amount of the Loan proceeds allocated for
Components 1, 2 and 4 of the Project; (b) the terms and conditions for the Project
Implementing Entity's receipt of the Loan proceeds on a grant basis; (c) the
obligations of the Project Implementing Entity to take all actions to enable the
Borrower to comply with the pertinent obligations under this Agreement as
applicable to the Project; and (d) the pertinent provisions of this Agreement.
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the
Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, terminate, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions.
C. 
Contingent Emergency Response
1 .
In the event that an Eligible Crisis or Emergency arises and in order to ensure the
proper implementation of Component 3 of the Project, the Borrower, through the
Project Implementing Entity, shall:
(a) 
prepare an emergency financing plan ("Emergency Financing Plan")
which shall set forth detailed implementation 
arrangements 
for
Component 3, including: (i) designation of resources to be allocated to the
Project Implementing 
Entity for coordinating 
and implementing
Component 3; (ii) specific activities which may be included in Component
3, Eligible Expenditures required therefor ("Emergency Expenditures"),
and any procedures for such inclusion; (iii) financial management
arrangements for Component 3; (iv) procurement methods and procedures
for Emergency Expenditures to be financed under Component 3; (v)
documentation required for withdrawals of Emergency Expenditures; and
(vi) any other arrangements necessary to ensure proper coordination and
implementation of Component 3;
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to review said Emergency
Financing Plan and respond within a five (5) calendar day period;
(c) 
promptly adopt such Emergency Financing Plan for Component 3 as shall
have been approved by the Bank;
-9-
(d) 
ensure that Component 3 is carried out in accordance with the Emergency
Financing Plan and the CERC Action Plan, including through MLSS, in
the event that cash grants or transfers will be financed; provided, however,
that in the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of the
Emergency Financing Plan, the CERC Action Plan, and this Agreement,
the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail;
(e) 
not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provision of the
Emergency Financing Plan without prior approval by the Bank; and
(f) 
not undertake activities under Component 3 unless and until the Borrower
has determined that an Eligible Crisis or Emergency has occurred, has
furnished to the Bank a request to include said activities in Component 3
in order to respond to said Eligible Crisis or Emergency, and the Bank has
agreed with such determination, accepted said request and notified the
Borrower thereof.
2. 
In the event that an Eligible Crisis or Emergency arises and in order to ensure the
proper implementation of Component 3 of the Project, the Bank shall review the
Emergency Financing Plan and provide comments to the Borrower within five (5)
calendar days of receipt.
D. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
E. 
Safeguards
1 .
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
Environmental Management Framework ("EMF") and the Resettlement Policy
Framework ("RPF").
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the EMF and the RPF are not amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived, in whole or in part, without the approval of the
Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to ensure that the terms
of reference for any consultancy shall duly incorporate the requirements of the
Bank Safeguards Policies then in force, as applied to the advice conveyed through
such technical assistance.
4. 
Prior to the carrying out of any activities under Component 2 of the Project, the
Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare Environmental
Management Plans ("EMPs") in accordance with the EMF and to implement said
-10-
activities in accordance with the relevant EMP. Prior review by the Bank shall
only be required in connection with those activities that require an environmental
impact assessment, as determined by JSIF or NEPA in accordance with the EMF.
5. 
Prior to the carrying out of any activities under Component 2 of the Project that
require Resettlement, the Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to
prepare RAPs in accordance with the RPF, in form and substance satisfactory to
the Bank, and to carry out the Resettlement in accordance with the relevant RAP.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of six (6) months, and shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than four (4) months after the Closing Date.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank no later than forty-five (45) days after the end of
each quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering each
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. 
Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
-11-
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan:
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding;
(b) 
Shopping;
(c) 
Direct Contracting; and
(d) 
Community Participation procedures which have been found acceptable to
the Bank.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
-12-
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan:
(a) 
Quality-based Selection;
(b) 
Selection under a Fixed Budget;
(c) 
Least Cost Selection;
(d) 
Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications;
(e) 
Single-source Selection of consulting firms;
(f) 
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines
for the Selection of Individual Consultants; and
(g) 
Single-source procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants.
D. 
Procurement of Emergency Expenditures under Component 3 of the Project
Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in this Section, Emergency
Expenditures required for Component 3 of the Project shall be procured in
accordance with the procurement methods and procedures set forth in the
Emergency Financing Plan.
E. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised
from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant
to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
-13-
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, non-consulting 
3,465,000 
100%
services, consultants' services
for Component 1 of the Project
and Training for Component
1(a), (b), (c), and (e) of the
Project
(2) Training for Component 1(d) 
350,000 
100%
of the Project
(3) Goods, works, non- 
23,610,000 
100%
consulting services, and
consultants' services for
Component 2 of the Project
(4) Emergency Expenditures 
0
under Component 3 of the
Project
(5) Goods, non-consulting 
2,500,000 
100%
services, consultants' services,
Training and Operating Costs for
Component 4 of the Project
(6) Front-end Fee 
75,000 
Amount payable
pursuant to Article
2.03 of this
Agreement in
accordance with
Section 2.07(b) of
the General
Conditions
(7) Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
Amount due
Rate Collar premium 
pursuant to Section
2.08(c) of this
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
30,000,000
-14-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed one hundred
thousand Dollars ($100,000) may be made for payments made prior to this
date but on or after September 1, 2015, for Eligible Expenditures for
Training under Category (2);
(b) 
for payments made for Eligible Expenditures for Training under Category
(2), unless the Building Act has been enacted to enforce the National
Building Code; and
(c) 
for payments under Category (4) for Emergency Expenditures under
Component 3 of the Project, unless and until the Bank is satisfied, and has
notified the Borrower of its satisfaction, that all of the following conditions
have been met in respect of said activities:
(i) 
the Borrower has determined that an Eligible Crisis or Emergency
has occurred, has furnished to the Bank a request to include said
activities in Component 3 in order to respond to said Eligible
Crisis or Emergency, and the Bank has agreed with such
determination, accepted said request and notified the Borrower
thereof;
(ii) 
the Borrower has adopted an Emergency Financing Plan in form,
substance and manner acceptable to the Bank and the provisions
of the Emergency Financing Plan remain - or have been updated
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of this Schedule 2
so as to be - appropriate for the inclusion and implementation of
said activities under Component 3; and
(iii) 
the Borrower has ensured that no expenditures in the Emergency
Financing Plan finances salaries or any activities that are not in
compliance with the EMF or any of the Bank Safeguard Policies.
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2022.
-15-
SCHEDULE 3
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each January 15 and July 15
Beginning January 15, 2023 
2.22%
through July 15, 2044
On January 15, 2045 
2.32%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
-16-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
-17-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Bank Safeguards Policies" means the World Bank's operational policies and
procedures set forth in the World Bank's Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01,
4.04, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37, 7.50 and 7.60, as said manual is published under
the following website: www.worldbank.org/opmanual.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
4. 
"CERC Action Plan" means the Contingent Emergency Response Component
Action Plan, approved by the Bank as part of the Project Operational Manual,
setting forth the policies and procedures required for the Borrower to utilize Loan
proceeds for Component 3 of the Project.
5. 
"Coastal Risk Atlas" means a visualization toolbox to be used for the broad-based
visualization, identification, analysis and dissemination of information on coastal
hazards and risks primarily at the national and, where available, local level.
6. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
7. 
"Eligible Crisis or Emergency" means an event that has caused, or is likely to
imminently cause, a major adverse economic and/or social impact to the Borrower,
associated with a natural crisis or disaster, as determined pursuant to Section I, Part
C, paragraph 1 (f) of Schedule 2.
8. 
"Emergency Expenditure" means any of the Eligible Expenditures set forth in the
Emergency Financing Plan in accordance with the provisions of Section I, Part C,
paragraph 1(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and required for the activities
included in Part 3 of the Project, including cash grants and cash transfers provided
through MLSS.
9. 
"Emergency Financing Plan" means the plan referred to in Section I, Part C,
paragraph 1(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
10. 
"Environmental Management Framework" or "EMF" means the Project
Implementing Entity's framework dated November 18, 2015, approved by the
-18-
Board and duly published and available to the public on November 23, 2015, which
contains the guidelines for the carrying out of environmental assessments and for
the preparation and implementation of site-specific Environmental Management
Plans, as well as the environmental protection measures in respect of the Project,
including chance finding of cultural property, screening for natural habitats, and
potential direct and indirect environmental impacts from the carrying out of the
Project, recommendation of mitigation measures for each negative impact
identified, as well as measures for enhancing each identified positive impact, as
said framework may be amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the
Bank.
11. 
"Environmental Management Plan" or "EMP" means a site-specific environmental
management plan, prepared under the Project in accordance with the EMF,
describing the environmental mitigation measures anticipated for activities under
the Project and the parties responsible for monitoring of construction and
operational impacts.
12. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
13. 
"Inter-Ministerial Steering Committee" means the steering committee established
pursuant to Schedule 2, Section I, Part A, paragraph 3 of this Agreement.
14. 
"MIND" means the Borrower's Management Institute for National Development,
or any legal successor thereto.
15. 
"MLGCD" means the Borrower's Ministry of Local Government and Community
Development or any legal successor thereto.
16. 
"MLSS" means the Borrower's Ministry of Labour and Social Security, or any
legal successor thereto.
17. 
"MOEYI" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education, Youth and Information,
or any legal successor thereto.
18. 
"MTM" means the Borrower's Ministry of Transport and Mining or any legal
successor thereto.
19. 
"MEGJC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Economic Growth and Job Creation
or any legal successor thereto.
20. 
"National Building Code" means the Borrower's National Building Code made
pursuant to the proposed Building Act, to be enacted.
-19-
21. 
"NEPA" means the National Environment and Planning Agency, or any legal
successor thereto.
22. 
"National Risk Information Platform" means a system where all risk data can be
located and updated in a centralized platform accessible to government agencies
and the public.
23. 
"ODPEM" 
means the Office of Disaster Preparedness 
and Emergency
Management, established pursuant to Section 3 of the Disaster Risk Management
Act, or any legal successor thereto.
24. 
"Operating Costs" means the following reasonable operational expenses, which
would not have been incurred absent the Project, related to Project implementation,
management, and supervision and incurred by the Borrower: (i) costs for utilities,
maintenance and consumable office supplies, printing services, communication
services, commercial banking charges and fees, insurance, vehicle operation and
maintenance, and salaries of core professional and technical staff for Project
management, including a Program Manager, Supervision Engineers and specialists
in the areas of climate and disaster resilience, safeguards compliance, finance,
procurement and related project management areas; and (ii) transportation costs,
travel and per diem costs for Project staff who will carry out supervisory activities
under the Project.
25. 
"PIOJ" means the Planning Institute of Jamaica or any legal successor thereto.
26. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
27. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
December 10, 2015 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
28. 
"Project Implementing Entity" or "JSIF" means the Jamaica Social Investment
Fund, established pursuant to the Project Implementing Entity's Charter, for
purposes of assisting in building the Borrower's capacity to effectively implement
community-based programs aimed at social development, or any legal successor
thereto.
29. 
"Project Implementing Entity's Charter" means the Memorandum and Articles of
Association of JSIF, both dated February 26, 1996, by which JSIF was
incorporated under the Borrower's Companies Act, as said charter has been
amended to the date of this agreement.
-20-
30. 
"PIU" means the Project Implementing Unit within the Project Implementing
Entity, referred to in section L.A of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and
created on November 25, 2013.
31. 
"Project Operational Manual" means the manual satisfactory to the Bank, referred
to in Section I, Part A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such manual may be
amended from time to time with the Bank's prior approval, and including the
CERC Action Plan.
32. 
"Resettlement" means the impact of an involuntary taking of land under the
Project, which taking causes affected persons to have their: (i) standard of living
adversely affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including
premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset
acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) access to productive
assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (iv) business, occupation,
work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily or
permanently.
33. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" or "RAP" means a site-specific resettlement action
plan, acceptable to the Bank, prepared under the Project in accordance with the
"RPF" describing a program of actions, measures and policies for compensation
of persons, including compensation arrangements, budget and cost estimates, and
sources of funding, together with adequate institutional, monitoring and reporting
arrangements capable of ensuring proper implementation of, and regular feedback
on compliance with its terms for each site.
34. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the Project Implementing
Entity's policy framework for Resettlement, dated March 26, 2015, approved by
the Bank and duly published on JSIF's website on March 26, 2015 and on the
Bank's website on March 27, 2015, which contains: (i) a comprehensive overview
of the legal framework for land acquisition and resettlement in Jamaica,
differences between this framework and the requirements of Bank Safeguards
Policies, and measures necessary to bridge the gap between the legal framework
and the Bank Safeguards Policies; (ii) measures to screen out sub-projects that may
result in significant resettlement impacts (more than ten families); (iii) procedures
for the preparation and approval of abbreviated resettlement plans; (iv) details on
the overall institutional arrangements for resettlement action plan preparation,
implementation, monitoring and community consultation; (v) an entitlement
matrix highlighting the types of compensation and assistance that will be provided
to different categories of affected people, along with details on what valuation
techniques will be used to calculate the value of assets affected; and (vi) a
description of grievance redress arrangements, including the use of community
based conflict resolution mechanisms, as said framework may be amended from
time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank.
-21-
35. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section .B of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the
proceeds of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity.
36. 
"Training" means the reasonable costs, as shall have been approved by the Bank,
for training and workshops conducted under the Project, including tuition, travel
and subsistence costs for training and workshop participants, costs associated with
securing the services of trainers and workshop speakers, rental of training and
workshop facilities, preparation and reproduction of training and workshop
materials, and other costs directly related to training course and workshop
preparation and implementation (but excluding goods and consultants' services).
Section H. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan
amount at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement
(the "Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective
dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan
Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-
annually in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified
in the Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
