OFFICIAL
IDOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8517-PE
Loan Agreement
(Lima Metro Line 2 Project - Construcci6n de la Linea 2y RamalAv. Faucett-Gambetta
de la Red Bdsica del Metro de Lima y Callao, Provincias de Lima y Callao,
Departamento de Lima)
between
REPUBLIC OF PERU
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated APRIL 12- 
2016
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated AfRIL 12. 
, 201G, between the REPUBLIC OF PERU
("Borrower") and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank").
WHEREAS 
the 
Borrower 
intends 
to obtain 
from the 
Inter-American
Development Bank (IADB) a loan (the IADB Loan), in an amount equivalent to
$300,000,000 United States Dollars to assist in the financing of the Project on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Co-financing Agreement providing for the IADB Loan, to
be entered into between the Borrower and the IADB.
WHEREAS the Borrower intends to obtain from the Development Bank of Latin
America (CAF) a loan (the CAF Loan), in an amount equivalent to $150,000,000 United
States Dollars to assist in the financing of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Co-financing Agreement providing for the CAF Loan, to be entered into
between the Borrower and the CAF.
Therefore, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of three hundred million United States
Dollars ($300,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08
of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in
Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower's Representative for
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this
-2-
Section is the Minister of Economy and Finance or the Borrower's Director of
Indebtedness and Public Treasury of its Ministry of Economy and Finance, or
any person whom any of them shall designate in writing.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
not later than 60 days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter
of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by
the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
-3-
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project, through MTC (through AATE), all
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consist of the following, namely, that the
Lima Metro Line 2 Concession Agreement has been amended, suspended,
terminated, abrogated, repealed, waived, whether in whole or in part, or the
Borrower failed to enforce or comply with, any of its provisions, that following
consultation with the Borrower and in the sole opinion of the Bank, may affect
materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under this Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following, namely that the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of ninety (90) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to
the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
the Independent Supervision Agency referred to in Section I.A.6 of this
Agreement has been hired.
(b) 
the Operational Manual has been adopted by MTC, OSITRAN (for those
aspects relevant to OSITRAN's role in the Project) and AATE.
-4 -
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower's
Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance, provided that the
Borrower's Director of Indebtedness and Public Treasury may, by him or herself,
represent the Borrower to sign amendments and/or notices to this Agreement
which are considered of an administrative and non-financial nature. The signing
by such Director of an amendment and/or notice shall constitute a representation
by the Borrower that any such amendment and/or notice is considered to be
administrative and non-financial in nature.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Jr. Junin 319
Cercado
Lima, Perd
Facsimile:
(511) 626-9921
With copies to:
Ministry of Transport and Communications
Jr. Zorritos 1203
Cercado
Lima, Peru
Facsimile:
(5 11) 6 15-7578
Autoridad Aut6noma del Sistema Elictrico de Transporte Masivo
de Lima y Callao (AATE)
Av. Aviaci6n 2494
San Borja
Lima, Peru
Facsimile:
(511) 224-2444
-5-
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at 
L. vT A 
eZPJ ()L0 
go P 
:2 
, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF PERU
By
uthorized Representative
Name 
ALONSO 
SEGURA VaSi
Title MIN1ISrRO DE 
om 
INANZA
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By_ 
___
Authorized Representative
Name 
_____________________
Title 
ccoorg,4 
-,PJA
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to provide a major east-west axis (Ate-Lima-
Callao) of the Lima-Callao Metropolitan Region with a modem and integrated mass
transit system that will improve accessibility to jobs and services in the area of influence
of the Lima Metro Line 2 and the Gambetta Branch of Line 4.
The Project consists of the following single Part:
Support for the Construction of the Lima Metro Line 2
Provision of support for the construction of the Lima Metro Line 2, which shall include:
(a) the construction of 35 stations with, at a minimum, physical integration to the existing
Metro Line I and Metropolitano BRT; (b) construction of approximately 27.3 km of
tunnel along the Line 2 corridor with one rail yard; (c) construction of approximately
7.7 km segment of the future Line 4 with one rail yard; and (d) the provision and
installation of the necessary rolling stock, electrical, control, telecommunications, and
fare systems for operation of the Metro Line 2.
-7-
SCHEDULE2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower, through MTC (through AATE) shall maintain at all times during
the execution and until completion of the Project a structure with key staff and
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, as described in the Operational Manual,
including management and coordination of the Project (including coordination
with Co-financers), coordination of the strategy for citizen engagement and
communications and, the oversight of grievance redress mechanism.
2. 
The Borrower, through MTC, AATE and OSITRAN, shall adopt and carry out
the Project in accordance with a manual (the Operational Manual), satisfactory to
the Bank, which shall include supervision and reporting requirements for the
carrying out of the Project, including the following: (a) the description of Project
implementation activities and institutional arrangements of the Project, including
details regarding the respective roles of MTC, AATE and OSITRAN; (b) the
Project administrative, accounting, auditing, reporting, financial (including cash
flow aspects), and disbursement procedures; (c) the Safeguard Instruments; (d)
the monitoring indicators for the Project; (e) organization and staffing of the
finance and administrative units of MTC and AATE; (f) detailed process and
procedures for budget preparation and approval, including coordination between
MTC, AATE and OSITRAN; (g) harmonized financial reporting, including
content and format of the joint financial statements; (h) harmonized auditing
arrangements, including single set of audit terms of reference; and (i) terms of
reference for the hiring of the international consulting firm that will assist
OSITRAN in the supervision of the technical aspects of the Lima Metro Line 2
Concession Agreement. 
In the event that any provision of the Operational
Manual shall conflict with this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall
prevail.
3. 
The Borrower, through MTC shall, not later than six (6) months after the
Effective Date:, (a) prepare and furnish to the Bank a plan already approved for
the institutional strengthening of AATE and other national agencies involved in
the planning, implementation and supervision of the future Lima Metro network,
including the consolidation of teams with adequate capacity to manage and report
on, inter alia: (i) status and changes to the Concession Agreement; (ii) loan
disbursements; 
(iii) 
physical 
and 
financial 
progress 
of the 
project;
(iv) monitoring, evaluation and reporting of the Project; 
(v) social and
environmental safeguards; (vi) coordinated strategy for social participation and
communicatioo; (vii) monitoring mechanisms for dispute resolution; and (b)
provide for adequate financing of measures included in said plan.
4. 
The Borrower, through AATE shall, not later than six (6) months after the
Effective Date: (a) prepare and furnish to the Bank an approved plan, including
an implementation schedule, for the multi-modal integration of transport services
and accessibility for the initial phase of the Lima Metro Line 2 (Phase lA and IB
of the Project); and (b) provide for adequate financing of measures included in
said plan.
5. 
The Borrower, through MTC and AATE shall, not later than six (6) months after
the Effective Date, enter into a tripartite framework agreement, under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank, with the Municipalities of Lima and Callao to
establish commitments on, inter alia: (a) plans and mechanisms for the physical
integration of the Lima Metro Lines 1, 2, and the Metropolitano BRT and other
bus systems; (b) studies for the establishment of an integrated single fare ticket
between Metro Lines 1, 2, and Metropolitano BRT; (c) the reorganization of
feeder bus routes and regulation of public transport services around Lima Metro
Line 2; and (d) plans for the improvement of public spaces and facilities for
pedestrian, bicycles and traffic management around stations conforming Lima
Metro Line 2.
6. 
The Borrower shall cause OSITRAN to select and contract, and thereafter
maintain throughout the Project, a supervision firm, independent from the
Borrower (Independent Supervision Agency) with experience and qualifications
acceptable to the Bank, for the provision of supervision support to OSITRAN,
particularly focused on the design, construction, social-environmental and safety
management aspects of the Project, all in accordance with the specifications
included in the Operational Manual.
7. 
The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank, following the procedures
established in the Operational Manual, of any material modifications to the Lima
Metro Line 2 Concession Agreement, including, without limitations: (a) a
material extension of the stipulated time for performance of the Concession
Agreement; (b) substantial modifications of the scope of the terns and conditions
of the Concession Agreement that in the opinion of the Bank materially affects
the obligations set forth in the Loan Agreement; 
(c) modifications or
amendments to the Concession Agreement that singly or jointly result in an
increase of the original value of the Concession Agreement by more than 15%;
and (d) a proposed termination of the Concession Contract.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
-9-
C. 
Safeguards
1. 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph I above, the Borrower, through
MTC (through AATE) shall ensure that the Concessionaire shall: (a) carry out
the Project in accordance with the provisions and requirements of the Safeguard
Instruments, in a manner to adequately mitigate any adverse environmental,
social, health and safety impacts caused by the design, construction and/or
operation of the Project; and (b) establish and maintain throughout Project
implementation, adequate institutional capacity, including staff and systems as
shall be necessary to fully implement, manage, coordinate and monitor the
implementation of the Safeguard Instruments.
2. 
The Borrower, through MTC (through AATE), prior to the commencement of the
civil works for a specific Phase of the Lima Metro Line 2 under the Project, shall
ensure that: (a) if land acquisition or resettlement is necessary for carrying out
the works on such respective Phase, a corresponding RAP is prepared in form
and substance satisfactory to the Bank (which RAP shall be prepared in
accordance with the provisions of the PACRI) and all resettlement measures set
forth in the applicable RAP shall have been fully executed, including the full
payment of compensation prior to displacement and/or the provision of relocation
assistance to all displaced persons; (b) all land acquisition required for such civil
works shall have been concluded and such land shall be free of encumbrances
and ready to be handed over, all in a manner acceptable to the Bank; and (c) all
plans, programs and actions as required by the applicable Safeguards Instruments
have been fully developed and shall have entered into effect.
3. 
Without limitation to the provisions of this Section, the Borrower shall, through
MTC (through AATE) in coordination with the Concessionaire: (a) maintain and
publicize the availability of grievance procedures for purposes of handling
complaints raised in relation with the implementation of the Project; and (b)
thereafter take all measures necessary to implement the decisions made by the
Borrower, through AATE, under such grievance procedures, in accordance with
the Safeguard Instruments and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
Section II. 
Pro*ect Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower, through AATE, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators included in the
Operational Manual and acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover
the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later
than one month after the end of the period covered by such report.
- 10 -
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
I. 
The Borrower, through AATE, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09
of the General Conditions, as described in the Operational Manual.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower,
through AATE, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five
(45) days after the end of each calendar semester interim unaudited financial
reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory
to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through AATE, shall have its Financial Statements audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of
the Borrower, or any other period agreed with the Co-Financers and the Bank
(not exceeding 18 months). The audited Financial Statements for each such
period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than four (4) months after the end
of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works. Non-consulting
Services and Consulting Services
1. 
Public Private Partnership Arrangements. 
Goods, works, non-consulting
services and consultant services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Procurement under Public Private Partnership Arrangements in
accordance with procedures which have been found acceptable to the Bank, as
set forth in Paragraph 3.14(a) of the Procurement Guidelines.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower, through MTC (through AATE), may withdraw the proceeds of the
Loan in accordance with the provisions of Article 1l of the General Conditions,
this Section, and such additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice
to the Borrower (including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for
Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
Cate2ory 
(expressed in USD) 
financed
(exclusive of Taxes)
Goods, works, non-consulting 
300,000,000 
100%
services and consultant
services
TOTAL AMOUNT 
300,000,000.
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the
Front-end Fee; or
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $60,000,000
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or
after February 25, 2015 (but in no case more than one year prior to the
date of this Agreement), for Eligible Expenditures.
- 12 -
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2021.
C. 
Other Undertakings
The Borrower shall, not later than January 31 of each year of Project
implementation, furnish to the Bank a financial plan, acceptable to the Bank, for
the upcoming Fiscal Year of the Borrower, showing cost estimates and sources of
funding for the completion of works and other Project activities planned for the
respective Fiscal Year.
- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning May 15, 2021 
4.55%
through May 15, 2031
On November 15, 2031 
4.45%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating
- 14-
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date counencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (a) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
- 15 -
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"AATE" means Autoridad Aut6noma del Sistema Elgctrico de Transporte Masivo
de Lima y Callao, the Borrower's Executing Agency for the Electric System of
Massive Transportation of Lima and Callao, created as a special project by
Urgency Decree No. 063-2009.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing 
and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
4. 
"Co-financiers" 
means 
the Inter-American 
Development 
Bank 
and the
Development Bank of Latin America (Corporaci6n Andina de Fomento - CAF).
5. 
"Co-financing" means, for purposes of paragraph 16 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, an amount of $450,000,000 to be provided by the Co-
financier to assist in financing the Project.
6. 
"Co-financing Agreements" means the agreements to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Co-financiers providing for the Co-financing.
7. 
"Concessionaire" means Metro de Lima Linea 2, S.A., Lima Metro Line 2 a
company (Concesionario) registered in the Borrower's territory pursuant to
writing No 13212416 dated April 15, 2014 and constituted by COSAPI S.A,
SALINI 
IMPREGILO 
S.P.A., 
IRIDIUM 
CONCESIONES 
DE
INFRAESTRUCTURA SA., VIALIA SOCIEDAD GESTORA DE CONCESIONES
DE INFRAESTRUCTURA S.L., ANSALDOBREDA 
S.P.A. and ANSALDO STS
S. P. A.
8. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
9. 
"EIA" or "Environmental Impact Assessment" means "Estudio de Impacto
Ambiental Semi-Detallado del Proyecto de Construccidn de la Linea 2 y Ramal
Av. Faucett-Gambetta de la Red Bisica del Metro de Lima y Callao" as approved
by DGASA through Resolution No. 459-2013-MTC on November 11, 2013,
acceptable to the Bank and published in MTC's website on November 11, 2013
and in Infoshop on November 24, 2014, which includes an environmental and
social mitigation plan incorporating programs and measures for solid and liquid
-16-
waste management, air emissions, noise, vibrations, green areas, community
health, environmental liabilities, worker health and safety, traffic management,
infrastructure 
services, 
training, 
spill 
and 
contingencies, 
emergencies,
environmental monitoring, community participation, community relations, local
contracting, purchase of local services and closure.
10. 
"ESMM" or "Environmental and Social Management Manual" means the chapter
of the Operational Manual that describes the measures to manage potential direct
and indirect environmental, social, health and safety risks associated with the
implementation of the Project, together with the adequate institutional,
monitoring and reporting arrangements to comply with: (i) the EIA and the
Supplemental EIA; (ii) the PACRI and the applicable RAP; (iii) environmental,
social, and health and safety requirements established in the Lima Metro Line 2
Concession 
Agreement; 
(iv) 
Bank's 
Safeguards 
Policies 
OP/BP 
4.01
(Environmental Assessment), OP/BP 4.09 (Pest Management), OP/BP 4.11
(Physical Cultural Resources) and OP/BP 4.12 (Involuntary Resettlement), set
forth in the Bank's Operational Manual (w-ww.WorldBank.org/opmanual); and
(v) when necessary, with a site-specific action plan prepared in accordance with
the respective Safeguard Instrument, to fulfill the requirements set forth in (i),
(ii), (iii) and (iv) above.
11. 
"Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower starting on January 1" each
year and ending on December 3 1" of the same calendar year.
12. 
"Gambetta Branch of Line 4" means the future branch of Line 4 of the Lima
Metro to be located in the road axis of Faucett Avenue from Oscar R. Benavides
Avenue to Ovalo 200 Millas in Gambetta Avenue, that will consist of
approximately 7.7 km and that will include the following stations: Gambetta,
Canta Callao, Bocanegra, Aeropuerto, El Olivar, Quilca, Morales Duirez, and
Carmen de la Legua-L4.
13. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section 11 of this Appendix.
14. 
"Independent Supervision Agency" means the agency referred to in Section I.A.5
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
15. 
"Lima Metro Line 2" means the proposed east-west corridor of the Lima Metro
system connecting the eastern district of Ate-Vitarte with the constitutional
province of Callao including the central districts of Lima and the port of Callao,
covering the following districts: Ate, Santa Anita, San Luis, El Agustino, La
Victoria, Breia, Jesus Maria, Lima, San Miguel, La Perla, Bellavista, Carmen de
la Legua, and Callao.
-17-
16. 
"Lima Metro Line 2. Concession Agreement" means the agreement for the design,
construction, operation and maintenance of the 35 km Metro Line 2 and future
branch of Line 4 of the Lima Metro, entered into between the Borrower, acting
through MTC, and the "Sociedad Concesionario Metro de Lima Linea 2, S.A."
and signed on April 28, 2014.
17. 
"Lima-Callao Metropolitan Region" means the Municipality of Lima and the
Constitutional Province of Callao.
18. 
"Metropolitano BRT" means Lima's bus rapid transit integrated transport system.
19. 
"MTC" means Ministerio de Transportes y Comunicaciones, the Borrower's
Ministry of Transport and Communications.
20. 
"Operational Manual" means the manual referred to in Section L.A of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
21. 
"OSITRAN" means Organismo Supervisor de la Inversidn en Infraestructura de
Transporte de Uso Priblico, the Borrower's agency in charge of supervision
infrastructure investments in the transport sector, created pursuant to Law No.
26917 of January 22 of 1998.
22. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
23. 
"RAP" or "Resettlement Action Plan" means: (i) the Borrower's resettlement
action plan for Phase 1 of the Project (as such "Phase IA" of the Project is
defined in the Lima Metro Line 2 Concession Agreement), acceptable to the
Bank and approved according to the Borrower's legislation, published in the
Bank's InfoShop on February 11, 2015 and in the Borrower's website on
March 06, 2015 (http//www.mtc.gob.pe), as such plan may be amended from
time to time with the prior approval of the Bank, which includes, inter alia: (i) a
program of actions, measures and policies for compensation of persons, including
compensation arrangements, budget and cost estimates, and sources of funding,
together with adequate institutional, monitoring and reporting arrangements
capable of ensuring proper implementation of, and regular feedback on
compliance with its terms for each site; or (ii) any site-specific resettlement
action plan, acceptable to the Bank, prepared under the Project in accordance
with the PACRI and local legislation, describing a program of actions, measures
and policies for compensation of persons, including compensation arrangements,
budget and cost estimates, and sources of funding, together with adequate
institutional, monitoring and reporting arrangements capable of ensuring proper
implementation of, and regular feedback on compliance with its terms for each
site, collectively referred to as "RAPs".
- 18-
24. 
"Resettlement" means the impact of an involuntary taking of land under the
Project, which taking causes affected persons to have their: (i) standard of living
adversely affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including
premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset
acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) access to productive
assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (iv) business,
occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily
or permanently.
25. 
"Resettlement Framework or PACRI" means Plan de Compensaci6n y
Reasentamiento Voluntario the Borrower's involuntary resettlement framework
for the Project acceptable to the Bank and approved according to the Borrower's
legislation, approved and published in the Bank's InfoShop and in AATE's
website on November 11, 2013, as such framework may be amended from time
to time with the prior approval of the Bank, which includes, inter alia, specific
guidelines and procedures to be followed in the event that Resettlement is caused
during Project implementation.
26. 
"Safeguard Instruments" means: (i) the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA);
(ii) Supplemental EIA; (iii) the Environmental and Social Management Manual
(ESMM); (iv) the Resettlement Policy Framework (PACRI); (v) the applicable
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP); and (vi) the environmental, social and health
and safety requirements established in the Lima Metro Line 2 Concession
Agreement.
27. 
"Supplemental EIA" means "Analisis Complementario al Estudio de Impacto
Ambiental Semi-Detallado del Proyecto Construccidn de la Linea 2 y Ramal Av.
Faucett-Gambetta de la Red Bdsica del Metro de Lima y Callao, Provincias de
Lima y Callao, Departamento de Lima" the Borrower's complementary
assessment dated October 31, 2014, acceptable to the Bank and approved
according to the Borrower's legislation, published and available to the public in
the Bank's InfoShop on November 24, 2014, and in MTC's website on March
31, 2015 (http//www.mtc.gob.pe).
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs
below.
- 19 -
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
(60) days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which
amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled.
The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each
Payment Date.
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the
Front-end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if
any), any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early
termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any
premium payable upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar, and any Unwinding Amount'payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
