OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8674-MD
Loan Agreement
(Second Development Policy Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
7'/y)efl 
, 2016
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8674-MD
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated )eqmAe 
e 
af,, 
2016, entered into between REPUBLIC OF
MOLDOVA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program
(as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to provide this financing
on the basis, inter alia, of (i) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program
and which are described in Section I.A of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and (ii) the Borrower's
maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank
therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of twenty-seven million two hundred thousand United
States Dollars (US$27,200,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement ("Loan").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%), of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than
sixty days after the Effective Date.
2.04 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, however, that
the interest payable shall in no event be less than zero percent (0%) per annum; and
provided furthermore that, upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount
of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such
amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the
General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn
Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of
-2-
thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as
provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest
rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the
Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
2.09. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 of Section II of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall promptly
furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this Article II as the Bank
may, from time to time, reasonably request.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this
end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework and the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for
its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section,
the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have the
-3-
effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action taken
under the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule I to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a situation has
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be
carried out.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out
the Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework; and
(b) 
The Financing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all conditions
precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
under it (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement) have been fulfilled.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Constantin TAnase Street, 7
MD-2005 Chisinau
Republic of Moldova
Facsimile: (37322) 221307
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at (au,)na/ 
, 
t 
Pehtd4e 
11/4/1!Val, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
By
By 
O~~u 
thorized Represen ta atiive e
Name: 
,VW2. 
1 
6/'r7112/1/
Title: 
/Irll 
lon el
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Namrne: We 'X Q?'i 
tr/e
Title:____________
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
A. 
Actions Taken Under the Program. The actions taken by the Borrower under the
Program include the following:
Pillar A: 
Strengthen the regulatory framework to improve predictability of the
business environment, facilitate competition 
and reduce regulatory
compliance costs
1 .
The Borrower has enacted amendments to the Law on State Control of Entrepreneurial
Activity (Law No. 131 dated June 8, 2012 and published in the Official Gazette
No. 181-184/595 on August 31, 2012) which aim to reduce compliance costs of state
inspections, as evidenced by Law No. 230 on Amendment and Completion of Some
Legislative Acts, dated September 23, 2016, and published in the Official Gazette
No. 369-378 on October 28, 2016.
2. 
The Borrower has issued a decree establishing an institutional mechanism for information
collection on all state aid under the Law on State Aid (Law No. 139 dated June 15, 2012
and published in the Official Gazette No. 166-169a/565 on August 16, 2012) and state aid
secondary legislation, as evidenced by Decision No. 378 on Approving the Concept of
Automated Information System: State Aid Register, dated May 27, 2014 and published in
the Official Gazette No. 142-146/427 on June 3, 2014.
Pillar B: 
Strengthen financial sector stability, promote transparency of shareholding
and ease conditions for access to finance
3. 
The Borrower has enacted amendments to the Law on the National Bank of Moldova
(Law No. 548-XIII, dated July 21, 1995, published in the Official Gazette No. 56-57/624
on October 12, 1995, and republished in the Official Gazette No. 297-300/544 on October
30, 2015) to consolidate the corporate securities registration function into a single central
securities depository, as evidenced by the enactment of Law No. 62 on Amending and
Supplementing Certain Acts, dated April 8, 2016 and published in the Official Gazette
No. 123-127/248 on May 6, 2016.
4. 
The Borrower has enacted legislative amendments to strengthen the independence of
financial market supervisors by: (i) strengthening the framework for contesting acts of the
National Bank of Moldova related to banking regulation and supervision; (ii) providing
legal protection to all employees of the National Bank of Moldova and of the National
Commission for Financial Markets in case of lawsuits for actions taken in good faith; and
(iii) removing the Ministry of Justice's power to amend the content of National Bank of
Moldova and National Commission for Financial Markets regulations, as evidenced by the
enactment of:
(a) 
Law No. 108 on Approving of Amendments and Completion of Some
Legislative Acts dated June 19, 2014 and published in the Official Gazette
No. 238-246/539 on August 15, 2014; and
-6-
(b) 
Law No. 62 on Amending and Supplementing Certain Acts, dated April 8, 2016
and published in the Official Gazette No. 123-127/248 on May 6, 2016.
5. 
The National Bank of Moldova has withdrawn the licenses from Banca de Econoini S.A.,
Banca Sociala, S.A. and Unibank S.A. and initiated the liquidation of said banks, as
evidenced by:
(a) 
Decision No. 62 of the National Bank of Moldova on Approving of the
Withdrawal of the License for Conducting Financial Activities and Initiation of
the Liquidation Process of JS BEM, dated October 16, 2015 and published in the
Official Gazette No. 291-295/2177 on October 23, 2015;
(b) 
Decision No. 63 of the National Bank of Moldova on Approving the Withdrawal
of the License for Conducting Financial Activities and Initiation of the
Liquidation Process of JS Banca Sociala, dated October 16, 2015 and published
in the Official Gazette No. 291-295/2178 on October 23, 2015; and
(c) 
Decision No. 64 of the National Bank of Moldova on Approving the Withdrawal
of the License for Conducting Financial Activities and Initiation of the
Liquidation Process of JS Unibank, dated October 16, 2015 and published in the
Official Gazette No. 291-295/2179 on October 23, 2015.
6. 
The National Bank of Moldova has issued an order on launching special audits (diagnostic
studies) for Moldova's three largest Banks (Victoriabank S.A., Moldindconbank S.A., and
Moldova Agroindbank S.A.), as evidenced by:
(a) 
Decision No. 156 of the National Bank of Moldova on Establishment of Special
Surveillance at Moldindconbank S.A. adopted on June 11, 2015;
(b) 
Decision No. 157 of the National Bank of Moldova on Establishment of Special
Surveillance at Victoriabank S.A. adopted on June 11, 2015; and
(c) 
Decision No. 158 of the National Bank of Moldova on Establishment of Special
Surveillance at Moldova Agroindbank S.A. adopted on June 11, 2015.
7. 
The Borrower has enacted amendments to the Law on Pledge (Law No. 449-XV dated
July 30, 2001 and published in the Official Gazette No. 120/863 on October 2, 2001 and
republished in the Official Gazette No. 345-351/655 on November 21, 2014) to facilitate
the use of movable assets as collateral, as evidenced by the enactment of Law No. 173 on
approving of Amendments and Completion of Some Legislative Acts dated July 25, 2014
and published in the Official Gazette No. 231-237/531 on August 8, 2014.
8. 
The Borrower has approved a policy requiring the State Treasury within the Ministry of
Finance, and fully or majority state-owned companies, to conduct price-based public
tenders for banking services which incorporate at least the regulatory minimum required
capital adequacy and liquidity ratios, as evidenced by:
(a) 
Government Decision No. 387 on Approving the Regulation on the
Procurement of Financial Services by the State and Municipal Enterprises
and Trading Companies with Integral or Majority Public Capital, dated
-7-
May 28, 2014 and published in the Official Gazette No. 142-146/431 on
June 3, 2014; and
(b) 
Government Decision No. 428 on Approving the Selection of Banking Services
of Financial Institutions for Public Institutions and Authorities, dated
June 9, 2014 and published in the Official Gazette No. 153-159/468 on
June 13, 2014.
Pillar C: 
Improve the public investment management framework, make investment
subsidies in agriculture more efficient and equitable and improve the
coverage well-targeted social assistance programs
9. 
The Borrower has strengthened the regulatory framework for public investment
management by: (i) enacting provisions of the Law on Public Finance and Fiscal Budgetary
Responsibility (defined in paragraph (a) below) on the principles of the public investment
management system and public investment financing; (ii) amending the Regulation on
Public Capital Investment (Government Decision No. 1029 on Approving the Principles of
Public Capital Investment dated December 19, 2013 and published in the Official Gazette
No. 311/1157 on December 27, 2013) to expand its coverage; and (iii) adopting guidelines
for the project preparation cycle, as evidenced by:
(a) 
Law No.181 
on Approving of Public Finance and Fiscal Budgetary
Responsibility dated July 25, 2014 and published in Official Gazette
No. 223-230/519 on August 8, 2014;
(b) 
Government Decision No.1181 on Approving the Amendments to Appendix 3
to the Government Decision No.1029 dated December 19, 2013, adopted on
October 26, 2016 and published in Official Gazette No. 369-378 /1276 on
October 28, 2016; and
(c) 
Order No. 185 from Ministry of Finance on Approving the Instructions on the
Management of Capital Investment Projects dated November 3, 2015 and
published in Official Gazette No. 361-369/2695 on December 31, 2015.
10. 
The Borrower has adopted the regulation on the agricultural support fund for agricultural
producers for 2016, which: (i) narrows the scope of the largest investment subsidy
program; and (ii) caps, or reduces the caps of, subsidy sizes allowed for each beneficiary,
as evidenced by Government Decision No. 910 dated July 25, 2016 and published in the
Official Gazette No. 247-255/996 on August 5, 2016.
11. 
The Borrower has adjusted the parameters of the Ajutor Social benefit program by
increasing the eligibility threshold to Moldovan Lei 900 Guaranteed Minimum Income
(GMI) in the amendments to the 2015 Budget Law (Law No. 72 on State Budget for 2015
dated April 12, 2015 and published in the Official Gazette No. 102-104/172 on
April 28, 2015), as evidenced by Law No. 200 on Amendments to the State Budget for
2015 dated November 20, 2015 and published in the Official Gazette No. 330-331/629 on
December 8, 2015.
-8-
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by
notice to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from
which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan Allocated
(expressed in USD)
Single Withdrawal Tranche 
27,200,000
TOTAL AMOUNT 
27,200,000
C. 
Payment of Front-end Fee. No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account until
the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee.
D. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions. No withdrawal shall be made of the Single
Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by
the Borrower; and (b) with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework.
E. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and
2. 
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower's budget
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
F. 
Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not
be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank detennines at any time that an
amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the amount
of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be
cancelled.
G. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is September 30, 2017.
-9-
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying:
(a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment
Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary,
to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each May 15 and November 15
2%
Beginning May 15, 2022
through November 15, 2046
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as
of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal
by a fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date
("Original Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all
remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or
after such date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding
on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall
be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
- 10 -
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such
sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating
to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so detenrines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
- 11 -
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Ajutor Social" means the Borrower's social benefit program which aims to ensure a
minimum monthly income guaranteed to disadvantaged families by granting welfare
payments detennined in accordance with the average monthly income of each family and
the need for social assistance, as set forth in Law No. 133 dated June 13, 2008 and
published in the Official Gazette No. 179/625 on September 30, 2008.
2. 
"Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or international
financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association has financed
or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association has financed or agreed
to finance under another loan, credit, or grant;
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item
112 
Alcoholic beverages
121 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco
refuse
122 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525 
Radioactive and associated materials
667 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the
Borrower is a party;
- 12 -
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or
coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other
recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower (or other such recipient)
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address such
practices when they occur.
3. 
"Financing Agreement" means the agreement between the Borrower and the Association
in support of the Program, of the same date as this Agreement, as such agreement may be
amended from time to time. "Financing Agreement" includes all appendices, schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Financing Agreement.
4. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
5. 
"Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the
letter dated November 8, 2016 from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in
support of the Program during its execution, as well as the actions listed in Section L.A of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
6. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category
entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1 .
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for Withdrawal)
is deleted in its entirety.
3. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in their
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
4. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Conunitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
- 13 -
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually
in arrears on each Payment Date."
5. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally) and 5.09 (Financial Management; Financial
Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the subsequent Sections in Article V
are renumbered accordingly.
6. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above and
relating to Use of Goods. Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
7. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above) is
modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until
two years after the Closing Date. 
The Borrower shall enable the Bank's
representatives to examine such records."
8. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above) is
modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their respective
obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Loan."
9. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all references to Section numbers and paragraphs are
modified, as necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above.
10. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition
of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the remaining paragraphs accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
11. 
Renumbered paragraph 37 (originally paragraph 36) of the Appendix ("Eligible
Expenditure") is modified to read as follows:
"37. 
"Eligible Expenditure" means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the
Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan Agreement."
- 14 -
12. 
Renumbered paragraph 44 (originally paragraph 43) of the Appendix ("Financial
Statements") is deleted in its entirety.
13. 
In paragraph 48 of the Appendix, the definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing
the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
14. 
In paragraph 67 of the Appendix, the definition of the tern "Loan Payment" is modified to
read as follows:
"67. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower."
15. 
In paragraph 72 of the Appendix, the definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting
the word "is" and inserting the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word
"interest".
16. 
The defined term "Project" in paragraph 75 of the Appendix is modified to read "Program"
and its definition is modified to read as follows (and all references to "Project" throughout
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to "Program"):
"75. 
"Program" means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of
which the Loan is made."
