OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8587-CN
Loan Agreement
(Zhuzhou Brownfield Remediation Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC.OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPM[ENT
Dated 
( 
,2016
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8587-CN
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
t4. 
, 2016, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
CHINA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE I -LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred and fifty million Dollars
($150,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement
("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement
("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be -determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02
(e) of the General Conditions.
-2-
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or
vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference
Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for whiph the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.09. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit (as
said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of this Section), the
Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of one half of one percent
(0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-
paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The
Exposure Surcharge (if any) shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each
Payment Date.
(b) 
For Purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set forth
below:
-3-
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during which
the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit, the product of:
(A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the ratio of all (or, if the
Bank so determines, a portion) of the Loan to the aggregate amount of all
(or the equivalent portions) of the loans made by the Bank to the
Borrower and to other borrowers guaranteed by the Borrower that are
also subject to an exposure surcharge, as said excess and ratio are
reasonably determined from time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the Bank's
financial exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded, would subject the
Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined from time to time by the
Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total financial
exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project Implementing Entity in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the Project
Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall .otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure.that the
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that any party to
the Subsidiary Agreement shall have failed to perform any of its respective obligations
thereunder.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that the
Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of Shifeng District and ZREIDC.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, -namely that the Subsidiary
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by Shifeng District and ZREIDC, and is
legally binding upon Shifeng District and ZREIDC in accordance with its terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
-4- -
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Xicheng District
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Facsimile:
(86-10) 6855-2077
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at Beijing, People's Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By
Authorized Representative
Name:
Title: 
64-tS'-~-- 
-
INTERNATIONAL BAYFOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
BY
Au orized Representative
Name:
Title:- 
6 i~k 
/2
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to reduce public exposure to contaminated land in the
Project Area using risk-based remediation approaches.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A. 
Remediation of Contaminated Plots
Carrying out cleanup and remediation activities on contaminated plots and dispersed
open soil plots in residential areas including, inter alia: (a) site preparation; (b) materials
transport (including road construction to enable transport); (c) treatment of soil and
sediment, remediation of contaminated soil plots, ponds and channels; (d) cleanup of
industrial waste piles; and (e) soil exchange programs for open soil plots in residential
areas.
Part B. 
Associated Treatment and Disposal Works
Construction and/or upgrading of associated remediation and disposal facilities required
to treat contaminated materials including, inter alia: (a) a dewatering site; (b) a
stabilization/solidification facility; (c) wastewater treatment facilities; and (d) the
development of an industrial solid waste landfill in the Project Area.
Part C. 
Capacity Building and Knowledge Management
Provision of support to Zhuzhou Municipality and Shifeng District for the carrying out of
Project-related studies and capacity building activities, public engagement campaigns,
remediation management and redevelopment strategic planning, environmental quality
and industrial pollution compliance, including the establishment of an environmental
information and demonstration center.
Part D. 
Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
Provision of support to the PMO and ZREIDC to enhance their management capacity
through training, study tours and the provision of consulting services, including: (a)
project management capacity building; (b) project management; and (c) external
environmental and social monitoring.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Financing Arrangements
1I 
For the purposes of carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make available the
proceeds of the Loan to the Project Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including the following principal terms:
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars or any other Currency as
the Loan may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion
(such principal amount determined on the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal
from the Loan Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn.
(b) 
The principal amount so made available (including an amount equal to the fee
paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement and any premium for Interest
Rate Caps or Interest Rate Collars paid pursuant to Section 2.08(c) of this
Agreement and Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions) shall be recovered
over a period of twenty six (26) years, inclusive of a grace period of six (6) years.
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest applicable from time to
time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.05 of this Agreement.
(d) 
A Commitment Charge shall be charged equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to: (a) manage, operate,
monitor, transfer and reconcile the proceeds of the Loan made available to it pursuant to
paragraph 1 above in accordance with arrangements and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank, (b) take all required actions, including provision of timely consents and approvals
as may be necessary, to facilitate the utilization of said Loan proceeds and the
implementation of the Project and, to enable the Project Implementing Entity to comply
with its undertakings under the Project Agreement; and (c) maintain all relevant records
and documents related to the Loan and the Project and provide promptly such documents
and records, including all other information, as may be requested by the Borrower or the
Bank from time to time.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
-8-
C. 
Safeguards
The Borrower shall take, and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to take, all.
measures necessary to comply with, or all measures necessary to enable the Project
Implementing Entity to comply with, the provisions of Section I.C of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement.
Section H1. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project
Reports ii accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and
on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Project Operations Manual. Each Project
Report shall, cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than sixty (60) days after the end of the period covered by such report.
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the execution of
the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than three months after the Closing Date.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall cause
the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the Bank, as part of the Project
Report, not later than sixty (60) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim
unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial
Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six
(6) months after the end of such period. The Borrower shall make, or cause the Project
Implementing Entity to make, the audited Financial Statements publicly available in a
timely fashion and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
Section HI. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
-9-
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Piocurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. 
All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to
the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the Procurement Guidelines,
or Sections II, III, TV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services
L 
International Competitive Bidding. 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in
the Procurement Plan: 
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional
provisions set forth in the box below; (b) Direct Contracting; and (c) Shopping.
The procedures applicable to the procurement of goods, works, and non-consulting
services under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding
("NCB") shall be the open tendering procedures set forth in the Borrower's Law on
Tendering and Bidding promulgated by its Order No. 21 dated August 30, 1999;
provided, however, that such procedures shall be subject to the provisions of Section I,
Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of Section 111, and Appendix I of the Procurement Guidelines,
and the additional provisions in the following. In the event of a conflict between the
Borrower's procedures and these NCB Procedure Modifications, the latter shall
govern.
(i) 
Eligibility to participate in a procurement process and to be awarded a Bank-
financed contract shall be as defined under Section I of the Procurement
Guidelines; accordingly, no bidder or potential bidder shall be declared
ineligible for such contract for reasons other than those provided in Section I
of the Procurement Guidelines. No restriction based on nationality of bidders
and/or origin of goods shall apply, and foreign bidders shall be allowed to
participate in NCB without application of restrictive conditions.
(ii) 
All invitations to prequalify or bid shall be advertised in a national newspaper
of wide circulation in the Borrower's country, or on a widely used website /
-10-
electronic portal with free national and international access acceptable to the
Bank except for goods or non-consulting services contracts that are estimated
to cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, or works contracts that are
estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 each, which may be advertised in a
provincial daily newspaper. Such advertisement shall be made in sufficient
time for prospective bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding documents
and prepare and submit their responses. In any event, a minimum of thirty
(30) days shall be given to bidders between the date of such advertisement (or
the date of availability of bidding documents, whichever is later) and the
deadline for the submission of bids, and the advertisement and bidding
documents shall specify the deadline for the submission of bids. In the case of
such advertisement on a website / electronic portal, the notice shall remain
readily accessible nationally and internationally until at least the deadline for
the submission of bids. Potential bidders shall be allowed to inspect and
purchase bidding documents at any time prior to the deadline for the
submission of bids.
(iii) 
Standard Bidding Documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
(iv) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of evaluating the
qualification of each bidder shall be specified in detail in the bidding
documents.
(v) 
Prequalification procedures and documents acceptable to the Bank shall be
used for large, complex and/or specialized works. 
Verification of the
information upon which a bidder was prequalified, including current
commitments, shall be carried out at the time of contract award, along with the
bidder's capability with respect to personnel and equipment. All bidders that
meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-qualification documents shall
be allowed to bid, and there shall be no limit on the number of pre-qualified
bidders. Where pre-qualification is not used, the qualification of the bidder
who is recommended for award of contract shall be assessed by post-
qualification, applying the qualification criteria stated in the bidding
documents.
(vi) 
Registration shall not be used to assess bidders' qualifications. A bidder shall
not be required to register as a condition for inspecting or purchasing bidding
documents, submitting its bid or receiving contract award. 
A bidder
determined to be the lowest evaluated responsive bidder, shall be given
reasonable opportunity of registering (if required) before contract signing
without any let or hindrance. Bidding shall not be restricted to any particular
class of contractors, and non-classified contractors shall also be eligible to bid.
(vii) 
No margins of preference of any sort shall be given to bidders, such as on the
basis of their location, place of incorporation, or affinity with the geographical
area in which the Project activities will take place.
-11-
(viii) 
All bidders who are awarded contracts for works and single-responsibility
contracts shall be required to provide performance security in an amount
sufficient to protect the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity / Entities,
as the case may be, in case of breach of contract by the contractor, and the
bidding documents shall specify the required form and amount of such security
and any other potential damages for such breach.
(ix) 
Bidders shall be allowed to submit bids by mail or in person.
(x) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an opportunity
to be present (either in person or through their representatives) at the time of
bid opening, but bidders shall not be required to be present at the bid opening.
(xi) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding documents and
quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the form of pass/fail
requirements.
(xii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price exceeds any cost
estimate or falls outside any margin or bracket of prices or average bids
established by the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity / Entities, as
,the case may be. Rejection of all bids or re-bidding shall not be allowed solely
because the number of bids is less than three (3), and rejection of all bids or
rebidding shall not take place without the Bank's prior written agreement.
(xiii) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder, that
is, the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of capability and resources
and whose bid has been determined: (A) to be substantially responsive to the
bidding documents; and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The winning
bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award, to undertake
responsibilities for work or to assume other obligations not stipulated in the
bidding documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally submitted. No
negotiations shall be permitted except with the Bank's no-objection.
(xiv) 
In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines,. each bidding document and
contract shall include provisions stating the Bank's policy to sanction firms or
individuals found to have engaged in fraud and corruption as set forth in the
Procurement Guidelines.
(xv) 
In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding document and
contract shall include provisions stating the Bank's policy with respect to
inspection and audit of accounts, records and other documents relating to the
submission of bids and contract performance.
(xvi) 
Government-owned enterprises in the Borrower's country may be permitted to
bid or submit a proposal of goods, works, or non-consulting services if they
-12-
can establish that they: (A) are legally and financially autonomous; (B) operate
under commercial law; and (C) are not a dependent agency of the agency
conducting the procurement.
(xvii) 
Matters such as subcontracting, joint venture relationships and assignment of
contract shall be handled in accordance with the bidding documents.
(xviii) The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be published in the
national or provincial press (as provided under paragraph (ii) above) or official
gazette or a free and open-access website and shall identify: (A) the name of
each bidder.who submitted a bid; (B) bid prices as read out at bid opening; (C)
the name of the bidder, and the evaluated price, of each bid that was evaluated;
(D) the names of bidders whose bids were either rejected as non-responsive or
not meeting qualification criteria, or not evaluated, with the reasons therefor;
and (E) the name of the winning bidder and the final total contract price, as
well as the duration and summary scope of the contract. Such publication shall
be within two (2) weeks of receiving the Bank's no-objection to the award
recommendation for contracts subject to the Bank's prior review, and within
two (2) weeks of the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity's award
decision for contracts subject to the Bank's post review. 
The bidding
documents shall disclose the newspaper in which and / or the electronic means
by which the information on contract award will be published.
(xix) 
The Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity / Entities, as the case may
be, shall have in place an effective and independent protest mechanism for
bidders to protest. The bidding documents shall provide the professional title
and address of the official to whom such protests should be sent.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality
and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following methods,
other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of
consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in Procurement Plan: (a)
Quality-based Selection; (b) -Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications; (c)
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the
Selection of Individual Consultants; (d) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants; and (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms.
-13-
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article U of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The. following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
Expenditures in each Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be Financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non-
consulting services, consultant 
149,625,000
services, Training and 
100%
Workshops under the Project
Amount payable pursuant to
(2) Front-end Fee 
375,000 
Section 
2.03 
of 
this
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions
(3) Interest Rate Cap or. 
Amount . due 
pursuant 
to
Interest Rate Collar premium 
0 
Section 
2.08(c) 
of 
this
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
150,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an
-14-
aggregate amount not to exceed $30,000,000 may be made for payments made prior to
this date but on or after October 16, 2015, for Eligible Expenditures.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2021.
-15-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each June 15 and December 15
Beginning June 15, 2022 
2.50%
through December 15, 2041 
1
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on. each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
-16-
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-17-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Annual Work Plan" means each of the rolling plans for the Project to be prepared or
updated by the Project Management Office, submitted by the Project Implementing
Entity, and approved by the Bank, on an annual basis as provided for in Section I.A.5 of
the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
3. 
"Bank's Safeguards Policies" means the operational policies and procedures for financing
of development projects by the Bank at the date of this Agreement and relating to
Environmental Assessment, Natural Habitats, Pest Management, Indigenous Peoples
(Ethnic Minorities), Physical Cultural Resources, Involuntary Resettlement, Forests,
Safety of Dams, Projects on International Waterways, and Projects in Disputed Areas, as
published under www.WorldBank.ora/opmanual.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
5. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers"
dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
6. 
"Displaced Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of the Project, have
experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by: (a) the
-
involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter, (ii) loss of assets
or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not
such persons must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to
legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the
livelihood of such persons; and a "Displaced Person" means any of such Displaced
Persons.
7. 
"Environmental 
and Social Management 
Framework" 
or "ESMF" means the
environmental and social management framework for the Project, prepared by the Project
Implementing Entity, through Zhuzhou Municipality, acceptable to the Bank, dated
October 15, 2015, which sets out the policies and procedures for the assessment of
environmental and social impacts of, and for the preparation of additional EMPs as may
be required for, Project activities, as said framework may be revised from time to time
with the prior written agreement of the Bank-, and such term includes all schedules and
annexes supplemental to said framework.
-18-
8. 
"Environmental Management Plan" or "EMP" means the environmental management
plan for the Project prepared by the Project Implementing Entity, through Zhuzhou
Municipality, acceptable to the Bank, dated October 15, 2015, which sets out the
environmental and social protection measures, including measures for the protection of
natural habitats and physical cultural resources, in respect of the Project, as well as
administrative, monitoring, supervision and training arrangements to ensure the
implementation of said plan, as said plan may be revised from time to time with the prior
written agreement of the Bank; and such term includes all schedules and annexes
supplemental to said plan.
.9. 
"General 
Conditions" 
means the "International 
Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
10. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
11. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
January 13, 2016 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
12. 
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and the Project
Implementing Entity of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to
time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement.
13. 
"Project Area" means an 8.48km2 portion of the core area of Zhuzhou's Qingshuitang
industrial zone, located in Shifeng District, Zhuzhou Municipality within Hunan
Province, with the following outer boundaries which are not included in the Project Area
to the east with Xiangtian Road; to the north with the planned Fahua Road-planned
Huanbao Road-existing Qingshui Road-existing Qingxia Road-existing Tongxia Road-
existing exterior wall of Zhuzhou Chemical Plant and Zhuzhou Smelter Group-planned
Huaping Road-planned Zhicheng Road-planned Fahua Road; and to the west with the
JingGuang Railway Line.
14. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means the Borrower's Province of Hunan, or any
successor thereto.
15. 
"Project Leading Group" means the leading group established by Zhuzhou Municipality
on May 4, 2014, to provide overall leadership, policy guidance and institutional
coordination in Project preparation and implementation, and referred to in Section
I.A.1(a) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and any successor thereto.
-19-
16. 
"Project Management Office" or "PMO" means the municipal-level Project management
office established by Zhuzhou Municipality, and referred to in Section I.A. 1(b) of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement, and any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
17. 
"Project Operations Manual" means the manual that includes the Procurement Plan, the
EMP, the ESMF, the RAP, the RPF, the Project's results framework and performance
indicators, technical models, and other operational arrangements for the Project,
including financial management, disbursement, accounting and procurement procedures,
dated January 13, 2016, prepared and adopted by the Project Implementing Entity,
through Zhuzhou Municipality, and referred to in Section I.A.4 of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement, as the same may be revised from time to time with the prior written
agreement of the Bank.
18. 
"Qinshuitang" means the industrial zone of such name located in Shifeng District,
Zhuzhou Municipality.
19. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" or "RAP" means the resettlement action plan for the Project
prepared by the Project Implementing Entity, through Zhuzhou Municipality, acceptable
to the Bank, dated October 15, 2015, setting forth, inter alia: (i) the principles and
procedures governing the acquisition of land required for the Project and related
facilities; (ii) actions and measures for the payment of compensation to Displaced
Persons and for their resettlement and rehabilitation; (iii) the criteria and procedures for
developing and implementing actions and measures, satisfactory to the Bank, for
mitigating the adverse social impacts resulting from the implementation of activities in
locations that are not directly identified in the RAP; (iv) grievance redress mechanisms;
and (v) reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan, as
the same may be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank;
and such term includes all attachments and annexes supplemental to said plan.
20. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the resettlement policy framework for
the Project, prepared by the Project Implementing Entity, through Zhuzhou Municipality,
acceptable to the Bank, dated October 15, 2015, which sets out the policies and
procedures for the acquisition of land and other assets, compensation, resettlement and
rehabilitation of Displaced Persons, and for the preparation of additional RAPs as may be
required for Project activities, as said framework may be revised from time to time with
the prior written agreement of the Bank; and such term includes all schedules and
annexes supplemental to said framework.
21. 
"Safeguards Instruments" means, collectively, the Environmental Management Plan
(including any additional EMPs), the Environmental 
and Social Management
Framework, the Resettlement Action Plan (including any additional RAPs), and the
Resettlement Policy Framework, as well as any attachments, schedules and annexes
supplemental to said instruments.
22. 
"Shifeng District" means the district of such name under the jurisdiction of Zhuzhou
Municipality, or any successor thereto.
-20-
23. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between Shifeng District
and ZREIDC pursuant to Section I.A.2 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
supplements to said agreement.
24. 
"Training and Workshops" means the costs of training activities under the Project, based
on the Annual Work Plans approved in advance by the Bank, and attributable to
seminars, workshops, and domestic and overseas training, along with travel and
subsistence allowances for training participants, services of trainers, rental of training
facilities, preparation and reproduction of training materials, and other activities directly
related to course preparation and implementation.
25. 
"ZREIDC" means Zhuzhou Recycling Economic Investment & Development Group
Company, Ltd., which will serve as the Project implementation unit, a state-owned
enterprise established and operating pursuant to its Business License No. (Qi)
430200000028129 
dated 
September 
3, 
2014, 
issued by Zhuzhou 
Municipal
Administration of Industry and Commerce, or any successor thereto acceptable to the
Bank.
26. 
"Zhuzhou Municipality" or "Zhuzhou" means the municipality of such name in the
Borrower's Province of Hunan, or any successor thereto.
Section IL. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
.
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn
Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge").
The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-
annually in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above.
-21-
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition
of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section
3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition
of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any surcharge, any
prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a
Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding
Amount payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and
Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
