OFFICIAL 
DOCUMENTS 
LOAN NUMBER 8629-GA 
Loan Agreement 
Additional Financing for the Fourth Phase of the Central African Backbone Program - Gabon 
Project and Amendment to the Original Loan Agreement 
between 
GABONESE REPUBLIC 
and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
'2016 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
•·:,; 
.. 
" 
.. ""' 
LOAN NUMBER 8629-GA 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated ~~ 
-z.11 2.01t , 2016, 
between GABONESE 
REPUBLIC ("Borrower") and INT 
ATIONA 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). 
(A) 
By extending financial assistance: (i) in 2007 to the Republic of 
Cameroon, the Central African Republic and the Republic of Chad; and (ii) in 2011 to the 
Republica Democratica de Sao Tome e Principe and the Republic of Congo, the 
International Development Association has provided support to precedent activities under 
the Central African Backbone Program ("Program") which aims to support populations, 
businesses and governments across the Central African region to have access to quality and 
affordable information and communication technology services on open, transparent and non-
discriminatory terms; and 
(B) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
Original Project under (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) the fourth phase of 
the Program, has requested the Bank to provide additional financing for activities related 
to the Original Project. 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement to the Borrower upon the terms 
and conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute 
an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix 
to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II -
LOAN 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of twenty million two hundred thousand 
Euros, (EUR 20,200,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 
of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 
1 to this Agreement ("Project"). 
., 
-2-
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section 
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of 
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance. 
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, 
that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3 .02( e) of the General 
Conditions. 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 1 and September 1 in each year. 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or 
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all 
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the 
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and 
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable 
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of 
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by 
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in 
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines. 
-3-
( c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts 
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) 
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for 
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.09. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.08 of this 
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis 
applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each 
Interest Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for 
the full maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of Article IV 
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, 
the Borrower shall: (i) carry out Parts I and 3 of the Project through the CCSPFOG; 
and (ii) pursuant to the Backbone Agreement, cause Part 2 of the Project to be 
carried out by the SPY, all in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions. 
3.02 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
(a) 
The SPY, as the case may be, shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under, respectively, the Backbone Agreement. 
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this Agreement, 
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the SPY will be able to perform any of its obligations under the 
Backbone Agreement. 
( c) 
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the SPY or for the 
suspension of its operations. 
( d) 
The CCSPFOG Legislation or the SPY Legislation, as the case may be, 
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as 
to affect materially and adversely the ability of the CCSPFOG or the SPY, 
,. 
,, 
., 
-4-
as the case may be, to perform any of its obligations under, respectively, 
this Agreement or the Backbone Agreement. 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consist of the following: 
(a) 
Any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
occurs and is continuing for a period of sixty ( 60) days after notice of the 
event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
(b) 
Any event specified in paragraphs ( c) or ( d) of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement occurs. 
ARTICLE V-EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5. 01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the 
date of this Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the minister in charge of economy. 
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is: 
Ministry of Sustainable Development, Economy, 
Investment Promotion, and Prospective 
BP 747 
Libreville 
Gabonese Republic 
Telex: 5409 GO 
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is: 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Telex: 
248423(MCI) or 
64145(MCI) 
Facsimile: 
1-202-477-6391 
written. 
-5-
AGREED at Libreville, Gabonese Republic, as of the day and year first above 
By 
eed-> J mt rlY0-<6(,{ u \-t 
Title: 
~u ~ Y€.loqfPAA£2 14 ~ du\ CJ~/ 
dQ_ I/ &o~ouY118 I~ lo 
c~ot1ti10.\.10V\ ~ 
J Vt v(LJ.10 >&:tn£l-t ~ cl- ck \er 
'P~r@)ch~· 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
By 
Title: 
'0,;~J~k1k11t~ 
fc"~&int de 
\ Q 
~ 
VlC1
J{S 0011 ~·lule_. 
-6-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description 
The objectives of the Project are to contribute to increase geographical reach and 
usage of regional broadband network services and to reduce their prices in the territory of 
the Borrower. 
The Project constitutes an additional financing to the fourth phase of the Program, 
and consists of the following parts: 
Part 1: Enabling Environment 
Carrying out a comprehensive program of technical assistance and the provision 
of goods, including: 
1. 
Developing required bidding documents and carrying out monitoring of works 
under Part 2.1 of the Project. 
2. 
Preparing recommendation and action plans for the development of datacenter 
capabilities in the Carrier Hotel set-up under Part 2.3 of the Original Project. 
3. 
Preparing necessary documentation to ensure proper coordination between the 
Borrower, the Republic of Cameroon and the Republic of Equatorial Guinea for 
cross border fiber optic interconnection provided for under Part 2. I of the Project. 
4. 
Providing recommendations and preparing an action plan to increase the IXP 
activity including through domain names under ".ga'', to assist the Borrower in 
fulfilling its role as regional IXP. 
5. 
Assessing the PPP implemented under Part I. I of the Original Project. 
6. 
Strengthening the Borrower's key stakeholders' capacity to: (i) provide policy and 
regulatory guidance, including regulatory tools, cost models, monitoring and 
evaluation capacity, and encompassing a range of activities, focused studies and 
training designed to assist in improving the overall policy, competitive and 
regulatory environment for the Borrower's ICT sector; and (ii) to implement the 
Borrower's ICT legal and regulatory framework. 
7. 
Assisting ARCEP in: (i) developing required bidding documents for monitoring of 
broadband services quality provided in the Borrower's territory; and (ii) updating 
the annual cost model to regulate wholesale prices. 
8. 
Undertaking a study to assess viable options for a pilot project aimed at bringing 
local fiber optic infrastructure in Port-Gentil to support the national broadband plan 
under Part I .4 of the Original Project. 
-7-
9. 
Developing regulations and procedures aimed at fostering sectoral synergies in the 
deployment of broadband infrastructure, such as consultations for roads, railways, 
and electricity lines construction. 
Part 2: Connectivity 
1. 
Construction of a terrestrial fiber optic link between Boom~ - Koumameyong -
Lalara - Mitzie - OYEM - Bitam - Eboro I Border with Cameroon to KyeOssi I 
Border with Equatorial Guinea and of a terrestrial fiber optic link between Oyan -
Bifoun - Lambarene and the extension of existing terrestrial fiber optic link 
2. 
Purchasing Ducts and Chambers to be maintained as a reserve for the Borrower. 
Part 3: Project Management 
Strengthening of the Borrower's capacity to implement the Project, encompassing 
the technical assistance required for: (i) the upgrading and operation of the 
CCSPFOG and the CN-TIPPEE to ensure suitable staffing, dedicated staff for the 
Project, the provision of office space and equipment and the financing of 
Operational Costs required for the purpose; (ii) the carrying out of the 
environmental and social studies required by the ESMF, the RAP and the IPPF and 
monitoring and capacity building activities under the Project; and (iii) the 
fulfillment of the 
Borrower's obligations 
under this 
Agreement 
for 
implementation, auditing, monitoring and evaluation, data collection and 
communication. 
,, 
-8-
SCHEDULE2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
The CCSPFOG 
(a) 
The Borrower shall lead the overall implementation of the Project through 
the CCSPFOG. To that end, the Borrower shall maintain throughout 
Project implementation the CCSPFOG, at all times under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank and with staff and resources adequate to 
enable it to carry out its responsibilities under the Project and shall through 
the CCSPFOG: (i) provide overall technical and operative guidance, 
direction and coordination during Project implementation; and (ii) carry 
out the fiduciary and governance oversight of the Project and the overall 
responsibility for the compliance of safeguard activities pursuant to the 
Borrower's and the Bank's policies. The CCSPFOG structure shall consist 
of a Steering Committee and a Project Coordination Team. 
(b) 
The Steering Committee shall be comprised at all times of the Minister 
responsible for economy, the Minister responsible for digital economy, the 
Director General of ANINF, and the President of ARCEP, and may 
include other representatives as the Borrower and the Bank may agree 
from time to time. The Steering Committee shall meet at least once every 
quarter (or exceptionally if so required). The permanent secretary of the 
CN-TIPPEE can be invited as an observer to the Steering Committee's 
meetings. 
(c) 
The Project Coordination Team shall include at all times the 
representatives of the institutions in the Steering Committee and from the 
ministry responsible for environment. Furthermore, it shall designate one 
of its members as the Program focal point to ensure smooth coordination 
with the Project Implementation Unit and the Bank, the Program focal 
point being appointed also as the secretary of the Steering Committee. 
2. 
The CN-TIPPEE 
(a) 
The CN-TIPPEE, acting as the PIU and reporting to the CCSPFOG for 
overall guidance, direction and coordination as well as for fiduciary and 
governance oversight, shall be vested responsibility for Project fiduciary 
management, including procurement, financial management, monitoring 
and evaluation, communications and environmental support. To this end, 
the Borrower, through the ministry in charge of economy shall: 
(i) maintain the CN-TIPPEE throughout Project implementation at all 
times under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and with staff and 
-9-
resources adequate to enable it to carry out its responsibilities under the 
Project. 
(b) 
In order to ensure proper and efficient implementation of the Project, the 
CN-TIPPEE shall: (i) be directed by its permanent secretary; and 
(ii) maintain, at all times during a Project coordination, a financial and 
administration specialist; a procurement specialist; a monitoring, 
evaluation and environmental specialist, and an accountant. The said staff 
shall work closely with the ministry in charge of digital economy and 
AN INF as well as with the Program focal point of the Project Coordination 
Team. 
B. 
Backbone Agreement and SPV Wholesale Contract 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of Part 2 of the Project, the Borrower shall, not later 
than three (3) months after the Effective Date, take all action required: (i) to ensure 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Category (2) are transferred 
to the SPV in an efficient and timely manner; and (ii) to have in place a suitable 
legal framework to ensure the Loan is used for the intended purposes. To that end, 
the Borrower shall amend the Backbone Agreement with the SPY whereby the 
Borrower shall: 
(a) 
transfer the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Category 
(2) to the SPY, on a non-reimbursable basis, for the purposes of carrying 
out Part 2 of the Project; 
(b) 
require the SPY: ( i) to carry out Part 2 of the Project with due diligence 
and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, economic, 
financial, managerial, environmental, social standards and practices 
satisfactory to the Bank, including in accordance with the provisions of 
the ESIA, ESMP, RAP and/or the IPP, as the case may be, the Project 
Implementation Manual, and the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to 
recipients of loan proceeds other than the Borrower; and (ii) to provide, 
promptly as needed, the resources required for the purpose; 
(c) 
obtain rights and specify the SPY's obligations adequate to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and those of the Bank, including: (i) subrogation 
rights against the Operator party to the SPV Wholesale Contract upon the 
failure of the Operator to perform any of its obligations under the SPY 
Wholesale Contract; (ii) the right to suspend or terminate the right of the 
SPY to use the proceeds of the Loan or to obtain a repayment of all or any 
part of the amount of the Loan then withdrawn, upon the SPY's failure to 
perform any of its obligations under the Backbone Agreement; (iii) the 
SPY's obligation to maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable 
it to monitor and evaluate in accordance with the Monitoring and 
Evaluation Indicators, the progress of Part 2 of the Project and the 
achievement of its objectives; (iv) the SPY's obligation: (A) to maintain a 
financial management system and prepare financial statements in 
-10-
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to 
the Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations, resources 
and expenditures related to Part 2 of the Project; and (B) at the Borrower's 
or the Bank's request, to have such financial statements audited by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with 
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, and 
promptly furnish the statements as so audited to the Borrower and the 
Bank; (v) the right to enable the Borrower and the Bank to inspect Part 2 
of the Project, its operation and any relevant records and documents; and 
(vi) the SPY's obligation to prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the 
Bank all such information as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing; and 
( d) 
require the SPY to amend the SPY Wholesale Contract, in form 
satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance with the PPP Guidelines, 
including subrogation rights for the SPY against the Operator party to the 
SPY Wholesale Contract upon the failure of the Operator to perform any 
of its obligations under the SPY Wholesale Contract. 
2. 
The Backbone Agreement shall contain provisions whereby the SPY is obligated 
to abide by the relevant provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. The 
Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the Backbone 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Backbone 
Agreement or any of their provisions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any of the 
provisions of the Backbone Agreement is inconsistent with the provisions of this 
Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail and govern. 
C. 
Anti-Corruption 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
D. 
Safeguards 
Environmental and Social Impact Assessment, Environmental and Social 
Management Plan, Resettlement Action Plan and Indigenous Peoples Plan 
The Borrower shall cause the SPY to take all action necessary on its behalf: 
( 1) 
to comply with the ESMF and to carry out the ESIA and the ESMP, as the 
case may be, with due diligence and efficiency; (i) to ensure that the 
relevant mitigation and monitoring provisions of the ESIA and the ESMP, 
as the case may be, are appropriately included in the works, goods and 
services contracts to be concluded under Part 2 of the Project and that they 
are implemented in the carrying out of said Part 2 of the Project; and 
(ii) to maintain the Borrower and the Bank suitably informed of the 
-11-
progress in the implementation of the ESIA and the ESMP, as the case 
may be, through the information to be prepared and furnished to the 
Borrower pursuant to the provisions of paragraph ( c )(vi) of Section l.D. l 
of this Schedule; and 
(2) 
to comply with the RPF and the IPPF and to carry out the RAP and the 
IPP, as the case may be, with due diligence and efficiency and at all times 
provide the funds necessary therefor; (i) to adequately monitor and 
evaluate the carrying out of the activities provided in the RAP and in the 
IPP, as the case may be, in the carrying out of Part 2 of the Project; and 
(ii) to maintain the Borrower and the Bank suitably informed of the 
progress in the implementation of the RAP and the IPP, as the case may 
be, through the information to be prepared and furnished to the Borrower 
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (c)(vi) of Section I.D. l of this 
Schedule. 
E. 
Project Implementation Manual 
The Borrower shall not later than one ( 1) month after the Effective Date, amend 
the Project Implementation Manual to: (i) include the activities financed under the 
Project; (ii) take all action required to carry out the Project in accordance with the 
provisions and requirements set forth or referred to in the Project Implementation 
Manual; (iii) submit recommendations to the Bank for its consideration for changes 
and updates of the Project Implementation Manual as they may become necessary 
or advisable during Project implementation in order to achieve the objectives of 
the Project; and (iv) not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Project 
Implementation Manual or any of its provisions without the Bank's prior 
agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any of the provisions of the Project 
Implementation Manual is inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, the 
provisions of this Agreement shall prevail and govern. 
F. 
Training 
For the purposes of the training to be provided under the Project and to be delivered 
through study tours and workshops, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
furnish to the Bank for its approval, not later than November 30 of each 
year, a training program including an explanation of how such training is 
consistent and conducive to the objectives of the Project and whether it 
offers the best price/quality ratio, as well as the schedule for its 
implementation; 
(b) 
select the trainees in accordance with a transparent process and criteria 
satisfactory to the Bank; and 
( c) 
furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, on the results of each training and the benefits to be 
derived therefrom. 
-12-
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
A. 
Project Reports 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report shall 
cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than one month after the end of the period covered by such report. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1 . 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5 .09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five ( 45) 
days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for 
the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower, 
commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal was made under the 
Preparation Advance for the Project. The audited Financial Statements for each 
such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the 
end of such period. 
4. 
The Borrower shall, not later than one ( 1) months after the Effective Date, upgrade 
the CN-TIPPEE's existing accounting software acceptable to the Bank, for the 
Project. 
Section III. 
Procurement 
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Section. 
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section. 
-13-
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, 
as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting 
Services 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting 
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for 
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive 
Bidding, subject to the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Section 111.B; 
(b) Shopping; ( c) Limited International Bidding; and ( d) Direct Contracting. 
3. 
Each bidding document and contract financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall 
provide that: (i) in accordance with paragraph 1.16( e) of the Procurement 
Guidelines, each bidding document and contract financed out of the proceeds of 
the financing will provide that: (a) the bidders, suppliers, contractors, and their 
subcontractors, agents, personnel, consultants, service providers, or suppliers will 
permit the World Bank as the Supervising Entity, at its request, to inspect all 
accounts, records and other documents relating to the submission of bids and 
contract performance, and will have said accounts and records audited by auditors 
appointed by the Bank/Supervising Entity; and (b) the deliberate and material 
violation of such provision may amount to an obstructive practice as defined in 
paragraph 1.16 (a)(v) of the Procurement Guidelines; (ii) invitations to bid shall 
be advertised in national newspapers with wide circulation; (iii) the bid evaluation, 
qualification of bidders and contract award criteria shall be clearly indicated in the 
bidding documents; (iv) bidders shall be given adequate response time (at least 
four weeks) to submit bids from the date of the invitation to bid or the date of 
availability of bidding documents, whichever is later; (v) eligible bidders, 
including foreign bidders, shall be allowed to participate; (vi) no domestic or 
CEMAC's regional preference shall be given to domestic or regional contractors, 
domestically or regionally manufactured goods; and association with national or 
regional firms shall not be a condition for participation in a bidding process; 
(vii) bids are awarded to the substantially responsive and the lowest evaluated 
bidder proven this bidder is qualified. No scoring system shall be allowed for the 
evaluation of bids, and no blanket limitation to the number of lots which can be 
awarded to a bidder shall apply; and (viii) and the qualification criteria shall only 
concern the bidder's capability and resources to perform the contract taking into 
account objective and measurable factors. 
-14-
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following 
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for 
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the 
Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed 
Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; (d) Selection based on Consultants' 
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Selection of 
Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of 
Individual Consultants. 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
E. 
Transitional Provisions in respect of Procurement 
I. 
Notwithstanding the terms and conditions of the Original Loan Agreement and to 
the extent that the procurement of any goods, works or consultants' services to be 
financed, at least in part, out of the proceeds of the Original Loan was or will be 
initiated on or after July 1, 2016, the Borrower acknowledges and agrees that the 
provisions of this Agreement set forth or referred to in: (a) Section LC (Anti-
Corruption) of this Schedule 2 (including the related provisions under the General 
Conditions) shall apply to the proceeds of the Original Project utilized to finance 
such goods, works or consultants' services, and (b) Section III (Procurement) of 
this Schedule (including the related provisions under the General Conditions) shall 
apply to the procurement of such goods, works or consultants' services. 
2. 
Notwithstanding the 
provisions of Section 
LC 
(Anti-Corruption) 
and 
Section III (Procurement) of this Schedule 2: (i) to the extent that the procurement 
of any goods, works, or consultants' services to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Original Loan was initiated prior to July 1, 2016; and (ii) there are no proceeds 
remaining under the Original Loan to finance such goods, works, or consultants' 
service; then, on an exceptional basis only and subject to the Bank's prior no-
objection, Section LC of this Schedule 2 shall not apply to the proceeds of the Loan 
utilized to finance such goods, works, or consultants' services, and Section III of 
this Schedule shall not apply to the procurement of such goods, works, or 
consultants' services; provided, however, that the provisions of Section E (Anti-
Corruption) and Section III (Procurement) of Schedule 2 to the Original Loan 
Agreement shall apply, respectively, to the proceeds of the Loan utilized to finance 
such goods, works, or consultants' services and to the procurement of such goods, 
works, and consultants' services. 
-15-
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
A. 
General 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the 
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised 
from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant 
to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in 
paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
-16-
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of 
Allocated 
Expenditures to be 
(expressed in EURO) 
financed 
(inclusive of taxes) 
( 1) Goods, non-consulting 
100% 
services, Training, 
5,649,500 
Operational Costs and 
consultants' services 
for the Project (other 
than Part 2) 
(2) Goods and works under 
14,500,000 
100% 
Part 2 of the Project 
(3) Front-end Fee 
50,500 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
( 4) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to 
Interest Rate Collar 
Section 2.08(c) of this 
premium 
Agreement 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
20,200,000 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed EUR 4,040,000 may be made 
for payments made prior to this date but on or after September 1, 2015, for Eligible 
Expenditures under Category ( 1) and (2). 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2018. 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings 
A. 
The Borrower shall, not later than March 19, 2017, ensure that all face value of 
shares representing contributions in cash of the SPV have been paid. 
B. 
The Borrower shall ensure that a new ICT regulatory and legal framework draft, 
satisfactory to the Bank, revising the existing ICT regulatory and legal framework 
has been submitted and approved by the Council of Ministers not later than 
March 31, 20 I 7. 
-17-
SCHEDULE3 
Amortization Schedule 
l. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan 
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal 
Payment Date; and by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, 
such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred 
to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percenta~e) 
On each March l and September 1 
Beginning September 1, 2021 
through September l, 2035 
3.33% 
On March 1, 2036 
3.43% 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
3. 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the 
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn 
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this 
Schedule. 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount 
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the 
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share") 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
•• 
1' 
i 
-18-
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal 
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices 
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions 
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after 
the adoption of such billing system. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate 
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank 
under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank 
so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate 
component of the Screen Rate. 
-19-
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
I. 
"Abbreviated Resettlement Action Plan" or "ARAP" means the Borrower's 
resettlement and rehabilitation plan acceptable to the bank disclosed in Country on 
April 19, 2016, and at the Bank's Infoshop on April 18, 2016, setting forth the 
measures necessary to ensure that a Displaced Person (as hereinafter defined) by 
the infrastructure partially financed through the Consortium Fee is: (i) informed 
about his or her options and rights pertaining to Resettlement; (ii) consulted on, 
offered choices among, and provided with technically and economically feasible 
resettlement alternatives; (iii) provided: (A) prompt and effective compensation at 
full replacement cost for losses of assets attributable directly to the Project; (B) 
assistance (such as moving allowances) during relocation; and (C) with residential 
housing, or housing sites, or, as required, agricultural sites for which a 
combination of productive potential, locational advantages, and other factors is at 
least equivalent to the advantages of the old site; (iv) offered support after 
displacement, for a transition period, based on a reasonable estimate of the time 
likely to be needed to restore his or her livelihood and standards of living; and 
(v) provided with development assistance in addition to the aforementioned 
compensation measures, such as land preparation, credit facilities, training, or job 
opportunities. 
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants'', dated October 15, 2006, and revised in January 2011. 
3. 
"ANINF" means the Borrower's National Agency for Digital Infrastructure and 
Frequencies ("Agence Nationale des Infrastructures Numeriques et des 
Frequences ''), the agency responsible for the installation and management of the 
infrastructure and national resources shared telecommunications, audiovisual and 
informatics, established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 0212 
dated January 27, 2011, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank. 
4. 
"ARCEP" means the Borrower's Posts and Electronic Communications 
Regulatory Agency(" Autorite de Regulation des Communications Electroniques 
et des Paste"), the agency responsible for the good functioning of the 
telecommunications sector, established and operating pursuant to the Order of the 
Borrower's President No. 0000008/PR/2012 dated February 13, 2012, or any 
successor thereto acceptable to the Bank. 
5. 
"Backbone Agreement" means the agreement entered into by the Borrower and the 
SPY on October 31, 2014, and to be amended in accordance with Section LB of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, pursuant to which the Borrower shall make a portion 
of the proceeds of the Loan available to the SPY (as hereinafter defined) for the 
purposes of carrying out Part 2 of the Project. 
.. 
-20-
6. 
"Carrier Hotel" means a secure physical site or building where data 
communications media converge and are interconnected, allowing multiple 
customers to locate network, server, and storage gear with a minimum of cost and 
complexity. 
7. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
8. 
"CCSPFOG" means the Borrower's Fiber Optic Commission ("Commission 
chargee du suivi des projets de fibre optique au Gabon") referred to in 
Section I.A.I of Schedule 2 of this Agreement. 
9. 
"CCSPFOG Legislation" means, collectively, the ministerial resolutions and/or 
decisions of the Borrower that have been adopted and approved for the purposes 
of establishing and making the CCSPFOG operational, and the CCSPFOG's rules 
and charter. 
10. 
"Chambers" mean a prefabricated access room to be laid at regular intervals to 
enable Ducts to be connected with each other. 
11. 
"CEMAC" means the Economic and Monetary Community of Central Africa 
(Communaute Economique et Monetaire de l'Afrique Centrale). 
12. 
"CN-TIPPEE" means the Borrower's National Commission - Labor Intensive 
Small-Scale Public Infrastructure Works ("Commission Nationale -
Travaux 
d 'Jnteret Public pour la Promotion de l 'Entreprenariat et de l 'Emploi "), 
established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Ministerial Decision (Arrete) 
No. 00007/PRIMPPD dated January 4, 2006, and responsible for carrying out 
projects which are in the public interest on behalf of all stakeholders (the 
government, regional and local administrations, non-governmental organizations 
or donors) with a view to implement best practices and sound governance. 
13. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank 
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014). 
14. 
"Displaced Person" means a person who as a result of: (i) the involuntary taking 
of land under the Project is affected in any of the following ways: (A) relocation 
or loss of shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) Joss of income 
sources or means of livelihood, whether or not the affected person must move to 
another location; or (ii) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated 
parks and protected areas suffers adverse impacts on his or her livelihood. 
15. 
"Ducts" mean high density polyethylene (HOPE) conduits which protect fiber 
optic communications networks. 
16. 
"Environmental and Social Impact Assessment" or "ESIA" means a site-specific 
report, prepared by the Borrower in accordance with the parameters laid down in 
-21-
the ESMF (as hereinafter defined) and acceptable to the Bank, disclosed in Country 
on April 19, 2016. and at the Bank's Infoshop on April 18, 2016, identifying and 
assessing the potential environmental and social impacts of the activities to be 
undertaken for the activities under Part 2 of the Project, evaluating alternatives, 
and designing appropriate mitigation, management, and monitoring measures, and 
including the actions needed to implement these measures. 
17. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the 
environmental and social safeguard framework adopted by the Borrower on 
January 31, 2012, disclosed in country on January 31, 2012 and at the Bank's 
Infos hop on January 31, 2012, setting forth the procedures to be used for the 
preparation and approval of a site-specific Environmental and Social Impact 
Assessment and/or Environmental and Social Management Plan (as hereinafter 
defined) for any site where there exists environmental and/or social issues of a type 
and scale sufficient to trigger the Bank's safeguard policies. 
18. 
"Environmental and Social Management Plan" or "ESMP" means a site-specific 
environmental and social management plan prepared by the Borrower in 
accordance with the parameters laid down in the ESMF (as hereinafter defined) 
and acceptable to the Bank, disclosed in country on April 19, 2016, and at the 
Bank's Infos hop on April 18, 2016, setting forth a set of mitigation, monitoring, 
and institutional measures to be taken during the implementation and operation of 
the activities under Parts 2 of the Project to eliminate adverse environmental and 
social impacts, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels, and including the 
actions needed to implement these measures. 
19. 
"Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12) month period corresponding to any of the 
Borrower's fiscal years, which period commences on January 1 and ends on 
December 31 in each calendar year. 
20. 
".ga" means the top-level domain name for the Gabonese Republic according to 
the root zone database of the internet assigned numbers authority. 
21. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans'', dated July 31, 2010. 
22. 
"Indigenous Peoples" means a distinct, vulnerable, social and cultural group in the 
Borrower's territory possessing the following characteristics in varying degrees: 
(i) self-identification as members of a distinct indigenous cultural group and 
recognition of this identity by others; (ii) collective attachment to geographically 
distinct habitats or ancestral territories in the Project area and to the natural 
resources in these habitats and territories; (iii) customary cultural, economic, 
social, or political institutions that are separate from those of the dominant society 
and culture; and (iv) an indigenous language, often different from the official 
language of the Borrower or region. 
23. 
"Indigenous Peoples Plan" or "IPP" means a plan to be prepared by the Borrower 
in accordance with the parameters laid down in the IPPF (as hereinafter defined) 
-22-
and acceptable to the Bank and developed on the basis of a social assessment and 
in consultation with the affected Indigenous Peoples' communities present in, or 
that have a collective attachment to the Project area, setting out the measures 
through which the Borrower shall ensure that: (i) Indigenous Peoples affected by 
the Project receive culturally appropriate social and economic benefits; and (ii) 
when potential adverse effects on Indigenous Peoples are identified, those adverse 
effects are avoided, minimized, mitigated, or compensated for. 
24. 
"Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework" and "IPPF" means the framework 
adopted by the Borrower on January 31, 2012, disclosed in country on January 31, 
2012 and at the Bank's Infoshop on January 31, 2012, setting forth: (i) the types of 
activities likely to be proposed for financing under Part 2 of the Project; (ii) the 
potential positive and adverse effects of such activities on the Indigenous Peoples; 
(iii) a plan for the carrying out of the social assessment for such activities; (iv) a 
framework for ensuring free, prior, and informed consultation with the affected 
Indigenous Peoples' communities at each stage of Project preparation and 
implementation; (v) institutional arrangements (including capacity building where 
necessary) for screening Project-supported activities, evaluating their effects on 
Indigenous 
Peoples, 
preparing 
IPPs, 
and 
addressing 
any 
grievances; 
(vi) monitoring and reporting arrangements, including mechanisms and 
benchmarks appropriate to the Project; and (vii) disclosure arrangements for IPPs 
to be prepared under the IPPF. 
25. 
"ICT" means information and communication technology. 
26. 
"Internet" means the network of networks that consists of millions of private, 
public, academic, business, and government networks, of local to global scope, 
that are linked by a broad array of electronic, wireless and optical networking 
technologies. 
27. 
"Internet Exchange Point" or "IXP" means a physical infrastructure through which 
Internet Service Providers (as hereinafter defined) and telecommunications 
operators exchange Internet traffic between their networks, allowing networks to 
interconnect directly, via the exchange, rather than through one or more third-party 
networks. 
28. 
"Internet Service Provider" or "ISP" means an organization that provides access 
to the Internet. 
29. 
"Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators" means the agreed monitoring and 
evaluation indicators set forth in the Project Implementation Manual (as 
hereinafter defined) to be utilized by the Borrower and the SPY (as hereinafter 
defined) to measure the progress in the implementation of the Project and the 
degree to which the objectives thereof are being achieved. 
30. 
"Open Access" means access to terrestrial or submarine fiber optic systems by 
operators or service providers (holders of a telecommunications operating license 
or permit to engage in the provision of telecommunications infrastructure or 
-23-
services) on non-discriminatory, transparent terms (for pricing and non-pricing 
aspects) and cost-based pricing. 
31. 
"Operational Costs" means the expenditures incurred by the Borrower to finance: 
(i) the salaries of the staff of the CC SP FOG and the CN-TIPPEE (excluding civil 
servants) and state contributions thereon; (ii) per diem and travel expenses of the 
said staff to perform their responsibilities under the Project; (iii) fuel and vehicle 
maintenance and insurance; (iv) communication technology (including, without 
limitation, internet and telephone); (v) building security and maintenance; 
(vi) translation services, photocopies and publications; (vii) bank commissions; 
and (viii) utilities and office supplies, and which shall have been previously 
approved by the Bank for parallel financing under the Project. 
32. 
"Operator" means an independent and experienced private entity which: 
(i) provides bandwidth at wholesale prices to other retail structures (fixed 
operators, mobile operators and ISPs) and the Borrower', as the case may be; and 
(ii) is party to the SPY Wholesale Contract (as hereinafter defined). 
33. 
"Original Loan" means the loan provided to the Borrower pursuant to the Original 
Loan Agreement. 
34. 
"Original Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement for the Project between the 
Borrower and the Bank, dated May 21, 2012, (Loan No. 8150-GA). 
35. 
"Original Project" means the Project described in Schedule 1 to the Original Loan 
Agreement. 
36. 
"PPP" means public private partnership. 
37. 
"PPP Guidelines" means the agreed-upon guidelines to be followed by the 
Borrower for the purpose of implementing the PPP and Open Access model under 
the Project and set forth in the Annex to Schedule 2 to the Original Loan 
Agreement. 
38. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works 
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by 
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014). 
39. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated 
May 3, 2016, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from 
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
40. 
"Project Coordination Team" means the Borrower's Direction de projet, and 
referred to in paragraphs 1 (a) and (c) of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
41. 
"Project Implementation Unit" and "PIU" means the CN-TIPPEE. 
-24-
42. 
"Project Implementation Manual" means the Borrower's set of guidelines and 
procedures adopted by the Borrower for the purpose of implementing the Original 
Project and to be amended in accordance with Section LE of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, including the areas of monitoring and evaluation, coordination, 
financial management (including financial, administrative and accounting 
procedures, procurement, internal controls and audits), environment and social 
safeguards, and other provisions related to the institutional organization of the 
Project, as such guidelines and procedures may be amended from time to time with 
the prior written agreement of the Bank. 
43. 
"Resettlement" means: (i) the involuntary (i.e., an action that may be taken without 
a person's informed consent or power of choice) taking of land, including anything 
growing on or permanently affixed to such land, such as buildings and crops, 
resulting in: (A) relocation or loss of shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; 
or (C) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not the affected 
persons must move to another location; or (ii) the involuntary restriction of access 
to legally designated parks and protected areas resulting in adverse impacts on the 
livelihoods of the affected persons, and encompassing restrictions on the use of 
resources imposed on people living outside a park or protected area, or on those 
who continue living inside the park or protected area during and after Project 
implementation. 
44. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" or "RAP" means a site-specific resettlement and 
rehabilitation action plan to be prepared in accordance with the parameters laid 
down in the RPF (as hereinafter defined), acceptable to the Bank, and to be 
developed by the Borrower for the Displaced Persons in each site under Part 2 of 
the Project which involves Resettlement, and covering the following: (i) a baseline 
census and socioeconomic survey information; specific compensation rates and 
standards; policy entitlements related to any additional impacts identified through 
the census or survey; description of Resettlement sites and programs for 
improvement or restoration of livelihoods and standards of living; an 
implementation schedule for Resettlement activities; and detailed cost estimate; 
(ii) measures designed to ensure that the Displaced Persons: (A) are informed 
about their options and rights pertaining to Resettlement, consulted on, offered 
choices among, and provided with technically and economically feasible 
Resettlement alternatives; and (B) provided prompt and effective compensation at 
full replacement cost for losses of assets attributable directly to the Project; (iii) if 
the impacts include physical relocation, that the displaced persons are: (A) 
provided assistance (such as moving allowances) during relocation; (B) provided 
with residential housing, or housing sites, or, as required, agricultural sites for 
which a combination of productive potential, locational advantages, and other 
factors is at least equivalent to the advantages of the old site; and (C) offered 
support after displacement, for a transition period, based on a reasonable estimate 
of the time likely to be needed to restore their livelihood and standards of living; 
(iv) affordable and accessible grievance procedures, taking into account the 
availability of judicial recourse and community and traditional dispute settlement 
mechanisms; and (v) provided with development assistance in addition to 
-25-
compensation measures, such as land preparation, credit facilities, training, or job 
opportunities. 
45. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the resettlement policy 
framework adopted by the Borrower on January 31, 2012, disclosed in Country 
and at the Bank's lnfoshop on January 31, 2012, setting forth, inter alia, a 
description of the Project and components for which land acquisition and 
Resettlement are required, the principles and objectives governing Resettlement 
preparation and implementation, and a description of the process for preparing and 
approving a site-specific Resettlement Action Plan. 
46. 
"Special Purpose Vehicle Company" and "SPY" means the Borrower's holding 
company for digital assets (Societe de Patrimoine des Infrastructures Numeriques 
- "SPIN") established as a special purpose vehicle company by the Borrower in 
accordance with the SPY Legislation for the purposes of carrying out Part 2 of the 
Project. 
47. 
"SPY Legislation" means, collectively, law no. 026/PR/MENCP for June 19, 
2012, any implementation decree, resolutions and/or decisions of the Borrower 
that have been adopted and approved for the purposes of creating, registering and 
making the SPY operational, and the SPV's articles of incorporation, by-laws and 
charter. 
48. 
"SPY Wholesale Contract" means the agreement entered into between the SPY 
and the Operator and signed by the Operator on March 30, 2015, and by the SPY 
on March 25, 2015, and to be amended in accordance with Section LB (d) of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and acceptable to the Bank, for the operation, 
maintenance and commercialization of bandwidth on the national backbone, on a 
wholesale basis, to licensed operators in the Borrower's territory and in third 
countries. 
49. 
"Steering Committee" means the Borrower's Comite de Pilotage, and referred to 
in paragraphs 1 (a) and (b) of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
50. 
"Training" means the training referred to in Section I.F. to Schedule 2 of this 
Agreement. 
51. 
"XAF" means the Central African CF A franc, the currency of the Borrower and 
the following states in Central Africa: Republic of Cameroon, Central African 
Republic, Republic of Chad, Republic of the Congo, and the Republic of 
Equatorial Guinea. 
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows: 
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section 
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below. 
-26-
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows: 
"Section 3.0 I. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge 
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at 
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee"). 
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the 
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the 
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty 
(60) days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which 
amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. The 
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment 
Date." 
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and 
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in 
paragraph 2 above. 
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following 
definition of "Commitment Charge'', and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs 
accordingly: 
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the 
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.0l(b)." 
Section III. 
Amendment to Original Loan Agreement 
The Closing Date referred to Section IV.B.2 of Schedule 2 to the Original Loan 
Agreement is hereby extended to June 30, 2018. 
