LOAN NUMBER 8607-GE
Loan Agreement
(Additional Financing for Second Regional Development Project)
between
GEORGIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
for the purpose of Schedule 4
Dated 
NC, 
2016
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8607-GE
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
P 
, 2016, between
GEORGIA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing additional financing for the
Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) and activities related
thereto, and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION ("Association") for
the purpose of Schedule 4. The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of nine million Dollars ($9,000,000)
("Loan"), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement
("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
-2-
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April I and October 1 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project Implementing
Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions
and the Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that the
Project Implementing Entity's Legislation has been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability
of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to
the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower,
through its Ministry of Finance, and by the Ministry of Regional
Development and Infrastructure and the Project Implementing Entity.
(b) 
The Project Operations Manual has been updated and adopted by the
Project Implementing Entity in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the Subsidiary
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Project
Implementing Entity and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the Project
Implementing Entity in accordance with its terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
-4-
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
16 Gorgasali Street
0114 Tbilisi
Georgia
Facsimile:
995-32-2262423
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at Tbilisi, Georgia, as of the day and year first above written.
GEORGIA
By
Autori 
d Representative
Name: 
A F?tof o.
Title: AGs er ipf Akwo ez
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
for the purpose of Schedule 4
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
ewA 
"?&
Title: 
6Oa &7i 
t" f(ecior
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve infrastructure services and institutional
capacity to support increased contribution of tourism in the local economy of the Imereti
region.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:Infrastructure Investment
Provision of financing for carrying out Investment Subprojects for: (1) the urban
regeneration of Tskaltubo which includes: (a) the rehabilitation of municipal infrastructure
and utilities; (b) the upgrading of public spaces, parks, and construction of tourism
amenities; and (c) the restoration of public buildings with vernacular architecture; and (2)
tourism circuit development which includes: (a) improving urban landscaping and public
parking; (b) the construction of info kiosks, cafes and public toilets; (c) the reconstruction,
restoration and/or refurbishment of the exterior and interior of the Vani museum; (d)
improving access roads; and (e) the preservation of selected cultural heritage sites.
Part B: Institutional Development
Enhancing the institutional capacity and performance of the Georgia National
Tourism Administration (GNTA), the Agency for Culture Heritage Preservation of
Georgia (ACHP), the National Museum, the Project Implementing Entity, and other local
and regional entities to carry out the following activities: (1) the establishment of the
Tskaltubo destination management and development office; (2) sustainable development
and promotion; the establishment of the geotourism routes and tourism portal and
conducting a local outreach campaign; (3) the preparation of visitors' management plans
for the sustainability of the Project's cultural heritage sites; (4) skilled workforce
development and capacity building; (5) monitoring and evaluation of performance; and (6)
the provision of construction supervision support.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the Project
in accordance with this Agreement, the Project Agreement, the Subsidiary
Agreement and the Project Operations Manual and shall not amend, suspend,
abrogate, repeal or waive any provision of said Manual without the prior written
approval of the Bank.
2. 
For the purpose of ensuring the proper coordination and execution of the Project,
the Borrower shall maintain the supervisory board of the Project Implementing
Entity. The functions of said board shall include, inter alia: (a) overall supervision
of the implementation of the Project; (b) inter-agency coordination to achieve the
Project objectives; and (c) review and approval of the annual work programs'
budgets and reports for the operation of the Project Implementing Entity.
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds
of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity, on a grant basis, under a
subsidiary agreement between the Borrower, through its Ministry of Finance, and
by the Ministry of Regional Development and Infrastructure and the Project
Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions approved by the Bank
("Subsidiary Agreement").
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish
the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its
provisions.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D. 
Investment Subprojects
1. 
For purposes of Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall cause the Project
Implementing Entity to carry out Investment Subprojects for the benefit of the
-8-
Beneficiaries, in each case under an Investment Subproject Agreement with each
Beneficiary, in accordance with eligibility criteria and procedures acceptable to the
Bank, and set forth in the Project Operations Manual and in accordance with the
Project Agreement.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to enter into Investment
Subproject Agreements under terms and conditions approved by the Bank, which
shall include that the Project Implementing Entity shall obtain rights and
obligations adequate to protect its interests and those of the Borrower and the
Bank, as set forth in the Project Agreement.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to exercise its rights
under each Investment Subproject Agreement in such manner as to protect its
interests and those of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes
of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Investment Subproject Agreement or any of
its provisions.
E. 
Safeguards
1 .
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out by the Project
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of the EMF, EA(s),
EMP(s), RPF and RAP(s). The Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the EMF, EA(s), EMP(s), RPF and RAP(s) or any provision thereof, without
the prior approval of the Bank.
2. 
For purposes of Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall cause the Project
Implementing Entity:
(a) 
prior to the preparation of the Subproject Summary Report or Subproject
Appraisal Report for each Investment Subproject, to submit to the Bank
for its approval: (i) the proposed design and site for said Investment
Subproject; (ii) the proposed environmental assessment category and risk
rating assigned thereto; (iii) the proposed environmental instrument to be
prepared; and (iv) the assessment of whether a RAP would need to be
prepared for the said Investment Subproject;
(b) 
when presenting an Investment Subproject to the Bank for approval, to
furnish to the Bank a Subproject Summary Report or a Subproject
Appraisal Report, in form satisfactory to the Bank, which includes: (i) the
description of the proposed Investment Subproject and the respective
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii)
the related EA or a self-standing site-specific EMP and RAP, as the case
may be, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; (iii) technical,
financial and economic analysis of the proposed Investment Subproject;
-9-
and (iv) the proposed terms and conditions of the Investment Subproject
Agreement to be used for the Investment Subproject;
(c) 
prior to the issuance of the bidding documents for the works contract for
each Investment Subproject, to prepare and submit to the Bank for its
approval: (i) the draft bidding documents, including site-specific EMP;
and (ii) the evidence that the said EMP has been disclosed and consulted
with Investment Subproject-affected people; and
(d) 
if an Investment Subproject requires land acquisition or resettlement, prior
to the commencement of the works under such Investment Subproject, to
ensure that the owners and users of the land or other property affected by
said works are fully compensated in accordance with the provisions of the
RAP(s).
3. 
The Borrower shall: (a) ensure that all activities undertaken for the purpose of
carrying out of the Project comply with environmental standards and guidelines
satisfactory to the Bank; (b) ensure that the selection of any Investment Subproject
under Part A of the Project is done in accordance with the provisions of the EMF;
(c) ensure the complete implementation of the EMP(s) in a manner acceptable to
the Bank, including all necessary measures to minimize and to mitigate any
adverse environmental impacts caused by the implementation of the Project; and
(d) maintain the Project Implementing Entity's environmental unit with competent
staff in adequate numbers and with such responsibilities and functions acceptable
to the Bank as shall enable the Project Implementing Entity to manage, coordinate
and monitor the implementation of the EMP(s).
4. 
Prior to carrying out any Investment Subproject that requires land acquisition or
resettlement, in the opinion of the Bank, the Borrower shall:
(a) 
ensure that the Project Implementing Entity prepares the RAP(s)
according to the RPF;
(b) 
maintain or cause to be maintained by the Project Implementing Entity,
and publicize or cause to be publicized by the Project Implementing
Entity, the availability of, grievance procedures to hear and determine
fairly and in good faith, in accordance with the RPF, all complaints raised
in relation to the implementation of the RAP(s), and take all measures
necessary to implement the determinations made under such grievance
procedures;
(c) 
cause the Project Implementing Entity to review consistency of the RAP(s)
with the RPF and confirm implementation of RAP(s) prior to
commencement of works under each Investment Subproject for which a
RAP has been prepared;
-10-
(d) 
cause the Project Implementing Entity to employ a resettlement expert,
satisfactory to the Bank, to conduct an ex-post review of the
implementation of the RAP(s);
(e) 
cause the Project Implementing Entity to furnish promptly to the Bank the
findings and recommendations for follow up action resulting from each
such review; and
(f) 
cause 
the 
Project Implementing 
Entity to 
implement all 
such
recommendations for follow up action as are agreed with the Bank.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to
the Bank not later than one month after the end of the period covered by such
report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish
to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar
semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the semester,
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to have its Project
Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b)
of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the
period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for
each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after
the end of such period.
-11-
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections 11 and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1 .
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan:
(a) 
Limited International Bidding;
(b) 
National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following additional
provisions:
(i) 
"Open competitive procedures" (i.e. "public tender") shall be the
default rule. A single envelope procedure shall be used for the
submission of goods, works, or non-consulting services.
(ii) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely
circulated national daily newspaper allowing a minimum of thirty
(30) 
days for the 
preparation 
and 
submission 
of bids.
-12-
Advertisements published in foreign language newspapers shall
be in compliance with such a 30-day-minimum in number of days
for bids preparation and submission.
(iii) 
Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms. 
If
registration is required, it shall not be denied to eligible bidders
for reasons unrelated to their capacity and resources to
successfully perform the contract (e.g., mandatory membership in
professional organizations, classification, etc.). Post-qualification
shall be conducted to verify that the bidder has the capability and
resources to successfully perform the contract.
(iv) 
Government-owned enterprises or institutions in the Borrower's
country shall be eligible to participate in bidding only if they can
establish that they are legally and financially autonomous, operate
under commercial law and are not a dependent agency of the
Borrower. Government-owned enterprises or institutions in the
Borrower's country will be subject to the same bid and
performance security requirements as other bidders.
(v) 
Procuring entities shall use the appropriate Bank's sample bidding
documents, 
including pre-qualification 
documents, for the
procurement of goods, works, or non-consulting services, and
such documents shall contain draft contract and conditions of
contract including clauses on fraud and corruption, audit and
publication of award, all acceptable to the Bank.
(vi) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for
submission of bids. Bidder's representatives shall be permitted to
attend the bid opening.
(vii) 
Extension of bid validity shall be allowed once only for not more
than thirty (30) days. No further extensions should be requested
without the prior approval of the Bank.
(viii) 
Evaluation of bids shall be based on quantifiable criteria expressed
in monetary terms as defined in the bidding documents, no merit
point system and no domestic preference shall be used in the
evaluation of bids. Contracts shall be awarded to qualified bidders
having submitted the lowest evaluated substantially responsive
bid and no negotiations shall be carried out prior to contract
award.
(ix) 
Civil works contracts of long duration (e.g. more than eighteen
(18) months) shall contain an appropriate price adjustment clause.
-13-
(x) 
No bid shall be rejected purely on the basis that the bid price is
higher than the estimated budget for that procurement. All bids
shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Bank's
prior concurrence.
(c) 
Shopping; and
(d) 
Direct Contracting.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan:
(a) 
Quality-based Selection;
(b) 
Selection under a Fixed Budget;
(c) 
Least Cost Selection;
(d) 
Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications;
(e) 
Single-source Selection of consulting firms;
(f) 
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines
for the Selection of Individual Consultants; and
(g) 
Single-source procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
-14-
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised
from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant
to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non- 
100%
consulting services, 
8,797,500
consultants' services and
Training
(2) Operating Costs 
180,000 
100%
(3) Front-end Fee 
22,500 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(4) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar 
Section 2.08(c) of this
premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
9,000.000
-15-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $900,000 may be made for
payments made prior to this date but on or after February 25, 2016, for Eligible
Expenditures under Category (1).
2. 
The Closing Date is December 30, 2018.
-16-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each April 1 and October 1
Beginning October 1, 2034 
16.67%
through October 1, 2036
On April 1, 2037 
16.65%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
-17-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
-18-
SCHEDULE 4
Amendments to the Original Financing Agreement
A. 
The Borrower and the Association hereby agree to amend the Original Financing
Agreement as follows:
1. 
Schedule 1 to the Original Financing Agreement is hereby amended and
replaced by Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
2. 
Paragraph 2 of Section IV.B. of Schedule 2 to the Original Financing
Agreement is hereby amended and replaced in its entirety to read as
follows:
"2. 
The Closing Date is December 30, 2018."
3. 
The following definitions included in the Appendix to the Original
Financing Agreement are hereby amended and replaced in their entirety to
read as follows:
""Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
and Grants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011
(revised July 2014)."
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement
of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers" dated
January 2011 (revised July 2014)."
4. 
The following definition is added to Section I of the Appendix to the
Financing Agreement, in alphabetical order, and the rest of the definitions
are renumbered accordingly, as follows:
"Project 
Agreement" 
means 
the 
agreement 
between 
the
International 
Development 
Association 
and 
the 
Municipal
Development Fund, dated November 9, 2012, referred to in Section
3.01 
of this Agreement 
pursuant to 
which the Project
Implementing Entity shall carry out the Project."
-19-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Beneficiary" 
means an institution eligible to benefit from an Investment
Subproject and listed in the Project Operations Manual.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
4. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
5. 
"EA(s)" or "Environmental Assessment(s)" means the process(es) of analyzing
character, magnitude, and span of potential environmental impacts of an
Investment Subproject, to be carried out by the Project Implementing Entity for
preparing EMP(s) for high risk Investment Subprojects identified through the risk
assessment procedure provided in the EMF.
6. 
"EMF" or "Environmental Management Framework" means the Borrower's
environmental management framework, dated September 21, 2012, and updated
on February 25, 2016, satisfactory to the Bank, outlining the procedures for: (a)
screening Investment Subprojects based on their expected impacts on the natural
and social environment, and cultural heritage; (b) evaluating their risks; (c)
defining a need for environmental assessment as part of the procedure for
preparing EMP(s); (d) disclosure; and (e) management, related to the selection and
implementation of the Investment Subprojects under the Project.
7. 
"EMP(s)" or "Environmental Management Plan(s)" means the Borrower's site-
specific environmental management plan(s), acceptable to the Bank prepared or to
be prepared by the Project Implementing Entity during the Project implementation
in accordance with the EMF and approved by the Bank, describing environmental
mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures for any Investment Subproject
under the Project.
8. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
-20-
9. 
"Investment Subproject Agreement" means an agreement entered into between the
Project Implementing Entity and the Beneficiaries for the purposes of Part A of the
Project, in accordance with the provisions of the Project Operations Manual.
10. 
"Investment Subproject" means a subproject to be carried out in the Imereti region
for the benefit of Beneficiaries utilizing the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with Section D of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, Sections C, D.2 and D.4 of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.
11. 
"Ministry of Regional Development and Infrastructure" means the Borrower's
Ministry of Regional Development and Infrastructure, or any successor thereto.
12. 
"Ministry of Finance" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance, or any successor
thereto.
13. 
"National Museum" means the National Museum of Georgia established by virtue
of Government Decree No. 697 of December 25, 2014.
14. 
"Operating Costs" means reasonable expenditures incurred by the Borrower with
respect to Project implementation, management and monitoring, including the
costs of support staff salaries (excluding salaries of the Borrower's civil service
staff), communication, editing, printing and publication, translation, vehicle
operation and maintenance, bank charges, local travel costs and field trip expenses,
office rentals, utilities, and office supplies.
15. 
"Original Financing Agreement" means the agreement for a Second Regional
Development Project between Georgia and the International Development
Association, dated November 9, 2012 (Credit No. 5178-GE).
16. 
"Original Project" means the Project described in the Original Financing
Agreement.
17. 
"Original Project Agreement" means the project agreement between the
International Development Association and the Municipal Development Fund,
dated November 9, 2012 (Credit No. 5178-GE).
18. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
19. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
February 25, 2016 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines
and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
-21-
20. 
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development and the Municipal Development Fund, of even
date herewith, referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement pursuant to which the
Project Implementing Entity shall carry out the Project.
21. 
"Project Implementing 
Entity" 
means the Municipal 
Development Fund
established pursuant to Government Decree No. 558 dated October 30, 2015.
22. 
"Project Implementing Entity's Legislation" means the Charter of the Municipal
Development Fund established pursuant to Government Decree No. 558 dated
October 30, 2015.
23. 
"Project Operations Manual" means the manual prepared by the Project
Implementing Entity (as herein defined) dated September 21, 2012, satisfactory to
the Bank: (a) specifying the key instruments for the implementation and
coordination of the Project, including (i) the managerial, financial, administrative,
engineering and 
environmental 
policies 
and procedures of the Project
Implementing Entity (as herein defined) for the execution of the Project; (ii) the
procurement and financial management procedures; (iii) the eligibility criteria for
selection of Investment Subproject(s); (iv) the terms and conditions for Investment
Subproject Agreements; (v) procurement and implementation of Investment
Subprojects; and (vi) the staffing, management and responsibilities of the Project
Implementing Entity; and (b) including in Annex 4 thereto the EMF, as such
Project Operations Manual may be amended from time to time with the agreement
of the Bank.
24. 
"RAP" or "Resettlement Action Plan" means a resettlement action plan,
satisfactory to the Bank, to be prepared and implemented by the Project
Implementing Entity for carrying out activities under the Project in accordance
with the RPF (as hereinafter defined), to set out, inter alia, the principles and
objectives, the affected persons' eligibility criteria, compensation, assistance and
rehabilitation entitlements, as well as the monitoring and reporting arrangements
in conformity with the RPF (as hereinafter defined).
25. 
"RPF" or "Resettlement Policy Framework" means the Project Implementing
Entity's framework, dated September 21, 2012, satisfactory to the Bank, for the
carrying out of land acquisition activities under the Project, which sets out the
procedures to be followed in the carrying out of said activities as such framework
may be amended from time to time with the prior approval of the Bank.
26. 
"Subproject Appraisal Report" means the Subproject appraisal report referred to
in Section I.E.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
27. 
"Subproject Summary Report" means the Subproject summary report referred to
in Section I.E.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-22-
28. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the
proceeds of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity.
29. 
"Training" means expenditures incurred by the Borrower in connection with
carrying out training activities under Part B of the Project, including travel costs
and per diem for local trainees, study tours, workshops, conferences, rental of
facilities and equipment and training materials and related supplies.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1 .
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan
amount at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement
(the "Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective
dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan
Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-
annually in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified
in the Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
-23-
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties
to the Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions,
including (but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance,
interest, the Front-end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default
Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a
Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread
Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount
payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
