.. 
OFFICIAL 
DOCUMENTS 
LOAN NUMBER 8624-GA 
Loan Agreement 
(eGabon Project) 
between 
GABONESE REPUBLIC 
and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8624-GA 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
Agreement dated ~ 
'Z-!1 Z.Olf( , 2016, between GABONESE REPUBLIC 
("Borrower") 
and 
INTEIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II -
LOAN 
2.0 I. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty one million five hundred thousand Euros 
(€51,500,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), 
to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project"). 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance. 
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the 
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon a 
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable 
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains 
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) 
of the General Conditions. 
-2-
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization 
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest 
rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or 
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable 
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable 
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate 
based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the 
Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted 
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General 
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV 
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.09. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.08 of this Agreement 
and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in accordance with the 
provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis applicable to the aggregate 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each Interest Period shall be changed from 
the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full maturity of such amount in accordance 
with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines. 
-3-
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the 
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions. 
3 .02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project 
is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV -EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following namely, that the 
Project Operational Manual has been adopted in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I.B. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty ( 120) days after the date of 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister responsible for economy. 
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is: 
Ministere Developpement Durable, de l 'Economie, de la Promotion des 
Investissements et de la Prospective 
BP 747 
Libreville 
Gabonese Republic 
Telex: 
5409 GO 
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is: 
Facsimile: 
(241) 77 3 5 90 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Telex: 
248423(MCI) or 
64145(MCI) 
Facsimile: 
1-202-477-6391 
-4-
AGREED at Libreville, Gabonese Republic, as of the day and year first above written. 
GABONESE REPUBLIC 
By 
t..._ 
-
-1 
/)r 
-
11-
Name: ...;·b· 11. 
¥:k:0·,s .LVW1WY>Ok16uJ 
Title: 'd" .,, is-he J, , ll 
velaz~i,1-0<f!..,t t 
"l>__; ' c:t b le / ck \ C €'c<.MOU-1 , e, 1 6; I 4 ?ro•'Yrio -
\-iov. Joo h v~t't~vi\.s ~ l cb b ?ro_)-
~c\:1 >fl. 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
By 
Title: &q>'2ti:?.Y' 14 iee0\ 
Rt:,_esiJ:irJ ~e \a. 
Bu~ SJB T1ovid"l u ~. 
-5-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description 
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) improve the timeliness and availability of 
information to support the delivery and management of public health services; and (ii) foster the 
development and roll-out of eHealth applications and services, and ICT services more generally. 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part A: Strengthening the National Health Information System 
1. 
(a) preparing appropriate standards to guide the information system in the 
Borrower's health sector and organizing workshops designed to validate said 
standards at the national and local level; (b) managing and disseminating said 
standards through: (i) development of a data standard management system 
allowing for data to be stored, published and updated regularly in one place; and 
(ii) provision of Trainings and workshops for all stakeholders. 
2. 
Undertaking detailed feasibility and design studies for the NHIS aimed at 
developing a national eHealth architecture and provision of goods required for the 
purpose. 
3. 
Developing and implementing a change management strategy and undertaking an 
effective redesign process aiming at complementing the roll-out of the NHIS, 
including, inter a/ia: (a) strengthening the national structures responsible for the 
development and management of the NHIS with sufficient resources to support the 
national network of data managers; and (b) implementing a new governance model 
for health information that includes the regional and departmental stakeholders; 
and provision of Training in change management and operation of the NHIS. 
4. 
Developing and implementing an extensive knowledge management program in 
the eHealth sector, including: (a) international study tours in selected best practice 
countries; (b) establishment of an association to promote eHealth among private 
sector actors and health professionals; ( c) planning of an international eHealth 
forum in the Borrower's territory once the NHIS is successfully operational; and 
(d) carrying out dissemination and communication activities for all stakeholders. 
5. 
Developing an integrated NHIS based on the feasibility studies provided for under 
Part A.2. of the Project, to achieve a system with all necessary data transferable 
between various system modules and setting-up a national health information 
center responsible for data warehouse operation, management of norms and 
standards, system maintenance and operation of a helpdesk. 
-6-
6. 
Rolling-out the NHIS developed based on the feasibility studies prepared under 
Part A.2 of the Project, including provision of the hardware and software required 
for implementation, Operating Costs and related Trainings at the central level and 
in health facilities. 
7. 
Carrying out a program of activities aimed at building the capacity of technicians 
and information system capabilities of administrators within the MSPSSN and 
related agencies in information technology. 
8. 
Supporting the Borrower in the development of: (a) national health plan; and 
(b) results-based financing pilot in the health sector; and the implementation of 
said national health plan. 
Part B: Advancing the Digital Innovation Ecosystem Development 
1. 
Carrying out a program of activities to assist the Borrower in accelerating the 
development of a local digital innovation ecosystem, through: (a) undertaking 
feasibility studies for the establishment of private-sector led digital incubators on 
large and small scale level and organizing validation workshops for stakeholders; 
(b) designing and implementing a knowledge management program including 
study tours and an international digital innovation forum to promote digital 
innovation ecosystem 
in 
the 
Borrower's territory; 
(c) 
setting-up and 
operationalizing selected private-sector led incubators including, inter alia, 
provision and refurbishing of office space, assistance in managers recruitment, 
capacity building for incubators teams, and technical assistance in digital 
innovation system; ( d) developing and implementing a digital innovation 
ecosystem promotion strategy; ( e) undertaking studies with a focus on options to 
improve the enabling environment for digital entrepreneurs; and (t) provision of 
Training. 
2. 
Organizing a business plan compet1t1on aimed at ass1stmg entrepreneurs in 
launching new businesses with a focus on I CT-enabled business concepts, through: 
(a) organizing an information campaign to raise awareness and invite proposals for 
new business ideas; (b) selection of most promising business concepts; (c) support 
in the drafting of business plans and provision of required Training in the areas of 
business planning and entrepreneurship; ( d) provision of Sub-Grants to selected 
Beneficiaries as seed capital for specific development projects; and ( e) technical 
assistance and mentoring for the carrying out of Subprojects. 
3. 
Carrying out a program of activities aimed at energizing the software developers' 
community and attracting talent to the digital economy while providing skills and 
knowledge to develop startup projects, through the planning and implementation 
of digital competition series including Training; and international exchange 
programs in internet programming, entrepreneurship, and problem-solving skills. 
-7-
4. 
Carrying out a program of activities aimed at building the capacity of the ministry 
in charge of digital economy in digital economy policy design, oversight and 
implementation. 
Part. C: Project Management, coordination, monitoring and evaluation of the Project 
Support to the Borrower in the areas of Project coordination, supervision, financial 
management, procurement, monitoring and evaluation, communication, audits, and 
preparation and supervision of implementation of the Safeguard Instruments, preparation 
ofrelated surveys, including through the provision of Training, Operating Costs, goods and 
services for the required purpose. 
-8-
SCHEDULE2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
NHIS Strengthening Steering Committee 
In order to ensure proper implementation of Part A of the Project, the Borrower 
shall maintain at all times during Project implementation, with composition, mandate and 
resources satisfactory to the Bank, a committee, to be chaired by the Minister in charge of 
health and comprised of representatives of key ministries and agencies, to be responsible 
for providing overall guidance and strategic support to the Project, including, inter alia, 
endorsing the proposed Annual Work Plan and budget for Part A of the Project (the "NHIS 
Strengthening Steering Committee"). 
2. 
Digital Transformation Steering Committee 
In order to ensure proper implementation of Part B of the Project, the Borrower 
shall maintain at all times during Project implementation, with composition, mandate and 
resources satisfactory to the Bank, a committee, to be chaired by the Minister in charge of 
digital economy and comprised of representatives of key ministries and agencies, to be 
responsible for providing overall guidance and strategic support to the Project, including, 
inter alia, endorsing the proposed Annual Work Plan and budget for Part B the Project (the 
"Digital Transformation Steering Committee"). 
3. 
Project Implementation Unit 
In order to ensure proper and efficient implementation of the Project, the Borrower 
shall maintain, at all times during Project implementation, the CN-TIPPEE, with a 
mandate, staffing and other resources satisfactory to the Bank to be the implementation 
unit for the Project ("Project Implementation Unit" or "PIU"). To this end, the Project 
Implementation Unit shall be: (a) comprised of qualified and competent staff in adequate 
numbers; including the CN-TIPEE permanent secretary; a procurement specialist; a project 
manager; a financial management specialist; a monitoring and evaluation specialist; an 
environmental and social safeguard specialist; and an accountant; and (b) responsible for 
day to day Project coordination and implementation, including: (i) carrying out Project 
financial management and procurement activities; (ii) preparing Annual Work Plans and 
consolidating Annual Work Plans endorsed by the NHIS Strengthening Steering 
Committee and the Digital Transformation Steering Committee; (iii) ensuring compliance 
with Safeguard Instruments for Project activities; and (iv) monitoring and evaluating 
Project activities and preparing Project progress reports and monitoring and evaluation 
reports. 
-9-
B. 
Project Operational Manual 
I. 
Prior to the Effective Date, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with terms of 
reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank a proposed operational manual 
for 
the 
Project 
containing 
detailed: 
(a) 
implementation; 
(b) 
administrative; 
( c) procurement; ( d) financial management and accounting; ( e) monitoring and evaluation 
procedures and arrangements; and (f) a grievance mechanism for the Project. Said manual 
to further include, inter alia, an elaboration of the eligibility criteria and terms and 
conditions, and procedures for preparation, approval and monitoring and evaluation, of 
Sub-Grants. 
2. 
Prior to the Effective Date, the Borrower shall: (a) furnish such manual to the Bank for 
review and approval; (b) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said manual; and ( c) thereafter adopt said manual as shall have been 
approved by the Bank ("Project Operational Manual" and "POM"). 
3. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project Operational 
Manual; and shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be assigned, 
amended, abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned manual, or any provision thereof, 
without the prior written agreement of the Bank. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of any inconsistency between the provisions 
of the Project Operational Manual and those of this Agreement, the provisions of this 
Agreement shall prevail. 
C. 
Annual Work Plan 
I. 
The Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank not later than November 30 of each calendar year throughout the 
implementation of the Project, a work plan of activities proposed for inclusion in the 
Project for the next calendar year, together with a budget for such activities and a timetable 
for their implementation. 
2. 
The Borrower shall: (i) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on such proposed work plan; and thereafter; (ii) carry out such work plan 
during the period covered by said plan, according to such budget, both as shall have been 
approved by the Bank ("Annual Work Plan"). 
3. 
Only such activities as shall have been included in the Annual Work Plan shall be eligible 
for inclusion in the Project and for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
D. 
Anti-Corruption 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions 
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
-10-
E. 
Safeguards 
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions 
of the Safeguard Instruments. 
2. 
Without limitation upon its other reporting obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower 
shall regularly collect, compile and submit to the Bank every calendar semester, reports, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, on the status of compliance with the Safeguard 
Instruments, giving details of: 
(a) 
measures taken in furtherance of such Safeguard Instruments; 
(b) 
conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the smooth 
implementation of such Safeguard Instruments; and 
( c) 
remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such conditions. 
3. 
The Borrower shall afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to review the reports prepared 
under paragraph 2 of this Part D, and thereafter shall carry out or cause to be carried out, 
with due diligence, all remedial measures agreed with the Bank so as to ensure the proper 
implementation of the Project in accordance with the Safeguard Instruments. 
F. 
Sub-projects 
1. 
The Borrower shall make Sub-Grants to Beneficiaries for Sub-projects in accordance with 
eligibility criteria and procedures set forth in the POM and acceptable to the Bank, which 
shall include the following: 
(a) 
No proposed Sub-project shall be eligible for financing under a Sub-Grant to a 
Beneficiary unless the Borrower shall have determined on the basis of an appraisal 
carried out in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank and elaborated in 
the Project Operational Manual, that: 
(i) 
the proposed Sub-project: (A) is designed to encourage investments based 
on selected business plans; (B) is technically feasible and economically 
and financially viable; and (C) shall not include any civil works; and 
(ii) 
the proposed Beneficiary: (A) is a natural person or a legal entity 
established and operating under the laws of the Borrower with the 
organization, management, technical capacity and financial resources 
necessary 
to 
carry 
out 
the 
proposed 
Sub-project; 
and (B) has prepared a satisfactory business plan, including financing plan 
and budget, and a satisfactory implementation plan for the proposed Sub-
project. 
-11-
(b) 
The maximum amount: (i) of all Sub-Grants to a single Beneficiary shall not 
exceed the equivalent of US$80,000; and (ii) of each Sub-Grant for a Sub-project 
shall not exceed: (A) US$80,000 in the case of a medium enterprise as determined 
in accordance with the POM; and (B) US$40,000 in the case of a small enterprise 
as determined in accordance with the POM. 
2. 
The Borrower shall make each Sub-Grant under a Sub-Grant Agreement with the 
respective Beneficiary on terms and conditions approved by the Bank, which shall include 
the following: 
(a) 
The Sub-Grant shall be made on a non-reimbursable grant basis. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and those of the 
Bank, including the right to: 
(i) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the 
Sub-Grant, or obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount of the Sub-
Grant then withdrawn, upon the Beneficiary's failure to perform any of its 
obligations under the Sub-Grant Agreement; and 
(ii) 
require each Beneficiary to: 
(A) 
carry out its Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance 
with 
sound 
technical, 
economic, 
financial, 
managerial, environmental and social standards and practices 
satisfactory to the Bank, and the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
applicable to recipients of Joan proceeds other than the Borrower; 
(B) 
provide, promptly as needed, the resources required for the 
purpose; 
(C) 
procure the goods and services to be financed out of the Sub-Grant 
in accordance with the provisions of Section III of this Schedule; 
(D) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the progress of the Sub-project and the achievement of its 
objectives; 
(E) 
( 1) maintain a financial management system and prepare financial 
statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting 
standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to 
reflect its operations, including the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Sub-project; and (2) at the Bank's or 
the Borrower's request, have such financial statements audited by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with 
\ 
-12-
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, 
and promptly furnish the statements as so audited to the Borrower 
and the Bank, and permit the Bank to make such statements as so 
audited available to the public, along with the Sub-Grant 
Agreement; 
(F) 
enable the Borrower and the Bank to inspect the Sub-project, its 
operation and any relevant records and documents; and 
(G) 
prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such 
information as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably request 
relating to the foregoing. 
3. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each Sub-Grant 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Sub-Grant Agreement or any of 
its provisions. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
A. 
Project Reports 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and 
on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the 
period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five 
( 45) days after the end of the period covered by such report. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar 
quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions 
of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall 
cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower, commencing with the fiscal year in 
which the first withdrawal was made under the Preparation Advance for the Project. The 
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
-13-
4. 
The Borrower shall, not later than three (3) months after the Effective Date, upgrade the 
PIU's existing accounting software acceptable to the Bank, for the Project. 
Section III. 
Procurement 
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-consulting 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall 
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the 
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required forthe Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set 
forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and with the 
provisions of this Section. 
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to the 
corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis oflnternational Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The 
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for 
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts specified 
in the Procurement Plan: (a) Limited International Bidding; (b) National Competitive 
Bidding, subject to the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Section 111.B; ( c) Shopping; and 
(d) Procurement from UN Agency. 
3. 
Each bidding document and contract financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall provide 
that: (i) in accordance with paragraph 1.16 ( e) of the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding 
document and contract financed out of the proceeds of the financing will provide that: (a) 
the bidders, suppliers, contractors, and their subcontractors, agents, personnel, consultants, 
service providers, or suppliers will permit the World Bank as the Supervising Entity, at its 
request, to inspect all accounts, records and other documents relating to the submission of 
bids and contract performance, and will have said accounts and records audited by auditors 
appointed by the Bank/Supervising Entity; and (b) the deliberate and material violation of 
such provision may amount to an obstructive practice as defined in paragraph 1.16 (a)(v) 
of the Procurement Guidelines; (ii) invitations to bid shall be advertised in national 
newspapers with wide circulation; (iii) the bid evaluation, qualification of bidders and 
-14-
contract award criteria shall be clearly indicated in the bidding documents; (iv) bidders 
shall be given adequate response time (at least four weeks) to submit bids from the date of 
the invitation to bid or the date of availability of bidding documents, whichever is later; 
(v) eligible bidders, including foreign bidders, shall be allowed to participate; (vi) no 
domestic or CEMAC's regional preference shall be given to domestic or regional 
contractors, domestically or regionally manufactured goods; and association with national 
or regional firms shall not be a condition for participation in a bidding process; (vii) bids 
are awarded to the substantially responsive and the lowest evaluated bidder proven this 
bidder is qualified. No scoring system shall be allowed for the evaluation of bids, and no 
blanket limitation to the number of lots which can be awarded to a bidder shall apply; 
(viii) qualification criteria shall only concern the bidder's capability and resources to 
perform the contract taking into account objective and measurable factors. 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality and 
Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following methods, other 
than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of consultants' 
services for those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based 
Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed Budget; ( c) Least-Cost Selection; ( d) Selection based 
on Consultants' Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; 
(f) Selection oflndividual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection 
of Individual Consultants. 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's 
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
A. 
General 
l. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank Disbursement 
Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as 
made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to 
-15-
each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures 
in each Category. 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures 
Allocated 
to be financed 
(expressed in EUR) 
(inclusive Taxes) 
(1) Goods, works, non-
45,574,750 
100% 
consulting 
services, 
Training, 
operating 
costs, 
and 
consultants' services 
for the Project (except 
for Part B.2(d)) 
(2) Sub-Grants under Part 
1,202,500 
100% of amounts disbursed, 
B.2(d) of the Project 
payable under the respective 
Sub-Grant Agreements 
(3) Refund 
of 
the 
4,594,000 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Preparation Advance 
Section 2.07 (a) of the General 
Conditions 
(4) Front-end Fee 
128,750 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 
2.03 
of 
this 
Agreement in accordance with 
Section 2.07 (b) of the General 
Conditions 
(5) Interest Rate Cap or 
Amount 
due 
pursuant 
to 
Interest Rate Collar 
Section 
2.08(c) 
of 
this 
premium 
Agreement 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
51,500,000 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made from 
the Loan Account, (other than to repay the Preparation Advance) for payments made prior 
to the date of this Agreement. 
2. 
The Closing Date is January 5, 2022. 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings 
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that incubators referred to under Part B. l .( c) of the Project shall 
be set-up and operationalized with a ratio capital of 20% public funding and 80% private 
sector funding. 
-16-
SCHEDULE3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage 
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date 
("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: 
(a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment 
Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, 
to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percenta2e) 
On each April 15 and October 15 
Beginning October 15, 2021 
through October 15, 2035 
3.33% 
On April 15, 2036 
3.43% 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment 
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal 
Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
3. 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as 
of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original 
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and 
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
-17-
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on 
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency, 
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal 
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the 
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the 
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating 
to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
-18-
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
"Annual Work Plan" means each annual work plan together with the related budget for the 
Project approved by the Bank pursuant to the provision of Section I.C.1 of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud 
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated 
October 15, 2006, and revised in January 2011. 
3. 
"Beneficiary" means a natural person who is at least 18 years old, or a legal entity 
established and operating under the laws of the Borrower, to which the Borrower has 
extended a Sub-Grant to finance a startup business under Part B.2(d) of the Project pursuant 
to a Sub-Grant Agreement; and "Beneficiaries" means more than one such beneficiary. 
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
5. 
"CEMAC" means the public Economic and Monetary Community of Central Africa 
(Communaute Economique et Monetaire des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale). 
6. 
"CN-TIPPEE" means the Borrower's National Commission- Labor Intensive Small-Scale 
Public Infrastructure Works ("Commission Nationale - Travaux d'Jnteret Public pour la 
Promotion de l 'Entreprenariat et de l 'Emploi "), established and operating pursuant to the 
Borrower's Ministerial Decision (Arrete) No. 00007/PRIMPPD dated January 4, 2006, as 
the same may be amended from time to time, and responsible for carrying out projects 
which are in the public interest on behalf of all stakeholders (the government, regional and 
local administrations, non-governmental organizations or donors) with a view to 
implement best practices and sound governance. 
7. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants 
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January 
2011 (revised July 2014). 
8. 
"Digital Transformation Steering Committee" means the Borrower's committee 
established pursuant to Arrete No. 0134, dated February 11, 2016, and referred to in 
Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to 
time. 
9. 
"eHealth" means JCT used for the health sector. 
10. 
"Environmental and Social Impact Assessment" and "ESIA" each means, each of the 
Borrower's assessment for the Project, disclosed in the Borrower's territory on 
March 2, 2016, and at the Bank's Infoshop on February 28, 2016. 
-19-
11. 
"Environmental and Social Management Plan" and "ESMP" each means the Borrower's 
plan for the Project disclosed in the Borrower's territory on March 2, 2016, and at the 
Bank's lnjoshop on February 28, 2016, detailing: (a) the measures to be taken during the 
implementation and operation of the Project to eliminate or offset adverse environmental 
and social impacts, or to reduce them to acceptable levels; and (b) the actions needed to 
implement these measures, including monitoring and institution strengthening; and 
"ESMPs" means more than one ESMP. 
12. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in 
Section II of this Appendix. 
13. 
"ICT" means information communication technology. 
14. 
"NHIS" means national health information system. 
15. 
"NHIC" means a national health information center to be established under Part A.5 of the 
Project. 
16. 
"NHIS Strengthening Steering Committee" means the Borrower's committee established 
pursuant to Arrete No. 0276/MSPS/SG, dated September 11, 2015, and referred to in 
Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to 
time. 
17. 
"Operating Costs" means the incremental operating expenses incurred by the PIU, 
approved by the Bank under each Annual Work Plan and Budget, on account of the Project, 
including utilities and offices supplies, vehicle operation, maintenance and insurance, 
building and equipment maintenance costs, travel and supervision costs, and per diem, but 
excluding the salaries of officials and public servants of the Borrower's civil service. 
18. 
"Preparation Advance" means the advance referred to in Section 2.07(a) of the General 
Conditions, granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed 
on behalf of the Bank on November 30, 2015, and on behalf of the Borrower on 
November 25, 2015. 
19. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and 
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank 
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014 ). 
20. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated 
March 10, 2016, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to 
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
• 
.. . 
-20-
21. 
"Project Operational Manual" and "POM" each means the manual for the Project to be 
prepared and adopted in accordance with the provisions of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
22. 
"Project Implementation Unit" and "PIU", each means the unit to be established under the 
Project in accordance with Section I.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
23. 
"Safeguard Instruments" means, collectively, the ESIAs and the ESMPs. 
24. 
"Sub-Grant" means a grant made or to be made by the Borrower out of the proceeds of the 
Loan to a Beneficiary for a Subproject. 
25. 
"Sub-Grant Agreement" means an agreement between the Borrower and a Beneficiary 
providing for a Sub-Grant. 
26. 
"Subproject" means a specific development project under Part B.2 of the Project to be 
carried out by a Beneficiary out the proceeds of a Sub-Grant; and "Subprojects" means 
more than one Subproject. 
27. 
"Training" means the training of persons involved in Project-supported activities, such 
term including seminars, workshops, and study tours, and costs associated with such 
activity include travel and subsistence costs for training participants, costs associated with 
securing the services of trainers, rental of training facilities, preparation and reproduction 
of training materials, and other costs directly related to training preparation and 
implementation. 
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows: 
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers 
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below. 
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows: 
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge 
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate 
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee"). 
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan 
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The 
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan 
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually 
in arrears on each Payment Date." 
-21-
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs 
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above. 
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition 
of "Commitment Charge'', and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly: 
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan 
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.0 l(b )." 
I 
. 
• 
