OFFIGIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8558-CO
Loan Agreement
(Second Programmatic Sustained Growth and Income Convergence
Development Policy Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
f4tO/I*I /s 
,201(o
9VV
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
141RA /5 
, 201 (, 
entered into between REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
.
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to provide this financing on
the basis, inter alia, of (a) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and
which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower's
maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank
therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of six hundred and twenty four million two hundred
thousand Euros (E624,200,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement ("Loan").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in
accordance with Section II of Schedule I to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than sixty
days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e)
of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March I and September 1 in each year.
-2-
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis
applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable Spread to a Variable
Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or
(C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a
Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate
applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on
the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
2.09. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 of Section 11 of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall promptly
furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this Article I as the Bank
may, from time to time, reasonably request.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this
end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework and the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
(b) 
as part of each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for
its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section,
the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have the
effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action taken
under the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule I to this
Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a situation has
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be
carried out.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that the Bank
is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program and
with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance and Public Credit.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Carrera 8 No. 6 C 38 Bogota D.C Piso 30
E-Mail: Desmin@minhacienda.gov.co
Facsimile: (571) 350 9344
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at 
E% 
e A 
&TT 
rlQ(e/7& 
A 
4// 
as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
VIie-i 
ADkE 
StW 
q,1/64
Title: 
1>,2c 
, 
/ Crd
By
thorized Representative
Title: _ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_
INTERNATIONAL BA K FOR
RECONSTRUCTION A 
DEVELOPMENT
By
th 
id 
Representative
Name: -4j0A6 6 
//9
Title: 
//de ,A-5//6&7
Y4A,14O
-5-
WITNESSED BY
Name: 
£OAAvéÍ†k#O
Titie: 
f) 
A 
/A 
o
-6-
SCHEDULE1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
1. 
In order to promote the financing of projects under the 4G Concession Program, the
Borrower has: (i) reduced restrictions for pension funds to invest in private capital
infrastructure funds; and (ii) eased the requirements for funding operations in international
markets, as evidenced by the Borrower's Decree No. 1385, dated and published in the
Official Gazette on June 22, 2015; and the Borrower's Bank of the Republic (Banco de la
Repdblica) Resolution No. 4, dated April 24, 2015.
2. 
In order to improve and promote firms' access to credit, the Borrower has: (i) further
strengthened the collateral registry by regulating the mechanisms for the execution of
guarantees, and electronically linking the collateral registry with the existing vehicle
registry; and (ii) created a central registry for electronic invoices (Registro de Facturas
Electr6nicas) which, among other things, facilitates the use of invoices as collateral, as
evidenced by the Borrower's Decree No. 1835, dated and published in the Official Gazette
on September 16, 2015, and the Borrower's Law No. 1753-2015 (National Development
Plan 2014-2018), dated and published in the Official Gazette on June 9, 2015.
3. 
In order to continue fostering capital markets development, the Borrower has: (i)
established new governing rules for the management of mutual funds (Fondos de Inversion
Colectiva); and (ii) set internal policies, procedures and operating systems for the custody
of securities, as evidenced by the following Circulares Externas (CE) from the Borrower's
Financial Superintendence (Superintendencia Financiera de Colombia): CE No.015, dated
and published on June 13, 2014; CE No.026, dated and published on September 15, 2014;
CE No.031, dated and published on November 21, 2014; and CE No. 005 of 2015, dated
and published on March 30, 2015.
4. 
In order to strengthen the Public Employment Service (PES), the Borrower has defined the
institutional 
arrangements, 
responsibilities and information requirements for the
implementation of the PES management and job placement tools, as evidenced by the
Borrower's Ministry of Labor Resolution No. 1397, dated April 20, 2015 and published in
the Official Gazette on April 27, 2015, the Borrower's PES Special Administrative Unit
(Unidad Administrativa Especial del Servicio Pzblico de Empleo) Resolution No. 129,
dated March 3, 2015 and published in the Official Gazette on March 4, 2015, the
Borrower's Ministry of Labor Resolution No. 3418, dated August 14, 2014, and the
Borrower's Ministry of Labor Resolution No. 2605, dated June 25, 2014 and published in
the Official Gazette on July 1, 2015.
5. 
In order to improve the formation of professional skills, the Borrower has: (i) created the
national framework of professional qualifications and competencies; (ii) established a
system of transfers and credits connecting the different branches of tertiary education; and
(iii) defined the Ministry of Education as responsible for implementing this system, as
-7-
evidenced by the Borrower's Law No. 1753-2015 (National Development Plan 2014-
2018), dated and published in the Official Gazette on June 9, 2015.
6. 
In order to improve inclusive skills and income generation opportunities, the Borrower has
established a special regime for the administration of the educational system for Indigenous
Communities, including tertiary education, as evidenced by the Borrower's Decree No.
1953, dated and published in the Official Gazette on October 7, 2014.
7. 
In order to improve the effectiveness of public investment in innovation, the Borrower has:
(i) defined the criteria for formulation, selection and approval of innovation projects
financed with Royalties' Resources; and (ii) created an information platform to monitor
projects financed by royalties (MAPAREGALIAS), as evidenced by the Borrower's Law
No. 1753-2015 (National Development Plan 2014-2018), dated and published in the
Official Gazette on June 9, 2015; the Borrower's National Planning Department Accord
No. 0023, dated June 26, 2014 and published in the Official Gazette on June 27, 2014; the
Borrower's National Planning Department Accord No. 0027, dated April 30, 2015 and
published in the Official Gazette on May 5, 2015; and the Borrower's National Planning
Department Accord No. 0032, dated and published in the Official Gazette on July 28, 2015.
8. 
In order to strengthen the system of tax benefits for innovation, the Borrower has defined
the specific eligible expenses that could be granted as fiscal benefits, including firm-led
innovation, as evidenced by the Borrower's CONPES document No.3834, dated July 2,
2015.
9. 
In order to improve the coordination and allocation of resources for productive
development, the Borrower has unified its Governance System of Competitiveness and
Innovation with its Governance System for Science Technology and Innovation at national
and regional levels, as evidenced by the Borrower's Law No. 1753-2015 (National
Development Plan 2014-2018), dated and published in the Official Gazette on June 9,
2015.
10. 
In order to prevent new regulations from interfering with competitive practices, and in line
with best practices from the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development
(OECD), the Borrower has established procedures that require all agencies drafting new
regulations that could impact competitive practices to first consult with the Borrower's
Superintendence of Industry and Commerce, as evidenced by the Borrower's Decree No.
1609, dated and published in the Official Gazette on August 10, 2015.
11. 
In order to facilitate international trade, the Borrower has: (i) streamlined the procedures
for issuing authorizations to Authorized Economic Operators (AEO), and allowed AEO to
be considered for streamlined procedures to clear customs; and (ii) implemented an
integrated transit of goods with the Republic of Ecuador, as evidenced by the Borrower's
Decree No. 1894, dated and published in the Official Gazette on September 22, 2015; and
the Borrower's Direction of National Taxes and Customs (DIAN) Circular No. 22, dated
May 28, 2015.
-8-
Section H. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by
notice to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from
which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan
Allocated
(expressed in Euros)
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 
624,200,000
TOTAL AMOUNT 
624,200,000
C. 
Payment of Front-end Fee. No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account until
the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee.
D. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.
1. 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank
is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower, and (b) with
the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
E. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
I. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and
2. 
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower's budget
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
F. 
Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not
be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an
amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the amount
of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be
cancelled.
G. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is June 30, 2017.
AIf
-9-
SCHEDULE2
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: 
(a)
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment
Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary,
to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each March I and September 1
Beginning March 1, 2021 through
September 1, 2049 
1,69%
On March 1, 2050 
1,98%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as
of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding
on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall
be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
-10-
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating
to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-11-
APPENDIX
Section 1. 
Definitions
1. 
"4G Concession Program" means the Borrower's concessions road program that seeks to
reduce the gap in infrastructure and consolidate the national road network through
continuous connectivity between the centers of production and consumption, with the
major port areas and border areas of the Borrower's territory, as detailed in CONPES
document No. 3760, dated August 20, 2013.
2. 
"Authorized Economic Operators" or "AEO" means the individual or legal entity
established in the Borrower's territory that, by meeting specific requirements, guarantees
secure foreign trade transactions and therefore is authorized as such by the Borrower's
Direction of National Taxes and Customs (DIAN), as set forth in article 1 of the Borrower's
Decree No. 3568, dated and published in the Official Gazette on September 27, 2011.
3. 
"CONPES" means Consejo Nacional de Politica Economica y Social, the Borrower's
National Council for Economic and Social Policy.
4. 
"Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or international
financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association has financed
or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association has financed or agreed
to finance under another loan, credit, or grant;
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item
112 
Alcoholic beverages
121 
Tobacco, un-manufactured,
tobacco refuse
122 
Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)
525 
Radioactive and associated
materials
667 
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof, fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated,
for nuclear reactors
-12-
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing
machinery
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths' or
silversmiths' wares
(including set gems)
971 
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold ores and
concentrates)
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the
Borrower is a party;
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or
coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other
recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower (or other such recipient)
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address such
practices when they occur.
5. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section 11 of this Appendix.
6. 
"Governance System for Science Technology and Innovation" means the Borrower's
system for science technology and innovation (SNCTI, for its acronym in Spanish), as the
same is defined in the Borrower's Law No. 1286, dated January 23, 2009, as amended to
the date of this Agreement.
7. 
"Governance System of Competitiveness and Innovation" means the Borrower's system
for competitiveness and innovation, as defined in the Borrower's Decree No. 1500, dated
July 13 2012, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
8. 
"Indigenous Communities" means the group or set of families of amerindian descent in the
Borrower's territory, that: (a) are aware of their identity and share values, traits, habits or
customs of their culture; and (b) posses their own forms of governance, management,
public accountability or regulatory systems that distinguish them from other communities.
9. 
"Official Gazette" means the Borrower's Diario Oficial.
AW*1
-13-
10. 
"Public Employment Service (PES)" means the Borrower's public employment service
established pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 1636, dated and published in the Official
Gazette on June 18, 2013.
11. 
"Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to: (i) foster
solutions to develop infrastructure financing and increasing access to finance for firms; (ii)
build productive skills and improving their allocation; and (iii) strengthen regulations that
affect innovation and business efficiency, and set forth or referred to in the letter dated
October 23, 2015 from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower's commitment to
the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the
Program during its execution.
12. 
"Royalties' Resources" means the economic compensations for the exploitation of non
renewable natural ressources.
13. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category
entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
I. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for Withdrawal)
is deleted in its entirety.
3. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in their
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
4. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee, Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. 
The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date."
-14-
5. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management; Financial
Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the subsequent Sections in Article V
are renumbered accordingly.
6. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above and
relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
7. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above) is
modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until
two years after the Closing Date. 
The Borrower shall enable the Bank's
representatives to examine such records."
8. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above) is
modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
(c) 
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their respective
obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Loan."
9. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all references to Section numbers and paragraphs are
modified, as necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above.
10. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition
of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the remaining paragraphs accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
11. 
Renumbered paragraph 37 (originally paragraph 36) of the Appendix ("Eligible
Expenditure") is modified to read as follows:
"37. 
"Eligible Expenditure" means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the
Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan Agreement."
12. 
Renumbered paragraph 44 (originally paragraph 43) of the Appendix ("Financial
Statements") is deleted in its entirety.
13. 
In paragraph 48 of the Appendix, the definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing
the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
-15-
14. 
In paragraph 67 of the Appendix, the definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to
read as follows:
"67. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower."
15. 
In paragraph 72 of the Appendix, the definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting
the word "is" and inserting the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word
"interest".
16. 
The defined term "Project" in paragraph 75 of the Appendix is modified to read "Program"
and its definition is modified to read as follows (and all references to "Project" throughout
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to "Program"):
"75. 
"Program" means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of
which the Loan is made."
