OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8578-ID
Loan Agreement
(Second Additional Financing for Third Water Supply and Sanitation for Low-Income
Communities / Community Based Water Supply Project (PAMSIMAS III))
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
OWE 
$0 
,2016
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
2 of 26 
LOAN NUMBER 8578-ID
LOAN NUMBER 8578-ID
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated *40E SO , 2016, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA ("Borrower")
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the
purpose of providing additional financing for activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the
Appendix to this Agreement). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an integral
part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have the
meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
this Agreement, the amount of three hundred million United States Dollars (USD 300,000,000,
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing
the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent (0.25%)
of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than sixty days after
the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the
Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with
the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be
calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are January I and July 1 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
3 of 26 
LOAN NUMBER 8578-ID
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the terms
of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of the Loan
Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis
applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all or any portion
of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate
based on a Reference Rate and the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed
Reference Rate and the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount
of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate
Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted by
the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General Conditions, and
shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General
Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
2.09. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit (as said
terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of this Section), the Borrower
shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of one half of one percent (0.5%) per annum
of the Allocated Excess Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this
Section) for each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if any)
shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during which the
Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit, the product of: (A) the
total amount of said excess; and (B) the ratio of all (or, if the Bank so
determines, a portion) of the Loan to the aggregate amount of all (or the
equivalent portions) of the loans made by the Bank to the Borrower and to other
borrowers guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an exposure
surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined from time to time
by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the Bank's financial
exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded, would subject the Loan to the
Exposure Surcharge, as determined from time to time by the Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total financial exposure
to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
4 of 26 
LOAN NUMBER 8578-ID
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. 
To this end, the
Borrower shall implement the Project through MoPWH, MoH, MoHA, and MOVDAT in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as the
Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project is
carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Directorate General of Budget Financing and Risk Management
Ministry of Finance
Gedung Frans Seda
Jalan Dr. Wahidin No. I
Jakarta 10710
Indonesia
Telex: 
Facsimile:
FINMINISTRY 45799 
+62-21-381-2859
Jakarta
5 of 26 
LOAN NUMBER 8578-ID
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
AGREED at Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
WOBERT PAKPAHAN
PIFtScTOR CoStJSAL. VVSP&=
Title: ?4NAJC(CNG AND 
SlIc MjAN8AeMfI
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
S 
orized Representative
Name: 
A ,
Title:
6 of 26 
LOAN NUMBER 8578-ID
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to increase the number of under-served rural and peri-urban
populations accessing sustainable water supply and sanitation services.
The Project consists of the Original Project as modified below:
Part A: Community Empowerment and Local and Village Institutional Development
1 
(a) 
Provision of technical advisory services and training - for governmental and non-
governmental 
organizations, 
community 
facilitators 
as well 
as participating
communities - to support the preparation and implementation of Community Action
Plans (CAPs), focusing on informed choice, design and costs of community and school
water supply, community and school hygiene behavior change activities, school
sanitation facilities and post-construction management and sustainability.
(b) 
Recruitment and provision of community facilitators.
2. 
Provision of technical advisory services and training to strengthen inter-agency coordination at
the Province- and District-level and to develop the institutional capacity of the units, teams and
related personnel involved in the implementation of the Project, including development and
revision of guidelines and manuals, and training materials to ensure compliance with the
relevant rules and procedures.
3. 
(a) 
Provision of training, through the recruitment of a Training Development Services
(TDS) team at the national level, to provide support to PPMUs and DPMUs, including
planning, preparation and quality assurance for training and capacity building activities.
(b) 
Implementation of a program of activities designed to support capacity building and
advocacy activities for governments and civil society to improve overall WSS delivery,
encourage increase or reallocations in overall local government budgets in favor of
community-driven 
development 
WSS 
efforts, and promote post-construction
innovations to enhance the sustainability of WSS services.
4. 
Implementation of a program of capacity building and advocacy activities designed to enhance
sustainability of PAM SIMAS-supported water supply and sanitation services over the long-run,
such a program to include such activities as integrating of water and sanitation expenditures into
the mid-term and annual development plans of village government and facilitating increase of
village government's expenditures for maintenance and expansion of the existing water supply
facilities, including provision of capacity building and facilitation for asset management of WSS
facilities at village,level.
7 of 26 
LOAN NUMBER 8578-ID
Part B: Improving Hygiene and Sanitation Behavior and Services
1. 
Provision of technical advisory services and training to support implementation of a phased
program of community behavior change, consisting of the promotion of the community-led total
sanitation approach to: (i) safe excreta management; (ii) hand-washing and other locally relevant
environmental sanitation practices; (iii) water storing and handling; (iv) food hygiene; (v) solid
waste and wastewater management; and (vi) water quality surveillance.
2. 
Provision of technical advisory services and training, and carrying out of studies, to support a
sanitation and hygiene marketing program designed to generate consumer demand for improved
sanitation, facilitate the ability of local markets to respond to this demand, and promote
improved hygiene behavior.
3. 
Provision of technical advisory services and training to support school-based hygiene promotion
training and facilitation, and facilitate school-based hygiene promotion programs and health
education programs.
4. 
Provision of technical advisory services and training to strengthen the capacity of the units
responsible for environmental health and hygiene promotion in Participating Provinces and
Participating Districts to monitor progress in meeting their universal access of water supply and
sanitation, assess performance of their sanitation and hygiene programs and evaluate their
impact on hygiene behavior.
Part C: Water Supply and Public Sanitation Infrastructure
1. 
Provision of technical advisory services and training to support: (a) water supply systems for
new villages; (b) the scaling up and expansion of existing village water supply systems; and (c)
optimization of existing underperforming village water supply systems, through the design,
construction and commissioning and operation of water supply infrastructure at the community-
level, based on a menu of technical options, including: rapid technical assessments and
community WSS situation analysis to determine water demand and system options; informed
water system technology choice; technical surveys and development of the detailed engineering
designs; construction, supervision and quality control; and operations, maintenance and repair
training.
2. 
Provision of CAP Grants to support activities under CAPs.
Part D: District and Village Incentives
1. 
Provision of DVI Grants to Participating Districts that meet or exceed predetermined project
performance criteria based on the Participating District's achievement of WSS coverage,
contribution to CAP Grants, and management information system performance, to support
activities under CAPs.
2. 
(a) Provision of DVI Grants to Participating Villages that meet or exceed predetermined project
performance criteria based on the Participating Village's achievement of component specific
objectives of hygiene, community mobilization and contribution, and WSS coverage to support
complementary activities in view of the scaling up and expansion of existing community WSS
services; and (b) Carrying out of a program of specific activities to deliver water and sanitation
services at low-income communities, through the provision of output-based grants (OB Grants)
8 of 26 
LOAN NUMBER 8578-ID
to select Participating Villages, as well as associated technical advisory services and training
for administering the output-based disbursement including definition of outputs, costing of
output units and verification of outputs.
3. 
Provision of Support Grants to Participating Villages that are yet to meet predetermined project
performance criteria based on the Participating Village's achievement of component specific
objectives of hygiene, community mobilization and contribution, and WSS coverage to support
complementary activities for the purpose of supporting WSS system improvement and
institutional performance.
4. 
Carrying out a program of activities designed to support select associations of BPSPAMS in:
(i) providing technical assistance and support for preventive and corrective maintenance of
water supply and sanitation systems operated by BPSPAMS; (ii) providing facilitation support
for major technical maintenance; (iii) providing training to systems operators; (iv) promoting
health and hygiene education in the communities, in cooperation with local health agencies; (v)
improving management competencies in BPSPAMS, and (vi) establishing partnerships with
various stakeholders to facilitate service expansion of BPSPAMS.
Part E: Implementation Support and Project Management
1 .
Provision of technical support, management, advisory services and training, through the
recruitment of consultants, to provide support, for the benefit of CPMU, in terms of overall
Project management, monitoring of implementation and outcomes, expansion of the national
WSS program, and technical and financial reporting, as well as in the fields of sustainable WSS,
hygiene promotion, capacity building, institutional strengthening, social and environmental
safeguards and community empowerment.
2. 
Provision of oversight management services and training, through the recruitment of Regional
Oversight Management Services (ROMS) teams, to provide support, for the benefit of PPMUs
and DPMUs, in terms of day-to-day Project management, technical matters, implementation of
community-driven processes, institutional capacity building, social inclusion and environmental
safeguards, monitoring of implementation and sustainability of outcomes, and technical and
financial reporting at the Province-, District- and Village-level.
3. 
(a) 
Provision of technical advisory services and training, through the recruitment of
independent Project evaluation consultants, to evaluate Project performance, having
regard to the performance indicators referred to in Section II.A. 1 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
(b) 
Provision of technical advisory services and training for improved project monitoring
using the latest ICT technologies for: (i) data collection, data verification, and data use;
(ii) enhanced grievance redress mechanism to improve community feedback and
response mechanisms; and (iii) enhancement of monitoring of sanitation progress and
open-defecation free status, including the introduction of operational incentive
mechanisms for sanitation data collection by field sanitation officials at sub-district
level, improvement of monitoring of improved hygiene behaviors and increasing
sanitation data use for program planning.
9 of 26 
LOAN NUMBER 8578-ID
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
maintain a Project Coordination and Steering Committee (PCSC), chaired by Bappenas,
and whose mandate, composition and terms of reference shall be agreeable to the
Borrower and the Bank, responsible for providing overall guidance and strategic
direction in the implementation of the Project;
(b) 
maintain a PCSC secretariat/technical team, chaired by Bappenas, and whose mandate,
composition and terms of reference shall be acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank,
to serve as the secretariat and provide technical support to the PCSC;
(c) 
maintain a Central Project Management Unit (CPMU), chaired by a representative of
DGHS, and including, among others, representatives of MoH, MoHA, and MoVDAT
responsible for overall coordination, day-to-day management, budgeting, financial
administration, and monitoring and reporting, of the Project at the central level;
(d) 
ensure that:
(i) 
the CPMU shall be provided with adequate funds and other resources, and
supported by suitably qualified and experienced technical, financial and
administrative personnel in adequate numbers as needed to accomplish the
objectives of the Project; and
(ii) 
the CMAC shall provide support in terms of overall Project management
support, monitoring of implementation, environmental and social safeguard,
technical and financial reporting, as well as oversight and technical guidance to
consultants engaged at the level of Participating Provinces and Participating
Districts; and
(e) 
establish and maintain, a Training Development Services (TDS) team at the national
level, whose mandate, composition and terms of reference shall be acceptable to the
Borrower and the Bank, responsible for providing support to PPMUs and DPMUs,
including planning, environmental and social safeguard management, preparation and
quality assurance for training and capacity building activities.
10 of 26 
LOAN NUMBER 8578-ID
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that:
(a) 
there shall be established and/or maintained:
(i) 
in each Participating Province:
(A) 
a Provincial Coordinating Committee (PCC), chaired by the Bappeda,
whose mandate, composition and terms of reference shall be in
accordance with the Project Operations Manual, responsible for
coordination and monitoring of the Project at the Province-level; and
(B) 
a Provincial Project Management Unit (PPMU), headed by an official
of the Provincial Public Works Office, responsible for overall
coordination and management of the Project at the Province-level;
(ii) 
in each Participating District:
(A) 
a District Coordinating Committee (DCC), chaired by the Bappeda,
whose mandate, composition and terms of reference shall be in
accordance with the Project Operations Manual, responsible for
coordination and monitoring of the Project at the District-level; and
(B) 
a District Project Management Unit (DPMU), headed by an official of
the District Public Works Office, responsible for overall coordination
and management of the Project at the District-level; and
(iii) 
in each Participating Village, a Village Implementation Team (VIT)
responsible for the design and implementation of the Project at the Village-
level; and
(b) 
each PPMU and DPMU shall be provided with adequate funds and other resources, and
supported by suitably qualified and experienced personnel in adequate numbers as
needed to accomplish the objectives of the Project, including:
(i) 
ROMS responsible 
for overall coordination, day-to-day 
management,
budgeting, financial administration, environmental and social safeguard
management, monitoring and reporting, of the Project at the Province- and
District-level;
(ii) 
Community Facilitation Teams with expertise in technical, environmental and
social safeguard, health promotion and community development skills to assist
in the development and strengthening of equitable community institutions to
ensure sustainable improvements in WSS facilities and related behaviors; and
(iii) 
Stakeholders Committees at the District-level, which shall be established in
accordance with the Project Operations Manual, and which shall be in charge
of evaluating CAPs.
11 of 26 
LOAN NUMBER 8578-ID
B. 
Implementation Obligations
1 
(a) 
The Borrower shall maintain a Project Operations Manual, acceptable to the Borrower
and the Bank, giving details of guidelines and procedures agreed with the Bank for the
implementation, supervision, and monitoring and evaluation of the Project, including:
(i) 
implementation arrangements, along with the criteria, and terms and
conditions, for the selection of Participating Provinces and Participating
Districts;
(ii) 
details of a village implementation plan describing the community-driven
development process;
(iii) 
reporting, and monitoring and evaluation requirements, and financial
management and audit procedures as set forth in Section II of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement;
(iv) 
procurement procedures as set forth in Section III of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement as well as standard procurement documentation;
(v) 
details of the Environmental and Social Safeguards Policy Framework and its
implementation arrangements;
(vi) 
the criteria, for the review and selection of Sub-project proposals, as well as the
additional terms and conditions governing Grants as set forth in Part C of this
Section;
(vii) 
guidelines and procedures governing voluntary sales transactions and
voluntary land donations under Sub-projects; and
(viii) 
the Anti-Corruption Action Plan.
(b) 
The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with the Project Operations
Manual, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not waive,
amend or abrogate any provision thereof.
2. 
The Borrower shall: (a) prior to the beginning of each new Fiscal Year, provide to the Bank, for
review and comments, a proposed annual work program for that Fiscal Year, consisting of
detailed work plans and budget for that Fiscal Year for the CPMU and Participating Provinces
and Participating Districts; and (b) proceed thereafter to implement such annual work program
and budget, taking into consideration any comments that may have been made thereon by the
Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that both the English and Indonesian versions of the Anti-Corruption
Action Plan, as updated from time to time with a written agreement between the Borrower and
the Bank, as well as the annual work program referred to in paragraph 2 of this Section, as
approved by the Bank, are made publicly available until the completion of the Project, both in
hard copies to interested members of the public and through an official website designed under
the Project.
12 of 26 
LOAN NUMBER 8578-ID
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the terms of reference for any consultancies related to studies,
technical assistance and/or capacity building under this Agreement shall be satisfactory to the
Bank following its review thereof
C. 
Terms and Conditions Governing Grants
For purposes of providing Grants under the Project, the Borrower shall apply the proceeds of
the Loan allocated to finance Grants in accordance with the guidelines, procedures and criteria
set forth in the Project Operations Manual, including but without being limited to the following
terms and conditions:
1. 
No Grant shall be made to finance expenditures involving or likely to involve: (a) the
manufacture or use of environmentally hazardous goods (including asbestos, pesticides and
herbicides), arms or drugs; (b) the production, processing, handling, storage or sale of tobacco
or products containing tobacco; (c) activities within a nature reserve or any other area designated
by the Borrower for the management and/or the protection of biodiversity, except with the prior
written approval of the Borrower's agency responsible for the management and/or protection of
such area; (d) over-exploitation of water resources and/or contamination of domestic water
supplies; or (e) the provision of goods, works or services, directly or through intermediaries, by
suppliers or contractors, as the case may be, who have been declared ineligible to participate in
the procurement of any Bank-financed contract, whether indefinitely or for a stated period of
time, as a result of a decision made under the Sanctions System, but only to the extent that such
sanctions remain valid and applicable, according to the terms of the decision.
2. 
The proceeds of the Loan allocated to Grants, along with the overall number of Grants made or
to be made pursuant to this Agreement, shall be adjusted from time to time, taking into account
the rate of compliance by the Borrower and individual Beneficiaries with their respective
obligations under this Agreement and the relevant Sub-project Grant Agreements, including, in
the case of the Borrower, its obligation to provide counterpart funds under the Project.
3. 
No proposal for a Sub-project involving Indigenous Peoples shall be considered for approval
under the Project, unless: (a) the proposal has benefited from a process of free, prior and
informed consultation involving the affected Indigenous Peoples; (b) the free, prior and
informed consultation process has resulted in broad community support for the Sub-project
among the affected Indigenous Peoples; and (c) the Sub-project includes measures designed to
avoid potentially adverse effects on Indigenous Peoples or, where avoidance is not feasible, to
minimize, mitigate, or compensate for such effects in accordance with the Indigenous Peoples
Planning Framework.
4. 
CAP Grants shall be provided to Beneficiaries to support the physical construction and
implementation of WSS schemes selected from a menu of technical options, and community
and school water supply, sanitation and hygiene improvements, as the case may be.
5. 
DVI Grants shall be provided to Participating Districts and Participating Villages that meet or
exceed predetermined project performance criteria pursuant to a prior agreement between the
Participating Districts or Participating Villages, as the case may be, and DGHS; provided,
however that: (a) the performance criteria shall have been identified and publicized in advance
in all Participating Districts or Participating Villages, as the case may be; (b) DVI Grants shall
be provided on a competitive basis, and shall be limited to not more than a predetermined
number of Participating Districts and Participating Villages to be specified in the Project
13 of 26 
LOAN NUMBER 8578-ID
Operations Manual; and (c) the proceeds of DVI Grants shall be used as incentives for the
scaling-up and sustainability of the community-based rural water supply and sanitation
program.
6. 
Support Grants shall be provided to Participating Villages that are yet to meet predetermined
project performance criteria based on the Participating Village's achievement of component
specific objectives of hygiene, community mobilization and contribution, and WSS coverage to
support complementary activities for the purpose of supporting WSS system improvement and
institutional performance.
7. 
OB Grants. 
Without limitation to the provision of paragraph 9 below of this Part C the
respective Sub-project Grant Agreement for OB Grants shall specify: (a) the outputs and
performance targets to be achieved by the Beneficiary; (b) the arrangements for verification of
the quantity and quality of outputs delivered; and (c) the maximum Grant amounts payable
against the outputs specified in the Grant Agreement, the periodicity of payments, the conditions
for payments and the methodology for determining the amount of payments including the unit
cost of each output.
8. 
For purposes of every Sub-project, the Beneficiary shall ensure that: (a) the Sub-project shall
be implemented as far as reasonably practicable on publicly-owned land, or on land provided
voluntarily by the community or individual members of the community; (b) the Sub-project
shall not involve any compulsory acquisition of land, forcible eviction or involuntary
resettlement of persons or restriction of access to designated parks or protected areas; (c) where
unavoidable, land acquisition shall be kept to the strict minimum, and shall be undertaken
exclusively on the basis of mutually-agreed voluntary sales transactions or voluntary land
donations, and in accordance with the guidelines and procedures set forth in the Project
Operations Manual, including establishment of appropriate grievance redress mechanisms to
address potential disputes arising out of such sales or donations; and (d) the terms of reference
for any consultancies related to studies, technical assistance and/or capacity building under this
Agreement shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank following their review thereof.
9. 
For purposes of every Grant, a Sub-project Grant Agreement shall be signed with the
Beneficiary, setting forth the respective obligations of the parties thereunder, including: (a)
details of agreed disbursement schedules; (b) procurement procedures consistent with the
provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; (c) provisions for audits of the Grants;
(d) the respective amounts of counterpart contributions to be provided by the Beneficiary and
the Participating District; (e) the right of the Borrower and the Bank to visit any facilities
pertaining to the Sub-project and to carry out physical inspections of the progress of the Sub-
project; (f) an undertaking on the part of the Beneficiary to carry out its Sub-project in
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines; (g) the right of the Borrower
and the Bank to require audits of the Beneficiary's records and accounts; (h) the right of the
Borrower to suspend, terminate or accelerate or seek refund of the Grant; and (i) an undertaking
on the part of the Beneficiary to execute the Grant with due diligence and efficiency and, upon
its completion, to ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the Grant.
10. 
No Sub-project shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of a Grant unless a Sub-project
Grant Agreement has been concluded to this effect on terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement and the Project Operations Manual.
14 of 26 
LOAN NUMBER 8578-ID
D. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports
in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of
the indicators agreed with the Bank and set forth in the Project Operations Manual. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Bank not
later than forty five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.
2. 
No later than June 30, 2018, the Borrower shall, in conjunction with the Bank, carry out a mid-
term review of the Project (the "Mid-term Review"), covering the progress achieved in the
implementation of the Project. To this end, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
not less than three (3) months prior to the beginning of the Mid-term Review, a report integrating
the results of the Project's monitoring and evaluation activities, on the progress achieved in the
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of such report, and setting out
the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objective of the Project during the period following such date. Following
the Mid-term Review, the Borrower shall act promptly and diligently in order to take, or cause
to be taken, any corrective action deemed necessary by the Bank to remedy any shortcoming
noted in the carrying out of the Project in furtherance of the objective of the Project.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare and
furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than forty-five (45) days after the end
of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter,
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover
the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such
period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.
15 of 26 
LOAN NUMBER 8578-ID
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-consulting services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and with the provisions of this
Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular procurement
methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to the corresponding
method described in Sections II and III of the Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV
and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
16 of 26 
LOAN NUMBER 8578-ID
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
The
following methods, 
other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions
set forth in the annex to this Schedule; (b) Shopping; (c) Direct Contracting; and (d) Community
Participation procedures acceptable to the Bank.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality and
Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following methods, other than
Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of consultants' services for
those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b)
Least Cost Selection; (c) Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications; (d) Single-source
Selection of consulting firms; (e) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the
Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants; and (f) Single-source
procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's Prior
Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of
Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines
for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable
to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in
the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each
Category.
17 of 26 
LOAN NUMBER 8578-ID
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) 
financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, consultants' 
services, non- 
125,030,000 
80% of consultants'
consulting services, workshop and training 
services, and non-
under Parts A.1(a), A.2, A.3, A.4, B, C, 
consulting services;
D.4 and E of the Project 
100% of goods,
workshops and training
(2) Grants under Part C of the Project 
62,970,000 
100% of the Grant
amount disbursed
(3) 
Consultants' 
services 
and 
non- 
112,000,000 
100%
consulting services under Part A(1)(b) of
the Project
TOTAL AMOUNT 
300,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end
Fee; or
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2020.
18 of 26 
LOAN NUMBER 8578-ID
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
National Competitive Bidding: Modifications to Procedures
The procedures applicable to the procurement of goods, works, and non-consulting services under
contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding shall be those of the Pelelangan Umum
(Public Tendering) and Pemilihan Langsung / Pelelangan Sederhana (Simplified Tendering) methods
as set forth in the Borrower's Presidential Regulation No. 54/20 10 and its subsequent amendments as of
January 16, 2015, with the modifications set out below in order to ensure economy, efficiency,
transparency, and broad consistency with the provisions of Section I of the Procurement Guidelines,
pursuant to paragraph 3.3 of said Guidelines. The Pemilihan Langsung/Pelelangan Sederhana method
shall apply to such procurement up to the financial thresholds specified in said Regulation. In the event
of a conflict between the Borrower's procedures and these modifications, the latter shall govern.
1. 
Procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard bidding documents acceptable to the
Borrower and the Bank. 
The provisions of Section 1.16 (Fraud and Corruption) of the
Procurement Guidelines shall apply, and each bidding document and contract financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan shall include provisions on matters pertaining to fraud and corruption
as defined in paragraph 1. 16(a) of said Guidelines and the contract provisions set out in
paragraph 1.16(e) of said Guidelines.
2. 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding. If a registration process is required, a
foreign firm determined to be the lowest evaluated responsive bidder shall be given reasonable
time for registration. Foreign bidders shall not be required to form a joint venture or sub-
contract part of the supply of goods, non-consulting services, and works as a condition for
submitting bids or the award of the contract. Bidding documents shall be made available to all
international bidders.
3. 
No preference of any kind shall be given to any bidders.
4. 
Under the Pelelangan Umum method, bidders shall be allowed at least twenty-one (21) days
from the date of the invitation to bid or the date of availability of bidding documents, whichever
is later, to prepare and submit bids; this period shall be ten (10) days under the Pemilihan
Langsung / Pelelangan Sederhana method.
5. 
Bids invited under the Pelelangan Umum method shall be submitted in one (1) envelope and
evaluated using post-qualification.
6. 
No bidder shall be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with the owner's estimate and
budget ceiling without the Bank's prior written concurrence.
7. 
Bid security, if it is required by the bidding documents, at the bidder's option, shall be in the
form of a letter of credit or guarantee from a reputable bank or other reputable financial
institution and shall without exception follow the form provided for this purpose in the bidding
documents.
8. 
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Bank's prior written
concurrence.
19 of 26 
LOAN NUMBER 8578-ID
9. 
Government-owned enterprises in Indonesia shall be eligible to participate in bidding only if
they can establish that they are legally and financially autonomous, operate under commercial
law, and are not dependent agencies of the Borrower or sub-borrower.
20 of 26 
LOAN NUMBER 8578-ID
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of
the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date ("Installment
Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment
Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph
4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
July 1, 2023 
2.78
January 1, 2024 
2.85
July 1, 2024 
2.92
January 1, 2025 
2.99
July 1, 2025 
3.07
January 1, 2026 
3.15
July 1, 2026 
3.22
January 1, 2027 
3.30
July 1, 2027 
3.39
January 1, 2028 
3.47
July 1, 2028 
3.56
January 1, 2029 
3.65
July 1, 2029 
3.74
January 1, 2030 
3.83
July 1, 2030 
3.93
January 1, 2031 
4.03
July 1, 2031 
4.13
January 1, 2032 
4.23
July 1, 2032 
4.34
January 1, 2033 
4.44
July 1, 2033 
4.56
January 1, 2034 
4.67
July 1, 2034 
4.79
January 1, 2035 
4.91
July 1, 2035 
5.03
January 1, 2036 
5.02
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date,
the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date
shall be determined as follows:
21 of 26 
LOAN NUMBER 8578-ID
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date
in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on each
Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts determined
by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the
numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph
I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share") and
the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original Installment Shares for
Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, such amounts repayable to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any time
the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on or after
the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no
longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency, the
amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal Payment Date
occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such
amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the
Screen Rate.
22 of 26 
LOAN NUMBER 8578-ID
APPENDIX
Section 1. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Action Plan" means a stand-alone chapter of the Project Operations Manual
exclusively dedicated to the Borrower's anti-corruption action plan, giving details of a program
of actions, measures and policies designed to reduce or eliminate fraud and corruption in all its
forms under the Project, including enhanced information disclosure provisions, civil society
oversight provisions, mitigation measures to deal with the risks associated with collusion,
forgery and fraud, a complaint handling mechanism, and an appropriate regime of sanctions and
remedies.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and
Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated October
15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
3. 
"Bappeda" means Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Daerah or the Regional Development
Planning Agency of a Province or a District, as the case may be, or any successor thereto.
4. 
"Bappenas" means Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Nasional or the National Development
Planning Board of the Borrower, or any successor thereto.
5. 
"BPSPAMS" means Village Water-Board Committee, a community group that is given a
mandate by beneficiaries to manage the project funded-water supply facilities.
6. 
"Beneficiary" means a Participating District or Participating Village, as represented by a Village
Implementation Team, which is the recipient of a Grant and party to a Sub-project Grant
Agreement; and "Beneficiaries" means more than one Beneficiary.
7. 
"CAP" or "Community Action Plan" means a community action plan referred to under Part A. 1
of the Project, designed to ensure universal access to water and sanitation services and "CAPs"
means more than one CAP.
8. 
"CAP Grant" means a grant to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and designed to
finance a Sub-project under Part C.2 of the Project.
9. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
10. 
"Community Facilitation Team" means a Community Facilitation Team referred to under
paragraph 2(b)(ii) of Section L.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
11. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011
(revised July 2014).
12. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
23 of 26 
LOAN NUMBER 8578-ID
13. 
"CMAC" means the Central Management Advisory Consultants referred to in paragraph
(1)(d)(ii) of Section L.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
14. 
"CPMU" means the Central Project Management Unit referred to in paragraph 1(c) of Section
L.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
15. 
"DCC" means a District Coordinating Committee referred to in paragraph 2(a)(ii)(A) of Section
L.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement or any successor thereof.
16. 
"DGHS" means the Directorate General of Human Settlements of MoPWH, or any successor
thereto.
17. 
"District" means an administrative subdivision of a Province.
1 8. 
"DPMU" means a District Project Management Unit referred to in paragraph 2(a)(ii)(B) of
Section L.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
19. 
"DVI Grant" means a District Village Incentive grant, a grant designed to finance a Sub-project
under Parts D.1 and D.2 of the Project; and "DVI Grants" means more than one DVI Grant.
20. 
"Environmental and Social Safeguards Policy Framework" means the Environmental and Social
Safeguards Policy Framework issued by the Borrower on September 1, 2015, giving details of
a program of actions, measures and policies designed to maximize the benefits accruing under
the Project, avoid or mitigate any adverse impacts arising thereunder, or, if such adverse impacts
cannot be avoided altogether, reduce such impacts to acceptable levels, as the same may be
updated from time to time in agreement with the Bank.
21. 
"Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year commencing January I and ending December
31 of the same year.
22. 
"Grant" means any of CAP Grant, DVI Grant, Support Grant or GB Grant.
23. 
"ICT" means information and communication technologies.
24. 
"Indigenous Peoples" means those social groups in Indonesia that have a distinct social and
cultural identity, and that are susceptible to being disadvantaged in the development process
affected by the Project or any part thereof as follows: (a) masvarakat adat (customary law
communities) based on lineage or locality and bound by customary law with characteristics
including: (i) self-identification as a distinct indigenous cultural group; (ii) collective attachment
to ancestral territories and to the natural resources in the territories; and (iii) customary cultural,
economic, social, or political institutions; and (b) Komunitas Adat Terpencil (KAT) (Isolated
and Vulnerable communities), a category of customary law communities designated by the
Borrower that live in isolated areas with characteristics including: (i) collective attachment to
ancestral territories and to the natural resources in the territories; (ii) customary cultural,
economic, social, or political institutions; (iii) an indigenous language; (iv) having a subsistence
economy; (v) using simple tools and technology; (vi) having a high dependence on the
environment and local natural resources; and (vii) having restricted access to social, economic,
and political services.
24 of 26 
LOAN NUMBER 8578-ID
25. 
"Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework" means the updated Indigenous Peoples Planning
Framework issued by the Borrower on September 1, 2015, giving details of a program of
actions, measures and policies designed to facilitate a process of free, prior and informed
consultation involving Indigenous Peoples in the design and implementation of every Sub-
project, and to ensure that such Indigenous Peoples derive benefits from the Sub-project which
are socially, economically and culturally appropriate, and gender and inter-generationally
inclusive.
26. 
"MoH" or Ministry of Health means the Borrower's ministry responsible for health or any
successor thereto.
27. 
"MoHA" or Ministry of Home Affairs means the Borrower's ministry responsible for home
affairs or any successor thereto.
28. 
"MoPWH" or Ministry of Public Works and Housing means the Borrower's ministry
responsible for public works and housing or any successor thereto.
29. 
"MOVDAT" or Ministry of Villages, Disadvantaged Areas and Transmigrations means the
Borrower's ministry responsible for villages or any successor thereto.
30. 
"OB Grant" means the grant referred to in Part D.2(b) of the Project.
31. 
"Original Loan Agreement" means the agreement dated June 11, 2013 between the Borrower
and the Bank, as amended to the date of this Agreement (IBRD Loan No 8259-ID).
32. 
"Original Project" means the Project described in Schedule 1 to the Original Loan Agreement.
33. 
"Participating District" means any District in a Participating Province which is selected to
participate in the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Project Operations Manual.
34. 
"Participating Province" means any Province which is selected to participate in the Project in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Operations Manual.
35. 
"Participating Village" means any Village in a Participating District which is selected to
participate in the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Project Operations Manual.
36. 
"PCC" means a Provincial Coordinating Committee referred to in paragraph 2(a)(i)(A) of
Section L.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, or any successor thereof
37. 
"PC SC" means the Project Coordination and Steering Committee referred to in paragraph 1(a)
of Section L.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
38. 
"PPMU" means Provincial Project Management Unit referred to in paragraph 2(a)(i)(B) of
Section L.A of Schedule 2 of this Agreement.
39. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-
consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers"
dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
25 of 26 
LOAN NUMBER 8578-ID
40. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated October 20,
2015 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the
Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the
provisions of said paragraphs.
41. 
"Project Operations Manual" means the updated Project Operations Manual, dated October 20,
2015 referred to in paragraph 1(a) of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same
may be amended from time to time in agreement with the Bank, and such term includes any
schedules to the Project Operations Manual.
42. 
"Province" means an administrative subdivision of the Borrower's territory.
43. 
"ROMS" means Regional Oversight Management Services referred to under paragraph 2(b)(i)
of Section LA of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
44. 
"Sanctions System" means the system in the World Bank Group agencies to review allegations
of fraud and corruption under projects financed by the agencies and to impose appropriate
sanctions.
45. 
"Stakeholders Committee" means the stakeholders committee referred to under paragraph
2(b)(iii) of Section L.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and "Stakeholders Committees" means
more than one Stakeholders Committee.
46. 
"Sub-project" means a WSS scheme, a school sanitation and hygiene improvement program, or
complementary activities under Parts C or D of the Project, to be financed in whole or in part
out of the proceeds of a Grant.
47. 
"Sub-project Grant Agreement" means the Sub-project Grant Agreement referred to in
paragraph 7 of Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
48. 
"Support Grant" means the grant referred to in Part D.3 of the Project.
49. 
"TDS" means Training Development Services referred to under Part A.3 of this Project.
50. 
"Village" means an administrative subdivision of a District.
51. 
"VIT" means a Village Implementation Team referred to in paragraph 2(a)(iii) of Section L.A
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
52. 
"WSS" means water supply and sanitation.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers are
modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
26 of 26 
LOAN NUMBER 8578-ID
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). 
The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan Agreement
to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account
or cancelled. 
The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each
Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs are
modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition of
"Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan Agreement
for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
