OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8668-CO
Loan Agreement
(First Programmatic Territorial Development-Development Policy Loan)
bet,ween
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
-2-
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated as of the Signature Date, entered into between the RFPUB[ IC 01 COLOMBIA
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAI. 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUC1 ION 
AND
DFEVFLOPMFNT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to provide this linancing on
the basis, inter ala, of: (i) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and
which are described in Section I of Schedule I to this Agreement; and (ii) the Borrower's
maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework. 
The Borrower and the Bank
therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
101. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to thetmi in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of seven hundred sixteen million five hundred thousand
Euros (EUR716,500,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement
("Loan").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in
accordance with Section 1l of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than sixty
days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The Conunitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e)
of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are Apni 15 and October 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.108. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management (0 a change of
the Loan Currcncy of all or any portion of the principal amount of the I oan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest
rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the I oan
w ithdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(Bi all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Vanable
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the prncipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Spread; and (:ii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the
Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
2 (9 
Without limit.Ition upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 of Section 11 of the Appendix to this
-%greement and relating to Coopt ration and Consultation), the Borrower shall promptly
furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this Article II as the Bank
may, from time to time. reasonably request.
ARTICLE III -- PROGRAM
3.0. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this
end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party.
exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework and the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program
(b) 
pror to each such exchange of views. the Borrower, through DNP, shall furnish to
the Bank for its rev,ew and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying
out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and
(c) 
without limitation upon the pro%isions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section,
the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have the
effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action taken
under the Program.
ARTIClE I -
REMEDIES OF TIF BANK
-4-
4.01. 
The Additional F,ent of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a situation has
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it. will be
carried out.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely. that the Bank
is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program and
with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety 90) days after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance and Public Credit.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Carrera 8 No. 6 C 38 BogotA D.C Piso 30
E-Mail: Desmin(ninhacienda.gov.co
Facsimile: (571) 350 9344
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 11 Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1 -202-477-6391
64145(MC'I)
-5-
AGjREEiD at 
& Mt6 
dic(f 
1 
on hehalfofithe Bank on _QQigfythg 
£_ 
-
and on behalfoft ie Borrower on TJelrYe 242Q(6
REPUBLIC OF COLONIBIA
By 
ÅY-GpLt 
^
Authorized Representative
Name: 
A_ ( Q 
t0 
0 
& 
Y\
Titie-
By
Authorized Representative 
¢{
Name: 
\A ) C' 
CQ J
Title: 
__ 
d u('_ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Authorized Representative
Name: 
rssao 
Å. A N)eLd JYYin
ritle: 
Cotyi ry 
vM(nQC
4L
-6-
SCHEDULE I
Program Actions; Availabilit, of Loan Proceeds
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
1I 
The Borrower has approved a comprehensive property cadaster policy which: (I) re-
defines the roles and responsibilities of institutions and levels of government to separate
regulatory and implementation responsibilities: (ii) defines standards and methodologies
for surveying, recording and valuation of properties to transform the fiscal cadaster into
a multiple-purpose one; and (iii) mandates the updating of cadastral information of all
the land parcels in Colombia: all of this, as evidenced by the Borrower's No. CONPFS
3859, dated and published in the web page of DNP on June 13, 2016.
2. 
The Borrower, has established the institutional framework to, inter a/ia: (i) implement
access-to-land programs for rural productivity and equity; and (ii) support the process
forrural land formalization. all of this through the creation of the National Land Agency
and as evidenced by: (A) the Borrower's Decree No. 2363, dated and published in the
Borrower's Official Gazette on December 7, 2015; (B) the Borrower's Decree No. 419,
dated and published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on March 7, 2016; (C) the
Borrower's Decree No. 2365, dated and published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on
December 7, 2015; and (D) the Borrower's Decree No. 2369, dated and published in the
Borrower's Official Gazette on December 7, 2015.
3. 
The Borrower has strengthened the institutional framework for rural development
through the creation of the Rural Development Agency, which will plan, structure, co-
finance and implement rural development projects, as evidenced by: (i) the Borrower's
Decree No. 2364 dated and published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on December
7. 2015; (ii) the Borrower's Decree No. 418 dated and published in the Borrower's
Official Gazette on March 7, 2016; (iii) the Borrower's Decree No. 2365. dated and
published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on December 7, 2015; and (iv) the
Borrower's Decree No. 2369, dated and published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on
December 7, 2015.
4. 
The Borrower has approved a new territorial planning policy which enables: (i) the
development of territorial & land-use plans at the Department level to foster regional
integration; and (ii) the updating of municipal land-use plans under a new methodology
that incorporates urban-rural linkages, as of this as evidenced by the Borrower's
CONPES No. 3870, dated and published in the web page of DNP on October 24. 2016.
5. 
The Borrower has adopted a new policy that strengthens the Memoranda of
Understanding between national and sub-national governments (Ctntratom P/an) by. ()
requiring prioritization of investments with highest impact potential in areas of higher
needs; (ii) creating a regional fund to speed-up project execution; and (iii) ensuring co-
financing of investments from subnational governments; all of this as evidenced by the
Borrower's Decree No. 740, dated and published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on
May 4, 2016.
-7-
6 
1he Horower has centrabled the fical risk oversight of subnatnonal goernments in the
MI ICP through the unit"iation of reporing requirements to improve the quality of
regional liscal data, as cidenced by (0) the Borrower's Law No. 1753, dated and
published in the Borrower's Ofticial (Jazette on June 9, 20115; and ji) the Borrower's
Decree No I5,6, dated and published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on September
29. 20 i 6
1he Borrower has harmonized the public sector accounting practices to a single national
standard regime across government entities, including subnational governments. to be
applied on a mandatory basis from January 31, 2017, to enable comparability of data
across all sectors and levels of the Borrower: as evidenced by the Borrower's Resolution
No. 533, dated and published in the web page of the Borrower's General Accountant's
Office (Contaduria General Je la NacLi'n) on October 8, 2015.
8. 
The Borrower has enabled the use o:' Standard Proect Designs by subnational
go'oernments to reduce the time and cost in the procurement and execution of regional
and mun:cipal investment projects, as e idenced by the Borrower's CONPFS No. 3856.
dated and published im the web page of DNP on Npril 25, 2016, and the Borrower's
Decree No. 173. dated and published in the web page of the Borrower's Presidential
Office (tre.izdL ncia de la RcpubNa) on February 1, 2016.
Section H. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by
notice to the Borrower
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from
which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan
Allocated
(expressed in Euros)
Single Withdrawal 
716.500,000
Tranche
TOT 
AMOUNT 
716,500,000
C. 
Payment of Front-end Fee. No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account until
the Bank has recei%cd payment in full of the Front-end Fee.
1). 
Mvithdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is
-atisfied: (a) with the Program being carned out by the Borrower: and (b) with the adequacy
of the Borrower's macroeconomic policN framework.
E. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts. Excep: as the Bank nav otherwise agree.
all withdrawals from the I oan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and
2. 
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into
this account, an equilalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower's budget
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
F. 
Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not
be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an
amount of the I oan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure. the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the amount
of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be
cancelled.
G. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is December 31, 2017.
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
I hc Ikorrower snall rcpay the principal anount ofthc Loan in full on October 15 2036.
-1I0-
APPENDIX
Section 1. 
Definitions
I 
"CONPES" means Ctns. jo 
i :onal d Politta Eco'mziicta v Sycal, the Borrower's
council for national economic and social policy.
2. 
"Department" means Deparramtnto, an administrative subdivision of the Borrower.
3. 
"DNP" means the Borrower's National Planning Department, or any succcssor thereto
acceptable to the Bank.
4. 
"Fxcluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or international
financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association has tinanced
or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association has financed or agreed
to finance under another loan, credit, or grant;
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification. Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the
United Nations in Statistical Papers. Series M. No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC, 
or
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC. as
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item
112 
Alcoholic beverages
121 
Tobacco, un-manufactured.
tobacco refuse
122 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether
or not containing tobacco
substitutes)
525 
Radioactive and associated
materials
667 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718 
1718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof:
fuel elements (cartridges). non-
irradiated, for nuclear reactors
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and
watch cases) and goldsmiths' or
silversmiths' wares (including set
971 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
-ll-
(c) 
tor goods intended for a midtary or paramihtar) 
purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d) 
for environmentallv hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the
Borrower is a party:
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of !he United Nations Security
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
(f) 
xith respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or
coerc:ve practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other
recipient ot the Loan proceeds. without the Borrower (or other such recipient)
haking taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address such
practices when they occur.
5 
t icneral Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans". dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
6. 
Memoranda of L nderstanding" means Contratos Plan, the memoranda of understanding
signed between the Borrower's national and subnational levels of government with respect
to the prioitization of investments and their fundng.
"MI" CP 
means .thnisicrio dd 
1Lid -' 
Urtdtlo [LN o. the Borrower's Finance
Ministr.
8. 
"Ministry of"Agriculture and Rural Development" means the Borrower's ministry in charge
of agriculture and rural development.
q. 
"National Land Agency" means Agencia Nacional de Tierras, the Borrower's national land
agency.
10. 
Official Gazette" means the Borrower's Diario Oficial.
II 
"Program' means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote
growth and achieve sustainabie reductions i poverty and set forth or referred to in the
letter dated October 25, 2016 from the Borrower to the Bank declanng the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in
support ot the Program during its execution
12 
"Rural Development Agency" means Agencia d Desarrollo Rural, the Borrower's agency
for rural development.
I I 
-Sji3na!ure Date" means the lates! of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed the Loan \greeient
-12-
14. 
"Single Withdrawal I ranchc- means the amount of the Loan allocated to the catcLzn,
entitled "Single Withdrawal 
'ranche" in the table set forth in Part B of Sect,n I o
Schedule I to this Agreement.
I5. 
"Standard Project Designs" means designs of pre-defined investment projects that can be
rephcated using prototypes with common technical standards in different enironments
with small variations adapting to geographical and cultural differences (e.g, designs of
basic infrastructure projects such as construction of schools, local health facilities, bastc
water and sanitation, community and cultural centers, etc.).
Section [I. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section r.nmbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set foth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of' Section 2.03 (relating to Applications t6r Withdrawal)
is deleted in its entirety.
3. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in their
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article 11 are renumbered accordingly.
4. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01 . Front-end Fcc, Commitment (harge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Comintment Charge"). The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually
in arrears on each Payment Date."
5. 
Sections 5.01 (Proiect Execution Generally) and 5.09 (Financial Management, Financial
Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety. and the subsequent Sections in Article V
are renumbered accordingly.
6. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above and
relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
-13-
7 
Paragraph (c) of Svction 5 06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 abovc) is
motiFed to read as Folows
"Section 5.06. Plan. Docurncts,': R, cords
(cl 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until two years after
the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
records."
8 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as ;uch pursuant to paragraph 5 above) is
modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.07. Progran Vfni&rinig and Evaluation
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish to the
Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the
performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the
Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."
9. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all references to Section numbers and paragraphs are
modified, as necessary, to retlect the modifications set forth above.
Fi 
The Appendix is md,fied by inserting a new paragraph 19 and a new paragraph 88 with
the following definitions of "Commitment Charge" and "Signature date", respectively, and
renumhering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly:
'19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
-S8. 
Signature Date" means the latest of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed the Loan Agreement."
I 1. 
Renumbered paragraph 37 (originally paragraph 36) of the Appendix ("Eligible
Expenditure") is modified to read as follows:
"37. 
"Lligible Expenditure" means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the
Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan Agreement."
12. 
Renumbered paragraph 44 (originall- 
paragraph 43) of the Appendix ("Financial
Statements") is deleted in its entirety.
I3. 
In paragraph 48 ofthe Appendix, the definition of"F ront-end Fee" is modified by replacing
the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
-14-
14. 
In paragraph 67 of the Appendix. the definition of the term Loan Payment" is modified to
read as follows:
"67. 
"loan Payment" means any amount payable by the I oan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the legal Agreements or these (eneral Conditions. including (hut not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the front-end Fee, the
Comrrutment Charge. interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any). any prepayment
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower."
5. 
In paragraph 72 of the Appendix, the definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting
the word "is" and inserting the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word
"interest".
16. 
The defined term "Project" in paragraph 75 of the Appendix is moditled to read "Program"
and its definition is modified to read as follows (and all references to "Project" throughout
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to -Program"):
"75. 
"Program" means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of
which the Loan is made."
17. 
Any reference to "the date of the Loan Agreement" shall be modified with the term
"Signature Date"
