OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8513-IN
Loan Agreement
(Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor 3 Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
DEDICATED FREIGHT CORRIDOR CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Dated 
OeI-&Cg 
, 2016
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
-
-q a 
LOAN NUMBER 8513-IN
Agreement dated O41SA Z1, 2016, between DEDICATED FREIGHT CORRIDOR
CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby
agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of six hundred and fifty million United States Dollars
(USD 650,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to this
Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02
(e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
-2-
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or
vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference
Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.09. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit (as
said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of this Section), the
Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of one half of one percent
(0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-
paragraph (bXi) of this Section) for each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The
Exposure Surcharge (if any) shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each
Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set forth
below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during which
the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit, the product of:
(A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the ratio of all (or, if the
-3-
Bank so determines, a portion) of the Loan to the aggregate amount of all
(or the equivalent portions) of the loans made by the Bank to the
Borrower, the Guarantor and to other borrowers guaranteed by the
Guarantor that are also subject to an exposure surcharge, as said excess
and ratio are reasonably determined from time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the Bank's
financial exposure to the Guarantor which, if exceeded, would subject
the Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined from time to time by
the Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total financial
exposure to the Guarantor, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
the Borrower's Legal Framework has been amended, suspended, abrogated,
voided, repealed or waived, whether in whole or in part, so as to affect materially
and adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
this Agreement; or
(b) 
the Concession Agreement and/or the Track Access Agreement has/have been
suspended, abrogated, voided, repealed, waived or materially and adversely
amended whether in whole or in part, in a manner that would affect the Project
development objectives, without the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
-4-
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Managing Director.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India Ltd.
51 Floor, Pragati Maidan Building Complex
Pragati Maidan
New Delhi, 100 001
India
Facsimile:
+91 (11) 2345-4701
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at NFO 
b52-71 
, India, as of the day and year first above written.
DEDICATED FREIGHT CORRIDOR
CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
By;TzedRp 
naive
Name: "4 k
Title: 
AVC, iA 
C
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Byy 
_ 
_
Authorized Representative
Name: 
HfS"A" 
A6b0
Title: 
IMW
-6-
SCHEDULE I
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to: (a) provide additional rail transport capacity, improved
service quality and higher freight throughput on the 401 km Ludhiana-Khurja section of the
Eastern DFC; and (b) develop the institutional capacity of DFCCIL to build, maintain and
manage dedicated freight corridor infrastructure network.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Component A: Design, Construction and Commissioning of the Ludhiana-Khurja Rail
Corridor
Designing, constructing and commissioning the Ludhiana-Khurja section of the Eastern
DFC consisting of 401 km of single-track electrified railway designed for freight only
train operations with 25-ton axle load (upgradable to 32.5-ton axle load) at 100 km/h.
Component B: Institutional Development
Continuing the provision of institutional support to assist DFCCIL to develop its
capability to build, maintain and manage the dedicated freight corridor infrastructure
network.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section 1. 
Implementation Arraneements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
maintain, throughout the period of implementation of the Project, suitably
qualified personnel in adequate numbers, to carry out the functions of
procurement, 
contract 
management, 
financial 
management, 
social 
and
environmental management, and general Project oversight, monitoring and
reporting;
(b) 
maintain, throughout the period of implementation of the Project, a social and
environmental management unit with staff at headquarters and in field offices,
with functions, powers, staff and resources necessary and appropriate for: (i)
implementing social and environmental safeguards measures required under the
RPF, the SIA, the RAP(s), the EMF, the EA(s) and the EMP(s); and (ii) in the
event of any major alteration in alignment under the Project, prior to issuance of
the request for proposals under the altered alignment, ensuring that the EMP(s)
and the RAP(s) for such altered stretch/alignment shall be updated based on the
provisions of the EMF and RPF respectively, and approved by the Bank, and that
necessary and required social and environmental clearances are obtained from
India's relevant authorities;
(c) 
engage by no later than six (6) months after the Effective Date, and thereafter
maintain throughout the duration of construction activities: (i) a quality and
safety audit consultant ("QSAC"); and (ii) a social and environmental safeguards
monitoring and review consultant ("SESMRC"), all with qualifications and
experience, and under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, in order to
prepare and submit to the Borrower and the Bank quarterly monitoring reports on
the implementation of civil work and compliance with the Safeguard Documents
throughout the duration of construction activities under the Project; and
(d) 
engage by no later than three (3) months as of the award for the first civil works
contract for the Project, and thereafter maintain throughout the period of
implementation of the Project, a project management consultant ("PMC") with
qualifications and experience, and under terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank, in order to assist the Borrower with contract management functions for the
design-build contracts, and the general implementation of the Project.
-8-
B. 
Project Documents
1. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
implement the Project in accordance with the Project Implementation Manual,
the Concession Agreement, and the Track Access Agreement, provided however,
that in the event of conflict between the provisions of said manual and,
agreements, on the one hand, and those of this Agreement, on the other hand, the
provisions of this Agreement shall prevail; and
(b) 
refrain from suspending, voiding, waiving or materially and adversely amending,
whether in whole or in part, any provision of the Project Implementation Manual,
the Concession Agreement, and/or the Track Access Agreement, without the
prior written concurrence of the Bank.
C. 
Signaling and Telecommunications Systems
Prior to the award for any contract for the installation of electrical, signaling and
telecommunications systems for the Ludhiana-Khurja stretch of the Eastern DFC, the
Borrower shall:
(a) 
agree with the respective contractor(s) carrying out the construction of the
railway track, a partial/phased plan for such installation in order to enable the
contractors to complete their work in accordance with the agreed work program;
and
(b) 
agree with the respective and relevant authorities, and/or utilities, on a system
interconnection and relocation plan to enable contractor to complete their work.
D. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
E. 
Track Access Agreement
Prior to commencement of commercial operations of the Project section of the Eastern
DFC financed by the Loan, the Borrower shall ensure that a track access regime agreed
with the Bank is in place and operational.
F. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
carry out the Project in accordance/compliance with the Management Framework
("EMF"), the Resettlement Policy Framework ("RPF"), the Environmental
Assessments 
("EA(s)"), 
the 
Social 
Impact 
Assessment 
("SIA"), 
the
-9-
Environmental Management Plans ("EMP(s)") and the Resettlement Action
Plans ("RAP(s)") (the EMF, RPF, EA(s), SIA, EMP(s) and RAP(s) collectively
referred to as the "Safeguard Documents"), and pursuant to the objectives,
policies, procedures, time schedules, compensation arrangements and other
provisions set forth therein, in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank;
and
(b) 
refrain from taking any action which would prevent or interfere with the
implementation of any of the Safeguard Documents, including any amendment,
suspension, waiver, and/or voidance of any provision of any of the Safeguard
Documents, whether in whole or in part, without the prior written concurrence of
the Bank.
2. 
Without limitation to the provision of the foregoing paragraph 1, the Borrower shall
refrain from inviting price bids, and/or selecting any contractors, for the construction of
the Khurja-Pilakhni section (or any fraction thereof) of the Eastern DFC, until and unless:
(a) 
the Borrower has screened and carried out the SIA and EA(s) of the proposed
civil works, pursuant to the provisions of the RPF and EMF, and prepared the
required RAP(s) and EMP(s), in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank;
(b) 
the Borrower has submitted for the Bank's no-objection the SIA, RAP(s), EA(s)
and EMP(s) prepared pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) above; and
(c) 
the Bank has reviewed such documents and notified the Borrower in writing of
the Bank's satisfaction therewith.
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that, prior to commencing any civil works under the Project:
(a) 
all necessary governmental permits and clearances for such civil works in the
respective stretch of railway track shall have been obtained from the competent
governmental authority/ics and submitted to the Bank;
(b) 
all pre-construction conditions imposed by the governmental authority/ies under
such permit(s) or clearance(s) shall have been complied with/fulfilled; and
(c) 
the respective section or stretch of railway track shall be encumbrance free, and
all resettlement measures set forth in the RAP(s) shall have been fully executed,
including the full payment of compensation prior to displacement and/or the
provision of relocation assistance to all Displaced Persons, as per the entitlements
provided in the RPF and/or the RAP(s).
In the event of any major alteration in the alignment of the Project as defined in the
Project Implementation Manual, the Borrower shall, prior to the issuance of the request
for proposal under the altered alignment, ensure that the respective EMP(s) and the
RAP(s) are updated pursuant to the provisions of the EMF and the RPF and approved by
the Bank.
-10-
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that each contract for civil works under the Project includes
the obligation of the relevant contractor to comply with the relevant Safeguard
Documents applicable to such civil works commissioned/awarded pursuant to said
contract.
5. 
The Borrower shall: (a) by no later than March 31 of each year, commencing on March
31, 2016, undertake annual reviews and prepare reports on the results obtained and
experiences gained in the implementation of the RPF and the RAP(s); (b) promptly
submit such report (within sixty (60) days of completion) to the Bank for review and
comments; and (c) thereafter implement any recommendations and/or update, as required,
the RPF and the RAP(s).
6. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the proceeds of the Loan are neither utilized to finance:
(a) any land acquisition; nor (b) any compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation
payment to Displaced Persons as per the RAP(s).
7. 
In the event of any conflict between a provision of any of the Safeguard Documents, on
the one hand, and those of this Agreement, on the other hand, the provisions of this
Agreement shall prevail.
G. 
Grievance Redress Mechanism
The Borrower shall maintain, throughout the period of implementation of the Project, a
two stage grievance redress committee at district level and headquarters, and an
ombudsman to handle/process any complaints arising out of the implementation of the
RPF and the RAPs, which institutions shall be granted the powers, functions, capacities
and resources appropriate to fulfill their functions.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reportine and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
I. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and
on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the
period of one (1) calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.
2. 
Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph I above, the Borrower shall, within thirty
(30) months of the Effective Date of this Agreement: (a) carry out a comprehensive mid-
term review assessment of the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project;
and (b) prepare and furnish to the Bank the conclusions thereof in a mid-term review
report in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
-ll-
3. 
The Borrower shall, by no later than one (1) year after commissioning the facilities
financed under the Project, provide to the Bank a final impact study of the Project,
conducted under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
4. 
The Borrower shall provide to the Bank no later than six (6) months after the Closing
Date, the report referred to in Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report after the
end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering
the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower, commencing with
the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal was made. The audited Financial Statements
for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than nine (9) months after
the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. 
All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to
the corresponding method described in Sections II and Ill of the Procurement Guidelines,
or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services
I. 
International Competitive Bidding. 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
-12-
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts
specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the
additional provisions set forth in the Procurement Plan; (b) Shopping; and (c) Direct
Contracting.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
I. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-
and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following methods,
other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of
consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan: (a)
Quality-based Selection; (b) Least Cost Selection; (c) Selection based on Consultants'
Qualifications; (d) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (e) Procedures set forth in
paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of Individual
Consultants; and (f) Single-source procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. For the
avoidance of doubts, the Bank shall be entitled to conduct, at any time, independent
procurement reviews of all the contracts financed under the Loan.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
Expenditures in each Category.
-13-
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
eentre 
ob
Cateory 
lloctedExpenditures 
to be
Category 
Allocated 
Financed
(expressed in USD) 
Fnne
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods and works (other than
those for signals,
telecommunications and/or
electrical works), non- 
509000000 
67%
consulting services,
consultants' services and
Training for Component A of
the Project
(2) Goods, works for signals,
telecommunications and all 
121,375,000 
50%
electrical works under
Component A of the Project
(3) Goods, non-consulting
services, consultants' services 
18,000,000 
100%
and Training for Component B
of the Project
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
(4) Front-end Fee 
1,625,000 
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of
the General Conditions
Amount due pursuant to
(5) Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
0 
Section 2.08(c) of this
Rate Collar premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
650,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate 
amount not to exceed one hundred million United States Dollars
(USD100,000,000) may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after
January 1, 2015, for Eligible Expenditures under Categories (1) and (3).
2. 
The Closing Date is November 30, 2021.
-14-
SCHEDULE3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning on November 15, 2022
through November 15, 2036 
3.33%
On May 15, 2037 
3.43%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
-15-
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-16-
APPENDIX
Section 1. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Borrower's Legal Framework" means DFCCIL's Memorandum and Articles of
Association, dated October 23, 2006, and/or India's Companies Act (2013), as the same
shall have been amended to the date of this Agreement.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
4. 
"Concession Agreement" means the agreement entered into by and between MOR and
DFCCIL on February 28, 2014, awarding DFCCIL the concession of the freight corridor
(to be) built under the Project; setting the objectives of that concession and the rights and
obligations of the parties in achieving those objectives; and ensuring DFCCIL efficient
and effective construction, operation and maintenance of the freight corridor.
5. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers"
dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
6. 
"Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India Limited" and the acronym "DFCCIL"
mean the Schedule A Central Public Sector Enterprise, fully owned by MOR, and
incorporated under the India's Companies Act (1956).
7. 
"Displaced Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of the Project, have
experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by: (a) the
involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets
or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not
such persons must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to
legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impact on the
livelihoods of such persons.
8. 
"Eastern DFC" means the Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor intended to connect the
Borrower's cities of Ludhiana and Kolkata, granted in concession to DFCCIL pursuant to
the Concession Agreement.
9. 
"Environmental Assessment(s)" and the acronym "EA(s)" mean the Borrower's: (a)
environmental impact assessment disclosed at the Bank's Infoshop on January 27, 2015
in respect of the Pilakhni-Sahnewal section of the Eastern DFC; as well as (b) the
environmental impact assessment(s) to be prepared pursuant to Section I.F.2 of Schedule
2 to this Agreement, in respect of the Khurja-Pilakhni section of the Eastern DFC; all of
them determining the likely positive and negative environmental impacts of Project
-17-
activities; as the same may be revised, updated or supplemented from time to time with
the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
10. 
"Environmental Management Framework" and the acronym "EMF" mean the Borrower's
framework, disclosed at the Bank's Infoshop on January 27, 2011, setting forth the
guiding principles, acceptable standard and procedures for: (a) the screening of Project
activities, and/or Linked Activities, and the identification of any adverse or positive
environmental impacts caused, or expected to be caused, on account of their
implementation; and, if needed, (b) the preparation of their prescribed environmental
impact assessments, and environmental management plans therefor; as such framework
may be revised, updated or supplemented from time to time with the prior written
concurrence of the Bank.
11. 
"Environmental Management Plan(s)" and the acronym "EMP(s)" mean the Borrower's:
(a) environmental management plan, jointly disclosed with the EA(s) at the Bank's
Infoshop on January 27, 2015 in respect of the Pilakhni-Sahnewal section of the Eastern
DFC, as well as; (b) the environmental management plan(s) to be prepared pursuant to
Section I.F.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, in respect of the Khuja-Pilakhni section
of the Eastern DFC; all of them setting forth mitigation, enhancement, monitoring and
institutional measures, including capacity building through training, required to: (i)
eliminate any adverse environmental impacts of activities to be implemented under the
Project; (ii) offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels; and/or (iii) enhance any
positive impacts thereof; as such plans may be revised, updated or supplemented from
time to time with the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
12. 
"General 
Conditions" 
means the "International 
Bank for Reconstruction 
and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
13. 
"Guarantee Agreement" means the agreement between the Guarantor and the Bank
relating to the prompt and timely payment of the Loan's interests, fees, charges and
amortization, as well as ensuring DFCCIL's implementation of the Project in accordance
with this Agreement, as such agreement may be amended from time to time. "Guarantee
Agreement" includes the General Conditions as applied to the Guarantee Agreement and
all supplemental letters thereto.
14. 
"Guarantor" means India.
15. 
"Khurja-Pilakhni" means the 226 km railroad track segment of the Eastern DFC
connecting the city of Khurja with the Pilakhni village, both in the Guarantor's State of
Uttar Pradesh.
16. 
"Linked Activities" means the over-bridges crossing the Eastern DFC, as well as any
other ancillary infrastructure and activities that are: (a) significantly or directly related to
the Project; (b) necessary to achieve the project development objectives; and (c) carried
out or planned to be carried out contemporaneously with the Project.
-18-
17. 
"Ludhiana-Khurja" and/or "EDFC 3" mean the 401 km railroad segment of the Eastern
DFC connecting the city of Ludhiana (Sanhewal) in the Guarantor's State of Punjab with
the city of Khurja in the Guarantor's State of Uttar Pradesh, which segment is comprised
of the Pilakhni-Sanhewal and the Pilakhni-Khura sections.
18. 
"MOR" means the Ministry of Railways of the Government of India.
19. 
"Pilakhni-Sahnewal" means the 175 km railroad track segment of the Eastern DFC
connecting the Pilakhni village in the Guarantor's state of Uttar Pradesh with the city of
Ludhiana (Sanhewal) in the Guarantor's State of Punjab.
20. 
"PMC" means the Project management consultant referred to in Section I.A.1(d) of the
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
21. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
22. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated May
14, 2015 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph
1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
23. 
"Project Implementation Manual" means the Borrower's manual, dated March 27, 2015,
which sets forth the procedures for Project implementation, including provisions related
to financial management, procurement, contract management, social and environmental
safeguards, governance and monitoring and evaluation; as such manual may be revised
from time to time with the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
24. 
"QSAC" means the quality and safety audit consultant referred to in Section I.A.1(c) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
25. 
"Resettlement Action Plan(s)" and the acronym "RAP(s)" mean the Borrower's:
(a) resettlement plan, disclosed at the Bank's Infoshop on January 27, 2015 in respect of
the Pilakhni-Sahnewal section of the Eastern DFC; as well as (b) the resettlement plan(s)
to be prepared pursuant to Section I.F.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, in respect of the
KhurJa-Pilakhni section of the Eastern DFC; all of which: (i) identify the Displaced
Persons on account of Project implementation; (ii) set forth the terms and conditions for
providing them with resettlement assistance and/or compensation, as well as the
Displaced Persons' entitlement schedule; (iii) detail the protocols for stakeholder
consultation, grievance redress mechanisms, and monitoring and reporting requirements;
and (iv) prescribe the procedures of the assessment, identification of Displaced Persons,
and mitigation of related social impacts arising from the carrying out of any Linked
Activities; as such plan may be revised, updated or supplemented, from time to time, with
the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
-19-
26. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" and the acronym "RPF" mean the Borrower's
framework, disclosed at the Bank's Infoshop on May 25, 2015, setting forth the guiding
principles, acceptable standards and procedures for: (a) the screening of Project activities,
and/or Linked Activities, and the identification of any Displaced Persons on account of
their implementation; and (b) the preparation of their prescribed resettlement action
plans; as such framework may be revised, updated or supplemented from time to time
with the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
27. 
"Safeguard Documents" means, collectively, the EMF, the EAs, the EMPs, the RPF, the
SIA and the RAPs.
28. 
"SESMRC" means the social and environmental safeguards monitoring and review
consultant referred to in Section I.A.1(c) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
29. 
"Social Impact Assessment" and the acronym "SIA" mean the Borrower's social impact
assessment(s) to be prepared pursuant to Section I.F.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
in respect of the Khurja-Pilakhni section of the Eastern DFC determining the likely social
impact of Project activities; as such assessment may be revised, updated or supplemented
from time to time with the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
30. 
"Track Access Agreement" means the agreements referred to in Section I.E of Schedule 2
to this Agreement, to be entered into by and between MOR and DFCCIL, as per the
Concession Agreement, prior to the commissioning of the Eastern DFC facilities, setting
forth the terms and conditions for access, utilization of the tracks of the freight corridor
awarded 
in concession to DFCCIL, payments therefor, and DFCCIL's service
performance standards.
31. 
"Training" means the reasonable costs of trainings, seminars, workshops, conferences
and study tours, conducted in India and/or overseas, and undertaken in accordance with
the annual training plan agreed with the Bank, including: (a) the fees of training
institutions and courses; (b) domestic and international travel costs, lodging costs, and
subsistence/per diem allowances both for trainers and trainees; (c) the rental of training
facilities; and (d) preparation, purchase or reproduction of training materials.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee: Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
-20-
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn
Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge").
The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-
annually in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition
of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section
3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition
of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), the Exposure
Surcharge (if any), any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or
early termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any
premium payable upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar,
and any Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting the words
"Commitment Charge and Exposure Surcharge (if any) are" after the word "interest".
