·" 
OFFICIAL L~ -~6~i, ~ 
DOCUMENTS 
LOAN NUMBER 8628-AR 
Loan Agreement 
(Flood Risk Management Support Project for 
the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires) 
between 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
and 
AUTONOMOUS CITY OF BUENOS AIRES 
Dated t\Jcwe<mb&' 1\0 
, 201~ 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
Agreement dated NQfflh={ f<D , 20 l(p between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") and AUTONOMOUS CITY OF 
BUENOS AIRES ("Borrower" or "Autonomous City of Buenos Aires"). The Bank and Borrower 
hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II -
LOAN 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred million Dollars (200,000,000), as such 
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the 
project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project"). 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance. 
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the 
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon a 
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable 
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains 
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) 
of the General Conditions. 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization 
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
'· 
2.08. 
(a) 
-2-
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest 
rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or 
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable 
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable 
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate 
based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the 
Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate. 
(b) 
·Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted 
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General 
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV 
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end, the 
Borrower, through MOF, shall carry out the Project, with the assistance of MUD for Parts 
l ( a), l ( d) and 2 of the Project, all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project 
is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that the 
Borrower, through MoF, has duly established the PCU in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance. 
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is: 
Rivadavia 524 
Autonomous City of Buenos Aires 
Argentine Republic 
Facsimile: 4323-9617 
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is: 
-3-
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 
248423(MCI) or 
64145(MCI) 
1-202-477-6391 
AGREED at &veaef> 1\-i,€.) 
7 
above written. 
, as of the day and year first 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
By 
Name: 
Title: 
AUTONOMOUS CITY 
By 
Name: 
Title: 
-4-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description 
The objective of the Project is to strengthen the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires to 
efficiently manage flood risk and improve the drainage systems in the Cildafiez Basin, Maldonado 
Basin and Vega Basin. 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part 1: Institutional Development for Flood Risk Management 
Support the creation of a modern and sustainable framework for flood risk management within the 
Borrower's territory, through: 
(a) 
Hydro-Meteorological Observation, Surveillance, and Alert System 
Design and implementation of an integrated hydro-meteorological observation, 
monitoring, alert, alarm and response system to increase the Borrower's severe 
weather forecasting capacity and to improve its flood preparedness and emergency 
management and recovery. 
(b) 
Flood Risk Financing and Protection Scheme 
Development of a strategy for flood risk financing and a program for the protection 
of homeowners and small and medium enterprises, including, inter alia: (i) the 
design of a probabilistic flood risk model; (ii) the construction of flood exposure 
data bases; (iii) the design of an advanced claims management system; (iv) the 
development of an innovative financial mechanism for risk transfer; and (v) the 
carrying out of a capacity building process aimed at the Borrower's officials and 
potential users of the financial mechanism for risk transfer mentioned in (iv) 
herein. 
(c) 
Flood Risk Social Communication and Education 
Carrying out of flood risk social communication and education activ1ties, 
including, inter alia: (i) the provision of Grants to Beneficiaries for the purpose of 
raising awareness on flood hazard within local communities; (ii) the design and 
imple'ft-i.entation of communication strategies for city dwellers to raise awareness 
on flood hazards; (iii) the carrying out of an education program on flood hazards, 
risks, vulnerability, and prevention for professionals in the education and 
construction sectors, and the provision of support to the Borrower to train 
communities in the poorest neighborhoods on emergency response; (iv) the 
provision of support to the Borrower to update the regulatory framework 
applicable to building activities in the Borrower's territory; and (v) the carrying 
out of an international workshop for the exchange of experiences and sharing of 
knowledge on flood risk management. 
-5-
(d) 
Capacity Building for Flood Risk Management 
Strengthening the Borrower's capacity for flood risk management, including 
support to the Flood Risk Management Inter-Ministerial Council; (ii) acquisition 
of equipment to increase the Borrower's capacity to respond and recover from 
flooding; and (iii) provision of technical assistance to design and disseminate 
participatory contingency plans. 
Part 2: Flood Mitigation Infrastructure 
(a) 
Cildafiez Basin 
Carrying out of investments in the Cildafi.ez Basin, including: (i) the carrying out 
of works to develop flood retention areas to delay flows to the Riachuelo River; 
(ii) the installation of networks to improve the water distribution and wastewater 
collection in low-income neighborhoods and informal settlements located in the 
Cildafi.ez Basin; (iii) the construction of drainage channels to improve the existing 
storm drainage infrastructure in the Cildafi.ez Basin by increasing its storage and 
flow capacity; and (iv) the carrying out of civil works to enhance the urban public 
space in the Cildafi.ez Basin. 
(b) 
Maldonado Basin 
Construction of approximately thirty-one (31) kilometers of secondary and tertiary 
drainage networks in the Maldonado Basin. 
(c) 
Vega Basin 
(i) Construction of: (A) a large drainage tunnel with an estimated length of eight 
point four (8.4) kilometers; and (B) approximately nine point eight (9.8) kilometers 
of secondary and tertiary drainage networks, all in the Vega Basin; and (ii) carrying 
out of the construction supervision for the works referred to in (i)(A) herein. 
Part 3: Project Management 
(a) 
Provision of support for the management of the Project, through the carrying out 
of Project audits and monitoring and evaluation activities, and the provision of 
technical assistance, Training and the financing of Operating Costs. 
(b) 
Development and implementation of a comprehensive baseline data collection and 
post Project data collection and analysis to support the monitoring and evaluation 
of Project's results and impact. 
-6-
SCHEDULE2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
The Borrower, through MoF, shall: 
(a) 
establish, and thereafter operate and maintain, at all times during Project 
implementation, a Project coordination unit (the PCU), with a structure, functions 
and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank as set forth in the Operational Manual, 
including, inter alia, the responsibility of the PCU to implement, monitor and 
supervise the carrying out of the Project; and 
(b) 
ensure that the PCU is, at all times during Project implementation, headed by a 
Project coordinator and assisted by professional staff (including, inter alia, a 
procurement specialist, a financial management specialist, a social specialist and 
an environmental specialist) and administrative staff, all in numbers and with terms 
ofreference, and qualifications and experience, acceptable to the Bank, as set forth 
in the Operational Manual. 
2. 
For purposes of assisting the Borrower in the carrying out of Parts 1 (a), 1 (d) and 2 of the 
Project, as provided in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower, through MUD, shall: 
(a) operate and maintain at all times during Project implementation a technical unit within 
MUD, with a structure, functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, as set forth 
in the Operational Manual; and (b) ensure that said technical unit is, at all times during 
Project implementation, headed and assisted by professional and administrative staff, in 
numbers and with terms of reference, and qualifications and experience, acceptable to the 
Bank, as set forth in the Operational Manual. 
B. 
Operational Manual 
1. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower, 
through MoF, and with the assistance of MUD, shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the provisions of a manual (the Operational Manual), acceptable to the Bank, which 
shall include, inter alia: (a) the procedures for the carrying out, monitoring and evaluation 
of the Project; (b) the organizational structure of the Project, including the functions and 
responsibilities of the PCU and the technical unit referred to in Section I.A.2 (a) of this 
Schedule; ( c) the Project procurement and financial management requirements and 
procedures; ( d) environmental guidelines for construction, including procedures to follow 
in case of unexpected cultural findings; ( e) the eligibility criteria for the selection of 
Beneficiaries; (t) the criteria for the approval, implementation and monitoring of the 
Grants; (g) the model Grant Agreement; (h) standard environmental provisions to be 
included in the bidding documents for investments to be carried out under the Project; (i) 
the Project's chart ofaccounts and internal controls; (j) the indicators to be used for Project 
monitoring and evaluation; and (k) the roles and responsibilities of MUD under the Project. 
-7-
2. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through MoF, shall not amend, 
terminate or waive the Operational Manual or any of its provisions. In case of any conflict 
among the terms of the Operational Manual and those of this Agreement, the terms of this 
Agreement shall prevail. 
C. 
Grants 
(a) 
For purposes of providing Grants under Part l(c)(i) of the Project, and prior to the 
carrying out of any activity under said Part of the Project, the Borrower, through 
MoF, shall: (i) select the pertinent Beneficiary in accordance with clear eligibility 
criteria acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the Operational Manual; and (ii) 
thereafter enter into an agreement with said Beneficiary (the "Grant Agreement") 
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, detailing, inter alia: (A) the Grant 
amount and the expenditures to be financed by said Grant; (B) the right of the 
Borrower, through MoF, to suspend or terminate the right of said Beneficiary to 
receive or use the proceeds of the Grant, and/or to obligate said Beneficiary to 
refund all or any part of the amount of the Grant then withdrawn, upon the 
Beneficiary's failure to perform any of its respective obligations under the relevant 
Grant Agreement; and (C) the obligation of the Beneficiary to carry out the 
pertinent raising awareness activity as referred to in said Part of the Project with 
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, economic, 
financial, managerial, environmental and social standards and practices 
satisfactory to the Bank, including compliance with the Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines, the Procurement Guidelines and the Consultant Guidelines, and the 
provisions set forth in Section E of this Schedule and in the Operational Manual, 
as applicable, and in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
(b) 
(i) The Borrower, through MoF, shall exercise its rights and carry out its 
obligations under each Grant Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests 
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and (ii) 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through MoF, shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Grant Agreement 
or any provision thereof. 
D. 
Anti-Corruption 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions 
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
E. 
Safeguards 
1. 
The Borrower, through MoF, and with the assistance of MUD for Parts 1 (a), 1 (d) and 2 
of the Project, shall implement the Project in accordance with the Environmental Impact 
Assessments (EIAs). 
-8-
2. 
Without limitation to paragraph 1 of this Section, and if as a result of the final design of 
any works under Part 2 of the Project, it is determined by the Bank that Resettlement will 
be involved, the Borrower, through MoF and with the assistance of MUD for Part 2 of the 
Project, shall: (a) prior to the carrying out of any said works, prepare and furnish to the 
Bank, a resettlement plan, acceptable to the Bank (which plan shall be consistent with the 
pertinent provisions of the Resettlement Policy Framework); and (b) immediately 
thereafter, implement said resettlement plan in accordance with its terms and in a manner 
acceptable to the Bank. 
3. 
The Borrower, through MoF, shall ensure that the terms ofreference for any consultancies 
related to the technical assistance provided under the Project, shall be acceptable to the 
Bank following its review thereof and, to that end, such terms of reference shall duly 
incorporate the requirement of the Bank's Safeguard Policies then in force, as applied to 
the advice conveyed through such technical assistance. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
A. 
Project Reports 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and 
on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the 
period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one month 
after the end of the period covered by such report. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five ( 45) days after the end of each calendar 
semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions 
of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall 
cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for 
each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of 
such period. 
-9-
Section III. 
Procurement 
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-consulting 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall 
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the 
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section. 
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to the 
corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The 
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for 
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in 
the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional 
provisions referred to in Section E below; (b) Shopping and; and ( c) Direct Contracting. 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality and 
Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following methods, other 
than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of consultants' 
services for those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based 
Selection; (b) Least Cost Selection; (c) Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications; (d) 
Single-source Selection of consulting firms; ( e) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5 .2 and 
5 .3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants; and ( t) Single-
source procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants. 
-10-
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's 
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
E. 
Special Provisions 
Without limitation to the other provisions in Section III.A of this Schedule, the following 
additional provisions shall also govern the procurement of goods, works, non-consulting 
services and consultants' services under the Project (as the case may be): 
(a) 
Procurement of goods, works, non-consulting services and consultants' services 
(in respect of firms) shall be carried out using: (i) (A) standard bidding documents 
(which bidding documents in respect of works shall include, if applicable, a 
provision whereby the pertinent contractor must comply with the pertinent 
provisions of the environmental and social management plan included in the 
corresponding EIA; (B) if applicable, the Resettlement Policy Framework and the 
pertinent 
resettlement 
action 
plan; 
and 
(C) 
standard 
requests 
for 
quotations/proposals (as the case may be), all acceptable to the Bank, which shall 
all include, inter alia, a settlement of dispute provision and the pertinent provisions 
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines; (ii) model bid evaluation forms, and model 
quotations/proposals evaluation forms (as the case may be); and (iii) model 
contract forms, all acceptable to the Bank. 
(b) 
All contracts for works to be procured under the Project shall contain a 
methodology, acceptable to the Bank, whereby the price of each said contracts 
shall be adjusted through the use of price adjustment formulas, in a manner 
acceptable to the Bank. 
( c) 
A two-envelope bidding procedure shall not be allowed in the procurement of 
goods, works and non-consulting services. 
( d) 
After the public opening of bids for goods, works and non-consulting services, 
information relating to the examination, clarification and evaluation of bids and 
recommendations concerning awards, shall not be disclosed to bidders or other 
persons not officially concerned with this process until the publication of contract 
award. In addition, bidders and/or other persons not officially concerned with said 
process shall not be allowed to review or make copies of other bidders' bids. 
(e) 
After the public opening of consultants' proposals, information related to the 
examination, clarification and evaluation of proposals and recommendations 
concerning awards, shall not be disclosed to consultants or other persons not 
officially concerned with this process until the publication of contract award 
(except as provided in paragraphs 2.23 and 2.30 of the Consultants Guidelines). In 
addition, consultants and/or other persons not officially concerned with said 
-11-
process shall not be allowed to review or make copies of other consultants' 
proposals. 
(f) 
Foreign bidders or foreign consultants shall not, as a condition for submitting bids 
or proposals and/or for contract award: (i) be required to be registered in the 
Guarantor's territory ( except as provided in the standard bidding documents 
referred to in paragraph (a) above); (ii) be required to have a representative in the 
Guarantor's territory; and (iii) be required to be associated or subcontracted with 
Argentine suppliers, contractors or consultants. 
(g) 
The invitations to bid, bidding documents, minutes of bid openings, requests for 
expressions of interest and the pertinent summary of the evaluation reports of bids 
and proposals of all goods, works, non-consulting services and consultants' 
services procured by the Borrower, through MoF, shall be published in the web 
page acceptable to the Bank and in a manner acceptable to the Bank. The bidding 
period shall be counted from the date of publication of the invitation to bid or the 
date of the availability of the bidding documents, whichever is later, to the date of 
bid opening. 
(h) 
Provisions set forth in paragraphs 2.49, 2.50, 2.52, 2.53, 2.54 and 2.59 of the 
Procurement Guidelines shall also be applicable to contracts for goods, works and 
non-consulting services to be procured under National Competitive Bidding 
procedures. 
(i) 
References to bidders in one or more specialized magazines shall not be used by 
the Borrower, through MoF, in determining if the bidder in respect of goods whose 
bid has been determined to be the lowest evaluated bid has the capability and 
resources to effectively carry out the contract as offered in the bid, as referred to 
in the provision set forth in paragraph 2.58 of the Procurement Guidelines. The 
provision set forth in paragraph 2.58 of the Procurement Guidelines (including the 
limitation set forth herein) shall also be applicable to contracts for goods to be 
procured under National Competitive Bidding procedures. 
(i) 
Witness prices shall not be used as a parameter for bid evaluation, bid rejection or 
contract award. 
(k) 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Guarantor in respect of contracts for goods to 
be procured under International Competitive Bidding procedures. 
(1) 
Compliance by bidders with the norms issued by ISO with respect to any given 
good procured under the Project shall not be used as parameter for contract award; 
(m) 
Consultants shall not be required to submit bid or performance securities. 
(n) 
Contracts of goods, works and non-consulting services shall not be awarded to the 
"most convenient" bid, but rather to the bidder whose bid has been determined: (i) 
-12-
to be substantially responsive; and (ii) to offer the lowest evaluated bid, provided 
that said bidder has demonstrated to the Borrower, through MoF, to be qualified to 
perform the contract satisfactorily. 
(o) 
The types of contracts described in Section IV of the Consultant Guidelines shall 
be the only types of contracts to be used by the Borrower, through MoF, in 
connection with the contracting of consultants' services provided by a firm and to 
be financed with the proceeds of the Loan. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
A. 
General 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank Disbursement 
Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as 
made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to 
each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures 
in each Category. 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures 
Allocated 
to be financed 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
( 1) Goods, works, non-consulting 
13,500,000 
100% 
services, consultants' services, 
Grants, Training and/or Operating 
Costs under Parts 1 (b ), 1 ( c ), 1 ( d) 
and 3 of the Project 
(2) Works, non-consulting services 
186,000,000 
100% until withdrawals under 
and consultants' services under 
this Category have reached an 
Part 2 of the Project 
aggregate amount of 
$150,000,000 and 30% 
thereafter 
-13-
Amount payable pursuant to 
(3) Front-end Fee 
500,000 
Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
200,000,000 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for 
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $40,000,000 may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or 
after September 30, 2015 (but in no case more than 12 months before the date of this Agreement), 
for Eligible Expenditures. 
2. 
The Closing Date is March 1, 2022. 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings 
The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of the Bank, exchange views on 
Expenses, Revenues, Primary Fiscal Balance, Overall Fiscal Balance, Domestic Public Debt and 
External Public Debt, all as of the date of any such review. Prior to such exchange of views, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for its review, a report, in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested. 
-14-
SCHEDULE3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage 
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date 
("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: 
(a) 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment 
Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, 
to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentaee) 
On each April 15 and October 15 
Beginning on October 15, 2023 
through October 15, 2037 
3.33% 
On April 15, 2038 
3.43% 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment 
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal 
Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
3. 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as 
of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original 
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts 
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding 
-15-
on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall 
be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on 
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency, 
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal 
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the 
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the 
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating 
to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan 
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
-16-
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud 
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated 
October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011. 
2. 
"Bank Safeguard Policies" means the Bank's operational policies and procedures set forth 
in the Bank's Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04. 4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 
4.37, 7.50 and 7.60 as said manual is published under www.WorldBank.org/opmanual. 
3. 
"Basins" means the Cildafiez Basin, the Maldonado Basin or the Vega Basin. 
4. 
"Beneficiary" means a non-governmental organization (vested with legal personality), 
which meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual to receive a Grant. 
5. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
6. 
"Cildafiez Basin" means the portion of the hydrographic basin of the Cildafiez Stream 
located within the territorial jurisdiction of the Borrower. 
7. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants 
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January 
2011 (revised July 2014). 
8. 
"Domestic Public Debt" means any debt incurred by the Borrower which is or may become 
payable in the currency of the Guarantor. 
9. 
"Environmental Impact Assessments" or "EIAs" means the following Borrower's 
environmental and social assessments, including their respective environmental and social 
management plans, which describe the Borrower's actions to be undertaken, or cause to be 
undertaken, in order to address any adverse environmental or social impact resulting from 
the carrying out of the works under the Project, as said documents may be amended from 
time to time with the agreement of the Bank: (a) Estudio de lmpacto Ambiental de las 
Obras de Sanemiento e lntegraci6n Urbana a Ser Deasarrolladas en el Area de lnfluencia 
def Lago Soldati y Parque Jndoamericano - Ciudad de Buenos Aires, dated August 2015 
and published by the Borrower on September 14, 2015 and in the Bank's external website 
on May 27, 2016; (b) Estudio de Evaluaci6n de lmpacto Ambiental Obra Ramales 
Secundarios y Terciarios para la Cuenca de! Arroyo Maldonado e lnforme Tecnico de 
lmpacto Ambiental - Jnforme Complementario Obra Ramales Secundarios y Terciarios 
para la Cuenca de! Arroyo Maldonado, dated April 2014 and published by the Borrower 
on August 8, 2014 and in the Bank's external website on September 4, 2014; and (c) 
Estudio de lmpacto Ambiental para la Fase de Construcci6n y Operaci6n de las Obras 
Hidraulicas para la Cuenca de! Arroyo Vega, dated April 2014 and published by the 
Borrower on August 8, 2014 and in the Bank's external website on September 4, 2014. 
-17-
10. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in 
Section II of this Appendix. 
11. 
"Expenses" means cash payments for the Borrower's operating activities in providing 
goods and services, including compensation of the Borrower's employees (such as wages 
and salaries), interest and subsidies, grants, social benefits, and other expenses such as 
payments for rent and dividends. 
12. 
"External Public Debt" means any debt incurred by the Borrower which is or may become 
payable in a currency other than the currency of the Guarantor. 
13. 
"Flood Risk Management Inter-Ministerial Council" means Consejo para la Gesti6n de! 
Riesgo de lnundaciones, established pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 287 /GCABA/ 
2016, dated May 3, 2016 and published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on May 5, 2016 
and the Borrower's Resolution No. 201/JGMGC/2016, dated May 5, 2016 and published 
in the Borrower's Official Gazette on May 10, 2016. 
14. 
"Grant" means a grant made, or to be made, to a Beneficiary out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, under terms and conditions set forth in the Operational Manual, to partially finance 
consultants' services, Non-Consulting Services and/or Training required for the carrying 
out of the activities referred to in Part 1 (c)(i) of the Project. 
15. 
"Grant Agreement" means any agreement referred to in Section I.C.(a)(ii) of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
16. 
"ISO" means International Organization for Standardization, an international-standard-
setting body composed of representatives from various national standards organizations 
which issues world-wide proprietary industrial and commercial standards for products. 
17. 
"Maldonado Basin" means the portion of the hydrographic basin of the Maldonado Stream 
located within the territorial jurisdiction of the Borrower. 
18. 
"MoF" means Ministerio de Hacienda, the Borrower's Ministry of Finance. 
19. 
"MUD" means Ministerio de Desarrollo Urbano y Transporte, the Borrower's Ministry of 
Urban Development. 
20. 
"Operating Costs" means reasonable incremental recurrent expenditures that would not 
have been incurred by the Borrower absent the Project, for Project administration costs 
(including office rent), operation and maintenance of office equipment, banking fees, non-
durable goods and salaries of civil servants assigned to carry out administrative 
responsibilities under the Project. 
21. 
"Operational Manual" means the manual referred to in Section LB. I of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, as said manual may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the 
Bank. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
-18-
"Overall Fiscal Balance" means the total Revenues minus Expenses on a given fiscal year 
of the Borrower. 
"PCU" means MoF's unit referred to in Section I.A.I (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank. 
"Primary Fiscal Balance" means Overall Fiscal Balance plus any interest paid or to be paid 
by the Borrower on Domestic Public Debt and External Public Debt, on any given fiscal 
year of the Borrower. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and 
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank 
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014). 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated April 
19, 2016 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 
1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in 
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
"Resettlement" means the impact of an involuntary taking of land under the Project, which 
taking causes affected persons to have their: (i) standard of living adversely affected; or 
(ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and grazing 
land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or 
permanently; or (iii) access to productive assets adversely affected, temporarily or 
permanently; or (iv) business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely 
affected, temporarily or permanently. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" means the Borrower's framework dated July 2014, and 
published by the Borrower on August 6, 2014 and in the Bank's external website on August 
27, 2014, specifying the Resettlement policies, planning principles, institutional 
arrangements, procurement arrangements and design criteria that shall apply to the 
preparation and carrying out of the action plans for Resettlement under the Project. 
"Revenues" means the Borrower's cash receipts from taxes, social contributions, and other 
revenues such as fines, fees, rent, and income from property or sales. 
"Riachuelo River" means the Riachuelo river (a tributary of the Rio de la Plata) which runs 
through the Borrower's southern border with the Province of Buenos Aires and discharges 
into the Rio de la Plata. 
"Training" means expenditures (other than those for consultant's services) incurred by the 
Borrower, through MoF and/or MUD, all as approved by the Bank on the basis of an annual 
budget acceptable to the Bank, to finance reasonable transportation costs and per-diem of 
trainees and trainers (if applicable), training registration fees, trainers fees and rental of 
training facilities and equipment under the Project. 
-19-
32. 
"Vega Basin" means the hydrographic basin of the Vega Stream located within the 
territorial jurisdiction of the Borrower. 
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows: 
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers 
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below. 
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows: 
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge 
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate 
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee"). 
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan 
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The 
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan 
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually 
in arrears on each Payment Date." 
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs 
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above. 
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition 
of"Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly: 
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan 
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.0l(b)." 
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition 
of"Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01 
(a). 
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 ( originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition 
of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows: 
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank 
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited 
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the 
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment 
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the 
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of 
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the 
.. 
\ 
.. 
-20-
Borrower." 
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the definition 
of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and 
Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest". 
