LOAN NUMBER 8552-BO
Loan Agreement
(Road Sector Capacity Development Project)
between
PLURINATIONAL STATE OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated --
6- 
-
4
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
17A-W 9 
, 2014 between PLURINATIONAL STATE OF
BOLIVIA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred sixty five million nine hundred fifty
thousand Dollars (USD165,950,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e)
of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
-2-
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest
rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the
Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Administradora Boliviana de
Carreteras (ABC) in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions
and the ABC Subsidiary Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project
is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
ABC shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations under the ABC
Subsidiary Agreement.
(b) 
ABC's Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived
so as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of
ABC to perform any of its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that any of the
events specified in Section 4.01 (a) and (b) of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for
a period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The ABC Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and
ABC.
(b) 
The Operational Manual has been adopted by ABC in a manner acceptable to the
Bank.
(c) 
The Financing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all conditions
precedent to its effectiveness (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement) have
been fulfilled.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the ABC Subsidiary
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and ABC and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and ABC in accordance with its terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred fifty (150) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Development Planning.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministerio de Planificaci6n del Desarrollo
Avenida Mariscal Santa Cruz 1092
Edificio Ex-Comibol
La Paz, Bolivia
Facsimile: 
+591-2-5.03
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREEDE -
-- - --- 
--- 
A 
,------- 
as of the day and year first above written.
PLURINATIONAL STATE 
OLIVIA
By
Aut 
d Representative
Name:
Rena Gonzalo Orellana Halkyer
Title: 
MINISTRO DE PLANIFICACIbN
DEL DESARROLLO
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By 
y__
Authorized Representative
Name: 
Ao F_0 
__\_ 
R_tL 
A
Title: 
igur
4
p; 
TicyiT
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to enhance the Borrower's national road sector
management and improve the condition of the Borrower's primary paved road network targeted
under the Project.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A. Capacity Development
A. 1. 
Provision of financing of payments under the Eligible Expenditure Program (EEP) to
support the institutional strengthening of ABC by: (a) designing and implementing an integrated
financial management information system, including providing Training required therefor; (b)
updating and adopting ABC's Socio-environmental Manual, including providing Training required
therefor; and (c) installing, updating and implementing a pavement management system; all in
accordance with the provisions set forth in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
A.2. 
Provision of support to ABC for, inter alia: (a) strengthening ABC's contract management
and supervision, including through the provision of Training; (b) (i) carrying out and disseminating
a road safety capacity assessment of ABC; and (ii) carrying out minor road safety improvements
on the Borrower's primary paved road network; (c) strengthening ABC's capacity for road asset
management 
and management of Performance-Based Contracts; (d) carrying out activities to
strengthen climate risk mitigation; (e) designing and implementing a training program on skills
enhancement for Road Maintenance Microenterprises; (f) carrying out a comprehensive review of
ABC's internal procurement processes; and (g) administering, implementing and monitoring the
Project, including the carrying out of the Project audits, the strengthning of ABC's grievance
redress mechanism, and the provision of Operating Costs.
Part B. Road Contracting for Paved Primary Network
Provision of support to ABC for, inter alia:
B. 1. 
Preparing the bidding documents for the rehabilitation and maintenance works contracts to
be financed under Part B.2 below through, inter alia: (a) the provision of transactional advice and
validation of design and costs for said works; and (b) the carrying out of awareness campaigns of
the potential effects of using Performance-Based Contracts.
B.2. 
Rehabilitating and maintaining approximately 567 kilometers of the Borrower's primary
paved road network, in Selected Departments, including providing support for the monitoring and
evaluation of said rehabilitation and maintenance works.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
The Borrower shall cause ABC to:
1. 
Assign responsibility internally for the management, implementation, monitoring and
reporting of the Project among its central and regional offices, as described in detail in the
Operational Manual;
2. 
operate and maintain throughout Project implementation within ABC, its technical and
administrative units, with qualified staff in sufficient numbers (including as may be needed,
specialists in, inter alia, financial management and procurement), adequate funds,
facilities, services and other resources for Project implementation, all acceptable to the
Bank;
3. 
(a) carry out the Project in accordance with the requirements set forth in a manual
acceptable to the Bank (Operational Manual or OM); and (b) not to assign, amend,
abrogate, or waive the OM or any of its provisions, except with the prior written approval
of the Bank. 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the OM and those of this
Agreement, the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall prevail; and
4. 
operate and maintain, throughout Project implementation, an accessible grievance redress
mechanism, acceptable to the Bank, to address grievances relating to the carrying out of
the civil works under Part B.2 of the Project.
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project by ABC, the Borrower shall make the proceeds
of the Loan available, on a grant basis, to ABC under an agreement (ABC Subsidiary
Agreement) to be entered between the Borrower and ABC, under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank, among which, inter alia, the obligation of ABC to: (a) carry out
the Project in accordance with the provisions set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the
Operational Manual and the Anti-corruption Guidelines; and (b) take or permit to be taken
all actions to enable the Borrower to comply with its obligations referred to in this
Agreement in respect to ABC.
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the ABC
Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce
the ABC Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions.
-7-
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall, and shall cause ABC to, ensure that the Project is carried out in
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall cause ABC to carry out the Project in accordance with the
Environmental Management Framework (EMF), the Resettlement Policy Framework
(RPF) and the Indigenous Peoples Plan (IPP). Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall cause ABC to not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the EMF, the RPF
and the IPP, or any of their provisions.
2. 
Without limitation to the provisions set forth in paragraph I above, for the purposes
of carrying out any works under Part B.2 of the Project the Borrower shall cause ABC to:
(a) 
when Involuntary Resettlement is required for carrying out any Project activities:
(i) prepare and disclose, prior to commencement of any works Site-specific RAPs,
each and all acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with the RPF; and (ii)
immediately thereafter, carry out the works in accordance with the provisions of
said Site-specific RAPs and in a manner acceptable to the Bank, including full
payment of compensation and/or the provision of relocation to all Displaced
Persons prior to any displacement; and
(b) 
maintain a grievance redress mechanism acceptable to the Bank so as to enable an
adequate monitoring of the issues related to the implementation of any Site-
specific RAP arising as a result of the Project activities.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause ABC to ensure that the terms of reference for any consultants'
services related to the technical assistance provided under the Project, shall be satisfactory
to the Bank and, to that end, such terms of reference shall require that the advice conveyed
through such technical assistance be consistent with the requirements of the Bank's policies
and procedures.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports and Mid-term Review
1 .
The Borrower: (a) shall and shall cause ABC to, monitor and evaluate the progress of the
Project; and (b) shall cause ABC to prepare Project Reports in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators
acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the Operational Manual. Each Project Report shall
cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than
one month after the end of the period covered by such report.
-8-
2. 
By June 30, 2018 or such other date as the Bank shall agree upon, the Borrower shall carry
out jointly with the Bank, a mid-term review of the implementation of the activities under
the Project (Mid-term Review). The Mid-term Review shall cover the progress achieved in
the implementation of the Project. Following such Mid-term Review, the Borrower shall
act promptly and diligently to take any corrective action as shall have been agreed with the
Bank.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1 .
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall cause
ABC to prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than thirty (30) days after the end of each
calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the semester,
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause ABC to have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with
the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial
Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months
after the end of such period.
C. 
Other Undertakings
In implementing Part B.2 of the Project, if applicable, as determined by the Bank, the
Borrower shall cause ABC to: (a) prepare and furnish to the Bank, an independent technical
audit (Technical Audit) in form and substance acceptable to the Bank which shall include,
inter alia: (1) a description of all the findings and results; (2) a list of proposed measures
and actions to be taken to resolve the issues identified under (1) above; and (3) a proposed
timeline for the implementation of said measures and actions; (b) afford the Bank a
reasonable opportunity to exchange views on such Technical Audit; and (c) thereafter
implement such recommended measures, taking into account the Bank's views on the
matter.
Section HI. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1 .
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section and Section I of Annex A
to this Schedule.
-9-
2. 
Consultants' Services. 
All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section and Section II of Annex A to this Schedule.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to the
corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the Procurement Guidelines, or
Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services
I. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts specified
in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional
provisions set forth in Section I of Annex A to this Schedule; (b) Shopping; and (c) Direct
Contracting.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality and
Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following methods, other
than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of consultants'
services for those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based
Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; (d) Selection based
on Consultants' Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f)
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the
Selection of Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
-10-
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank Disbursement
Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as
made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures
in each Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Payments for EEP under 
0 
100% of the Loan amount
Part A.1 of the Project 
allocated for each DLI as set
forth in the table in Schedule
4
(2) Goods, non-consulting 
0 
100%
services, consultants'
services, Training and
Operating Costs for Part A.2
of the Project
(3) Goods, works, non- 
165,535,125 
100%
consulting services,
consultants' services,
Training and Operating Costs
under Part B of the Project
(4) Front-end Fee 
414,875 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
165,950,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed USD20,000,000 may be made for payments made prior to
-11-
this date but on or after the date twelve (12) months prior to the date of this Agreement, for
Eligible Expenditures under Category (3).
2. 
Without limitation to the provisions set forth in paragraph I above, withdrawals from the
Loan Account in respect of Category (1) shall be made upon submission to the Bank of
evidence, acceptable to the Bank, with respect to: (a) the achievement of the respective
Disbursement-Linked Indicator (DLI) as referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (b)
the expenditures incurred under the EEP during the period of twelve (12) months prior to
the date of the withdrawal request for the respective DLI. If the total amount of the
expenditures incurred during this period is less than the Loan amount allocated to the
respective DLI, the Bank, may, at its sole discretion: (a) disburse the unwithdrawan portion
of the Loan allocated to the respective DLI at a later date provided that the evidence of
additional expenditures under the EEP incurred in relation to the respective DLI has been
furnished to the Bank; (b) reallocate said amount to another DLI; or (c) cancel said amount.
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2 above, if the Bank is not satisfied that any
of the DLIs has been achieved in the year in which said DLI is set to be achieved, the Bank
may, at any time, by notice to the Borrower, decide, in its sole discretion, to: (a) when
satisfied that said DLI has been complied with, authorize the withdrawal of the proceeds
of the Loan allocated to said DLI at a later date; or (b) cancel the proceeds of the Loan.
4. 
The Bank and the Borrower may agree from time to time, by exchange of letters, to modify
the DLIs, corresponding amounts or respective dates for the DLIs set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
5. 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Designated Account was
made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall promptly upon notice from the Bank,
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into the Designated
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the
Bank into the Designated Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
additional evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
6. 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraph 5 above shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation, as determined by the Bank, in
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
7. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2022.
-12-
Annex A
to
SCHEDULE 2
Additional Provisions Relating to
Particular Methods of Procurement
Section I. 
Goods, Works and Non-Consulting Services
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement or the
Procurement Guidelines, the following additional provisions shall apply to all goods, works and
non-consulting services procured for the Project and awarded on the basis of National Competitive
Bidding procedures (Proceso de Licitaci6n Abierta) set forth in the Borrower's Supreme Decree
No. 181, dated June 28, 2009 (Normas Bdsicas del Sistema de Administraci6n de Bienes y
Servicios), as amended through Supreme Decree No. 1497, dated February 20, 2013:
1. 
A merit point system shall not be used in the pre-qualification of bidders.
2. 
The award of contracts for goods, works and non-consulting services shall be based
exclusively on price and, whenever appropriate, shall also take into account factors similar
to those referred to in paragraph 2.52 of the Procurement Guidelines, provided, however,
that the bid evaluation shall always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively,
and the procedure for such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid.
3. 
All bids shall be opened at the stipulated time and place in accordance with a procedure
acceptable to the Association.
4. 
The single envelope procedure shall be used.
5. 
Whenever a discrepancy shall occur between the amounts in figures and the amounts in
words of a bid, the amounts in words shall govern. No bid shall be rejected due to arithmetic
errors.
6. 
No prescribed minimum number of bids shall be required to be submitted for a contract to
be subsequently awarded.
7. 
Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate.
8. 
Foreign bidders shall not be required to legalize any documentation related to their bids
with the Borrower's authorities as a prerequisite for bidding.
9. 
Bidders shall not be required, as condition for submitting their bids, to be registered in the
Borrower's Registro Unico de Proveedores del Estado (RUPE).
10. 
No margin of preference shall be granted for any particular category of bidders.
-13-
11. 
In the event that a bidder whose bid was evaluated as the bid with the lowest evaluated
price withdraws its bid, the contract may be awarded to the second lowest responsive
evaluated bid.
12. 
Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting bids, be required to enter into a
joint venture agreement with local bidders.
13. 
No procurement rules or regulations of neither of the Borrower's agencies, nor of any state-
owned entity shall apply without the prior review and consent of the Bank.
14. 
Borrower state-owned enterprises shall be allowed to participate in bids only upon their
compliance with the provisions of paragraph 1.10 (b) of the Procurement Guidelines.
15. 
No contractor or supplier shall be denied fair and equitable treatment in any resolution of
dispute with the Borrower and/or any of its implementing entities.
16. 
No reference value shall be required for publication in the bidding documents or used for
the purpose of evaluation.
17. 
Bidding documents for NCB shall include anticorruption clauses that shall be substantially
identical to those pertaining to the Bank Standard Bidding Documents for ICB.
Section H. 
Selection of Consultant Services
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement or the
Consultant Guidelines, the following additional provisions shall apply to all consultants' services
procured for the Project:
1. 
Consultants shall not be required, as condition for participating in the selection process, to
be registered in the Registro Unico de Proveedores del Estado (RUPE).
2. 
Foreign consultants shall not be required, as a condition for participating in the selection
process, to enter into ajoint venture agreement with local consultants, unless the conditions
stated in paragraph 1.15 of the Consultant Guidelines are met.
3. 
Foreign consultants shall not be required, as a condition for participating in the selection
process, to legalize their proposals or any documentation related to such proposals with the
Borrower's authorities.
4. 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be registered in the Borrower's National
Registry of Consultants (Registro Nacional de Consultoria).
5. 
Consultants, either firms or individuals, shall not be required to present performance
securities as a condition to present proposals and sign an awarded contract.
-14-
6. 
Consultants, either firms or individuals, shall not be denied fair and equitable treatment in
any dispute resolution with the Borrower and/or any of its implementing entities.
7. 
Consultants, either firms or individuals, shall not be required to sign consultant services'
contracts containing a retention amount fee clause.
8. 
Borrower state-owned enterprises shall be allowed to participate in the selection process
only upon their compliance with the provisions of paragraph 1.13 (b) of the Consultant
Guidelines.
9. 
The Request for Proposals shall include anti-corruption clauses that shall be identical to
those pertaining to the Bank's Request for Proposals.
-15-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on July 15, 2035.
-16-
SCHEDULE 4
Disbursement Linked Indicators
The DLIs and corresponding amounts may be adjusted from time to time by the Bank and the
Borrower, based on the review pursuant to Section IV.B.4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Disbursement Linked 
Disbursement Linked 
Amount of Loan Allocated
Indicator Description 
Indicator 
(expressed in USD)
(1) First DLI: 
DLI#1.1: 
DLI#1.1:
ABC has approved the design 
USD 500,000
Implementation of an 
of an integrated financial
integrated financial 
management information
management information 
system based on revised
system in ABC 
operational procedures,
acceptable to the Bank, in
Year 2
DLI#1.2: 
DLI#1.2:
ABC has installed and 
USD 1,500,000
operationalized the approved
integrated financial
management information
system in ABC's central
office and in at least five (5)
of its regional offices, in a
manner acceptable to the
Bank, in Year 3
DLI#1.3: 
DLI#1.3:
At least 75% of ABC 
USD 500,000
technical staff with
responsibilities related to
operational tasks in ABC's
central office and in five (5)
of its regional offices, have
been trained on the revised
operational procedures and
the integrated financial
management information
system, under terms of
reference acceptable to the
Bank, in Year 4
-17-
(2) Second DLI:
Strengthening ABC's 
DLI#2. 1: ABC's Social- 
DLI# 2.1:
environmental and social 
environmental Manual has 
USD 400,000
management capacity on road 
been: (a) updated to include
works 
guidelines for addressing
Involuntary Resettlement in
the right-of-way of roads, on
terms acceptable to the Bank;
and (b) thereafter approved in
a manner acceptable to the
Bank; all in Year 3
DLI#2.2: ABC's Socio- 
DLI#2.2:
environmental Manual has 
USD 400,000
been: (a) updated to include
criteria to assess collective
vulnerability of indigenous
peoples' cultures, on terms
acceptable to the Bank; and
(b) thereafter approved, in a
manner acceptable to the
Bank; all in Year 3
DLI#2.3: All ABC social and 
DLI#2.3:
environmental staff and at 
USD 200,000
least 75% of ABC technical
staff with responsibilities
related to works supervision,
have been trained on the
description of the features of
the updated ABC's Socio-
environmental Manual ; and
at least one (1) workshop has
been organized with private
sector contractors and
consultants, on terms and in a
manner acceptable to the
Bank, in Year 4
(3) Second DLI: 
DLI# 3.1: (a) a pavement 
DLI# 3.1:
management system has been 
USD 1,000,000
Development of a 
installed in ABC and
rehabilitation planning 
populated with information
on the road condition of at
-18-
strategy for the Borrower's 
least 50% of the Borrower's
primary paved road network 
primary paved road network;
and (b) at least three (3)
ABC's technical staff have
received training on the use of
the pavement management
system, all on terms and in a
manner acceptable to the
Bank and in Year 3
DLI#3.2: the installed 
DLI# 3.2:
pavement management 
USD 300,000
system in ABC is operative,
in Year 4
DLI#3.3: (a) the installed and 
DLI# 3.3:
operative pavement 
USD 200,000
management system in ABC
has been fed with information
on the road condition of at
least 90% of the Borrower's
primary paved road network;
and (b) 20% of the
information fed in the
pavement management
system under DLI 4.1 (a) has
been updated; all on terms
and in a manner acceptable to
the Bank and in Year 5
-19-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"ABC' Legislation" means the Borrower's Law No. 3507 dated October 27, 2006 and
Supreme Decree No. 28946, dated November 25, 2006.
2. 
"ABC's Socio-environmental Manual" means ABC's Manual Ambiental de Carreteras
dated November 2008.
3. 
"ABC Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of Schedule
2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall transfer the proceeds of the Loan
to ABC for the carrying out of the Project.
4. 
"Administradora Boliviana de Carreteras" or "ABC" means the Borrower's entity
responsible for the administration and management of the Recipient's primary road
network, created through Law No. 3507 of October 27, 2006, or any legal successor
thereto.
5. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated
October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
6. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
7. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January
2011 (revised July 2014).
8. 
"DBMOT" means Design-Build-Maintain- Operate- Transfer.
9. 
"Disbursement Linked Indicator" or "DLI" means in respect of Category (1), each of the
indicators related to said Category as set forth in the table in Schedule 4 to this Agreement,
on the basis of the achievement of which, the amount of the Loan allocated to said result
may be withdrawn in accordance with the provisions of Section IV.B of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
10. 
"Displaced Person" means a person who, on account of the execution of the Project, has
experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by: (i) the
involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (a) relocation or loss of shelter; (b) loss of assets
or access to assets; or (c) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not
such person must move to another location; or (ii) the involuntary restriction to access to
legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood
of such person, and "Displaced Persons" means, collectively, the plural thereof.
-20-
11. 
"Eligible Expenditure Program" or "EEP" means a set of defined expenditures within
ABC's budget including employee's salaries, social insurance and other mandatory
contributions for the ABC's staff incurred by ABC for carrying out the activities under the
Project.
12. 
"EMF" or "Environmental Management Framework" means the Borrower's framework
acceptable to the World Bank and published on September 10, 2015, which contains, inter
alia the environmental protection measures in respect of the Project, including: (a) measures
for chance findings of physical cultural property; (b) protection of natural habitats and pest
management; (c) guidelines for the identification of existing environmental conditions and
potential direct and indirect environmental impacts resulting from the carrying out of the
Project; (d) 
guidelines for the carrying out of environmental assessments and the
preparation 
of 
environmental 
management 
plans, when 
applicable; 
(e) 
the
recommendation of mitigation measures for each negative impact identified; and (f)
measures for enhancing each identified positive impacts; as may be amended from time to
time with the Bank's prior approval.
13. 
"Financing Agreement" means the agreement between the Borrower and the Association
for the Project, of the same date as this Agreement, as such agreement may be amended
from time to time. 
"Financing Agreement" includes all appendices, schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Financing Agreement.
14. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
15. 
"Indigenous People Plan" or "IPP" means the Borrower's indigenous peoples plan,
acceptable to the Bank, and published on September 10, 2015, which contains, inter alia:
(a) a framework for ensuring free, prior and informed consultation with the affected
indigenous peoples' communities during Project implementation; (b) an action plan of
measures to ensure that the indigenous peoples' communities benefit from the Project in a
manner that is culturally appropriate, including, when necessary, through the provision of
Training; (c) accessible procedures to address grievances by the indigenous peoples'
communities arising from Project implementation; and (d) a mechanism and benchmarks
for monitoring, evaluating and reporting on the IPP implementation; as said plan may be
amended from time to time with the Bank's prior written approval.
16. 
"Involuntary Resettlement" means the impact of an involuntary taking of land under the
Project, which taking causes affected persons to have their: (i) standard of living adversely
affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural
and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily
or permanently; or (iii) access to productive assets adversely affected, temporarily or
permanently; or (iv) business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely
affected, temporarily or permanently.
-21-
17. 
"Operating Costs" means the reasonable expenditure (none of which would have been
incurred absent the Project), incurred by ABC for the implementation, management,
coordination and supervision of the Project, including: travel expenses; per diem; operation
and maintenance of office equipment; purchase, maintenance and repair of vehicles; rental of
offices; utilities; nondurable and/or consumable office materials; excluding salaries of the
Borrower's civil servants or permanent employees; and any other reasonable expenditure as
may be agreed by the Bank and included in the Operational Manual.
18. 
"Operational Manual" or "OM" means the manual prepared by the Borrower, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank, pursuant to Section I.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement which shall include, inter alia: (i) the programming and budgeting, accounting,
auditing, reporting, financial, procurement and disbursement procedures of the Project; (ii)
the DLIs for the monitoring and evaluation of Part A. 1 of the Project, including the
procedures for verifying the achievement of said DLIs; (iii) the organizational
structure for implementation of the Project; (iv) the Project indicators for the monitoring
and evaluation of the Project; and (v) the terms of reference to be followed in the design of
the training program referred to in Part A.2 (e); as the same may be amended from time to
time with the Bank's prior written consent.
19. 
"Performance Based Contract" means a multi-year contract entered into with a private
sector contractor, which contract obligates the private sector contractor to undertake all
phases of road rehabilitation and maintenance work as a single package, from design and
programming of works, through the execution of such works.
20. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
21. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
September 29, 2015 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
22. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the Borrower's framework, published
on September 11, 2015, in form and substance acceptable to the Bank, outlining general
implementation 
procedures, mitigation measures and monitoring procedures for
Resettlement under the Project, including the procedures for the preparation and
implementation of Site-specific Resettlement Plans, when applicable, as said framework
may be amended from time to time with the Bank's prior written approval.
23. 
"Road Maintenance Microenterprises" means any micro, small or medium-sized enterprise
selected pursuant to the criteria and procedures set forth in the Operational Manual to
participate in the training program under Part A.2 (e) of the Project.
-22-
24. 
"Selected Departments" means the Department of Beni and the Department of Santa Cruz,
within the Borrower's territory, or any other department as agreed by the Bank and the
Borrower which has met the criteria for participating in the Project, as set forth in the OM.
25. 
"Site-specific Resettlement Plan" means any resettlement action plan, to be prepared by
ABC, in accordance with the RPF, containing, inter alia, a program of actions, measures
and policies for compensation of Displaced Persons, including budget and cost estimates,
and sources of funding, together with adequate institutional, monitoring and reporting
arrangements capable of ensuring proper implementation of, and regular feedback on
compliance with its terms, for each site.
26. 
"Technical Audit" means an independent technical review of the planning, design,
construction and management of the rehabilitation and maintenance works under Part B.2
of the Project.
27. 
"Training" means expenditures (other than those for consultants' services) incurred by the
Borrower in connection with the carrying out of training activities (such as seminars,
workshops, including the reasonable travel costs (i.e. accommodation, transportation and
per-diem, inter alia) of trainees and trainers (if applicable), training registration fees,
catering, rental of training facilities and equipment, logistics and printing services, as well
as training materials, all for the purposes of, and directly related to, the activities of the
Project.
28. 
"Year 2" means the Borrower's calendar year 2017 starting on January 1, 2017 and ending
on December 31, 2017.
29. 
"Year 3" means the Borrower's calendar year 2018 starting on January 1, 2018 and ending
on December 31, 2018.
30. 
"Year 4" means the Borrower's calendar year 2019 starting on January 1, 2019 and ending
on December 31, 2019.
31. 
"Year 5" means the Recipient's calendar year 2020 starting on January 1, 2020 and ending
on December 31, 2020.
Section H. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
-23-
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually
in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition
of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01
(a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition
of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and
Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
