OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8656-AL
Loan Agreement
(Project for Integrated Urban and Tourism Development)
between
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
AECEM/bG 2 /3, 2016
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8656-AL
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
h 
C 
M be r 
, 2016, between REPUBLIC
OF ALBANIA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of sixty three million, eight hundred
thousand Euros (EUR 63,800,000) ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project
described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance
remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty
(30) days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as
provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
-2-
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April I and October I in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower, through MoUD, shall cause the Project to be carried out by the
Project Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and the Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that the
Project Implementing Entity's Legislation has been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability
of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consist of the following, namely, that any
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to
the Borrower.
ARTICLE V- 
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity.
(b) 
The Borrower, through MoUD, has caused the Project Implementing
Entity to prepare and adopt a Project Operations Manual satisfactory to the
Bank.
(c) 
The Borrower, through MoUD, has caused the Project Implementing
Entity to hire staff for the Project Coordination Unit within MoUD with
-3-
qualifications, experience and under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the Subsidiary
Agreement has been duly authorized 
by the Borrower and the Project
Implementing Entity and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the Project
Implementing Entity in accordance with its terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Bulevardi "Deshmordt e Kombit"
Tirane, Albania
Facsimile:
355 42228494
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at Tirana, Republic of Albania, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
By:
Autl orized Repres 
tati e
Name: A
Title: 
//W3- f 
O 
I7AJA-7LCU
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By:
Authorized Representative
Name: 
W416&EC-1 
SAYre-
Title: 
(kA 
~~/4tAC 
2
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) improve urban infrastructure; (b) enhance
tourism assets; and (c) strengthen institutional capacity to support tourism related local
economic development in Selected Areas in the south of Albania.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Urban upgrading and infrastructure improvement
Upgrading the infrastructure in Selected Municipalities by: (a) preparing of
feasibility studies and designs (including urban design studies); (b) carrying out
construction works to restore selected heritage buildings; (c) upgrading public spaces, the
street network and associated infrastructure; and (d) conducting construction supervision.
Part 2: Touristic sites upgrading
Improving selected touristic sites along the south of the Albania Touristic Corridor
by inter alia: (a) restoring of selected heritage and cultural assets and creating rest stops or
viewpoints; (b) repairing and improving site infrastructure such as pedestrian's pathways;
(c) preparing the required feasibility studies, site management plans and engineering
designs; and, (d) conducting construction supervision.
Part 3: Tourism market and product development
(a) 
Strengthening the capacity of municipalities to deliver municipal services
through inter alia: (i) provision of asset management systems, geographic information
systems and solid waste collection equipment; and (ii) establishment of site management
capacity to enhance the operation of rehabilitated assets.
(b) 
Carrying out capacity building activities to strengthen the capacity of:
(i) 
the Selected Municipalities to promote sustainable tourism growth
including: (A) developing and implementing market research and
product development strategies; and (B) establishment of pilot
Destination Management Partnerships.
(ii) 
Participating 
Central 
Government 
Agencies 
to 
promote
sustainable tourism growth including the establishment of a
system for tracking sustainable tourism indicators.
-6-
Part 4: Implementation Support
Provision of support to carry out Project implementation, including maintenance
of the Project monitoring and evaluation system, as well as training and financing of
Incremental Operating Costs.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
Project Coordination Unit and MoUD
The Borrower, through MoUD, shall:
(a) 
Maintain, throughout the implementation of the Project, its PCU with key
staff comprising an urban planner, tourism specialist and an architect, all
with qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank; and
(b) 
ensure that its PCU carries out Project oversight and coordination of the
Selected Municipalities' technical inputs.
The Borrower, through MoUD, shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to:
(a) 
maintain, throughout implementation of the Project, its key staff
comprising a Project manager, an architect, an engineer, a financial
management specialist, a procurement specialist, a citizen engagement
specialist, an environmental specialist, and a social specialist, all with
qualifications, experience responsibilities and resources acceptable to the
Bank; and
(b) 
carry out Project implementation including financial management,
procurement and contract management.
2. 
Project Steering Committee
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
not later than two (2) months after the Effectiveness Date, establish and
thereafter maintain throughout the implementation of the Project, a Project
Steering Committee a ("PSC") comprising representatives from MoUD,
MEDTTE, MoC, MoE, MoF, Department for Development Programing,
Financing and Foreign Aid, the Project Implementing Entity and the
Selected Municipalities; and
(b) 
ensure that the PSC: (i) meets at least every six (6) months; (ii) supports
MoUD in overall project oversight of the management of the Project,
-8-
including, inter alia, supporting stakeholder coordination and solving
major cross-cutting issues or bottlenecks emerging during Project
implementation.
B. 
Implementation Arrangements
1. 
Project Operations Manual
(a) 
The Borrower, through MoUD, shall cause the Project Implementing
Entity to prepare and adopt a Project Operations Manual in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank, and thereafter implement the Project in
accordance with the Project Operations Manual.
(b) 
Except as the Borrower, through MoUD, and the Bank may otherwise
agree in writing, the Borrower shall not permit the Project Implementing
Entity to abrogate, amend, suspend, waive or otherwise fail to enforce the
Project Operations Manual, or any provision thereof
(c) 
In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of the Project
Operations Manual and the provisions of this Agreement, the provision of
this Agreement shall prevail.
2. 
Subsidiary Agreement
(a) 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the
proceeds of the Loan available on a grant basis to the Project
Implementing Entity under a 
subsidiary agreement 
("Subsidiary
Agreement") between the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity,
under terms and conditions approved by the Bank.
(b) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under
the Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its
provisions.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower, through MoUD, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
-9-
D. 
Safeguards
1. 
In order to ensure the proper implementation of the Project in an environmentally
and socially sound manner, the Borrower, through MoUD, shall cause the Project
Implementing Entity to:
(a) 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Safeguards Instruments for
the Project;
(b) 
prior to carrying out any works under the Project: (i) prepare site-specific
ESMPs in accordance with the respective ESMF, including disclosure and
public consultation, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and
(ii) implement the Project activities in accordance with the respective
ESMPs including the ESMP for Berat Cobblestone Road and the ESMP
for Saranda Staircases;
(c) 
prior to carrying out any works under the Project which entail Involuntary
Resettlement, prepare a site specific RAP in accordance with the RPF,
including disclosure and meaningful consultation with Project Affected
Persons, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, and ensure that
such 
RAP 
is implemented, 
including 
by 
providing 
appropriate
compensation consistent with the provisions of the RPF and site-specific
RAP, to the Project Affected Persons; and
(d) 
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Safeguards Instruments or any
provision thereof, without the prior approval of the Bank.
2. 
In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of any Safeguards
Instruments and the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement
shall prevail.
3. 
The Borrower, through MoUD, shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to
ensure that the terms of reference of any consultancy in respect to the Project shall
be satisfactory to the Bank following its review thereof and, to that end, such terms
of reference shall duly incorporate the requirements of the Bank's Safeguards
Policies then in force, as applied to the advice conveyed through such technical
assistance.
E. 
Annual Work Plan and Budget
1 .
The Borrower, through MoUD, shall cause the PIE to prepare and furnish to the
Bank for review and approval, not later sixty (60) days after Effective Day and by
each October 31 thereafter in each Fiscal Year during the implementation of the
Project, a proposed annual work plan and budget covering all activities proposed
to be carried out under the Project in the forthcoming Fiscal Year.
-10-
2. 
Each such proposed annual work plan and budget shall specify among the
activities, any training activities that may be required under the Project, including:
(a) the type of training; (b) the purpose of the training; (c) the personnel to be
trained; (d) the institution or individual who will conduct the training; (e) the
location and duration of the training; (f) the cost of the training; and (g) the
expected outcome and impact of the training.
3. 
The Borrower, through MoUD, shall afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower, through MoUD, on each such proposed annual
work plan and budget, and thereafter to implement the Project or cause the PIE to
implement it with due diligence in accordance with such annual work plan and
budget as shall have been approved by the Bank.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
I. 
The Borrower, through MoUD, shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to
monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on
the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank.
2. 
Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than one month after the end of the period covered
by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
I. 
The Borrower, through MoUD, shall maintain or cause the PIE to maintain, a
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of
the General Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower, through MoUD, shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of
each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering
the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through MoUD, shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to
have the Financial Statements related to the Project audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. 
Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower,
commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal was made for the
Project. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
-11-
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections 
11 and Ill of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections 11, Ill, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1 .
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of good, works and non-consulting services for those
contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive Bidding
subject to the additional provisions contained in paragraph 3 of this Section; (b)
Shopping; and (c) Direct Contracting.
3. 
Modifications to the Borrower's National Competitive Bidding Procedures.
The National Competitive Bidding procedures ("NCB") shall be based on the Open
Tendering procedures as defined in the Public Procurement Law ("PPL") of
Albania (Law No. 9643 dated November 20, 2006, as amended), provided,
however, that such procedure shall be subject to the provisions of Section I and
Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Procurement Guidelines and the following additional
provisions:
(a) 
"Open Tendering" procedures as defined in the PPL of Albania shall apply
to all contracts financed by the Bank.
-12-
(b) 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no preference of
any kind shall be given to national bidders in the bidding process.
Government-owned enterprises in Albania shall be permitted to bid only
if they are legally and financially autonomous and operate under
commercial law of the Borrower. Registration shall not be used to assess
bidders' qualifications.
(c) 
Bids shall be opened in public in one location, immediately after the
deadline for submission of bids in the presence of the representatives who
choose to attend.
(d) 
The procuring entities shall use sample bidding documents as approved by
the Bank.
(e) 
In case of higher bid prices compared to the official estimate, no bids shall
be rejected without the prior concurrence of the Bank.
(f) 
A single-envelope procedure shall be used for the submission of bids.
(g) 
Post-qualification shall be conducted only on the lowest evaluated bidder;
no bid shall be rejected at the time of bid opening on qualification grounds.
(h) 
Bidders in the form of a joint venture shall be held jointly and severally
liable.
(i) 
Before rejecting all bids and soliciting new bids, the prior concurrence of
the Bank shall be obtained.
(j) 
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated, substantially
responsive bidder who is determined to be qualified to perform in
accordance with pre-defined and pre-disclosed evaluation criteria.
(k) 
Post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated
or any other bidder.
(1) 
Contracts of long duration (more than 18 months) shall contain appropriate
price adjustment provisions acceptable to the Bank.
(m) 
Bid and contract guarantees shall be in the format included in the bidding
documents referred to in (d) above. The bid guarantee shall be valid for
twenty-eight (28) days beyond the original validity period of the bid, or
beyond any period of extension if requested. No advance payments shall
be made without a suitable advance payment guarantee.
(n) 
The bidding document and contract as deemed acceptable by the Bank
shall include provisions stating the Bank's policy to sanction firms or
-13-
individuals, found to have engaged in fraud and corruption as defined in
the Procurement Guidelines.
(o) 
In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding document
and contract financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall provide that
bidders, suppliers and contractors, and their subcontractors, agents,
personnel, consultants, service providers, or suppliers, shall permit the
Bank to inspect all accounts, records, and other documents relating to the
submission of bids and contract performance, and to have them audited by
auditors appointed by the Bank. Without limitation to the provisions set
forth in paragraph 1.16 (a) (v) (bb) of the Procurement Guidelines, acts
intended to materially impede the exercise of the Bank's inspection and
audit rights provided for in the Procurement Guidelines shall constitute an
obstructive practice as defined in the Procurement Guidelines.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; (c) 
Least Cost Selection; 
(d) Selection based on Consultants'
Qualifications, (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Procedures set
forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of
Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1 .
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised
from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant
-14-
to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Category 
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in EUR) 
(inclusive of taxes)
(1) Works 
49,816,500 
100%
(2) Goods 
2,530,000 
100%
(3) Consultants Services 
8,710,000 
100%
(4) Operating Costs 
2,530,000 
100%
(5) Training 
54,000 
100%
(6) Front-end Fee 
159,500 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
TOTAL
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
I. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is July 31, 2022.
Section V. 
Other Undertakings/Urban Design Studies
The Borrower through MoUD shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to
ensure that any urban design studies undertaken under Part I (a) of the Project are
satisfactory to the Bank.
-15-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: 
(a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each April I and October 1
Beginning April 1, 2025 
2.94%
through April 1, 2041
On October 1, 2041 
2.98%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
-16-
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
-17-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
I. 
"Annual Work Program and Budget" means the annual work plan and budget
referred to in Section LE of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
3. 
"Bank's Safeguards Policies" means the Bank's operational policies and
procedures, set forth in the Bank's operational manual and identified as OP/BP
4.01, 4.04, 4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37, 7.50 and 7.60, as said manual is
published under www.WorldBank.orp/opmanual.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
5. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
6. 
"Cooperation Agreement" means an agreement between the Project Implementing
Entity and a Selected Municipality, Ministry or Government Agency and referred
to in Section 1.B.2 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
7. 
"Destination Management Partnerships" means the units within the Tourism and
Culture Directorates of the Selected Municipalities, responsible for developing and
marketing tourism products.
8. 
"Department for Development Programing, Financing and Foreign Aid" means the
unit in the Prime Minister's office, established and operating pursuant to Prime
Minister's Order No. 204, dated November 1, 2013 or its successor thereto.
9. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the
framework for the Project prepared by the Project Implementing Entity, and
disclosed on the Bank's InfoShop on June 21, 
2016 and on the Project
Implementing Entity's website on June 22, 2016, which sets forth, inter alia, the
modalities for site-specific environmental and social screening, including: (a)
guidelines for the identification of existing environmental and social conditions and
potential direct and indirect environmental and social impacts and risks resulting
from the carrying out of the Project; (b) guidelines for the carrying out of
environmental and social assessments and the preparation of environmental
management plans, when applicable; (c) recommendation of mitigation measures
-18-
for each negative impact identified; (d) measures for enhancing each identified
positive impact; and (e) guidelines for the preparation of environmental and social
monitoring plans for tracking the application of the mitigation measures, as said
framework may be amended from time to time with the Bank's prior approval.
10. 
"Environmental and Social Management Plan(s)" or "ESMPs" means site-specific
environmental social management plans, satisfactory to the Bank, comprising
environmental mitigation plan and environmental monitoring plan to be prepared
and adopted by the Project Implementing Entity pursuant to the ESMF, wherein
are set forth specific details of measures to manage identified or potential
environmental and social risks and to mitigate, reduce and/or offset adverse
environmental and social impacts associated with the implementation of activities
under the Project, together with an environmental and social baseline for each site,
details of the relevant environmental legislative framework, adequate institutional,
monitoring and reporting arrangements capable of ensuring proper implementation
of, and regular feedback on compliance with, its terms, as the same may be
amended and supplemented from time to time with the Bank's prior written
approval.
1. 
"ESMP for Berat Cobblestone Road" and Saranda Staircases" mean each the
environmental social management plans prepared and adopted by the Borrower
and the PIE for the sites of Berat and Saranda respectively and acceptable to the
Bank, and disclosed in the InfoShop on July 18, 2016.
12. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
13. 
"Operating Costs" means 
the incremental expenses incurred by the Project
Implementing Entity and the PCU, on account of Project implementation which
would not exist absent the Project management and monitoring and includes the
costs for office rent, operation and maintenance of vehicles, office equipment and
supplies, communication costs, support for information systems, translations, bank
charges, travel and per diem costs, salaries of the Project Implementing Entity
contractual staff (excluding consultants' services and salaries of officials of the
Recipient's civil service), Social Charges for staff of the Project Implementing
Entity, office administration costs, and other reasonable expenditures directly
associated with the carrying out of the Project, as agreed by the Bank; and based
on an annual budget acceptable to the Bank.
14. 
"Involuntary Resettlement" means the impact of an involuntary taking of land
under the Project, which taking causes Project Affected Persons to, among other
things, have their: (a) standard of living adversely affected; or (b) right, title or
interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and grazing land) or
any other fixed or immovable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or
-19-
permanently; or (c) access to productive assets adversely affected, temporarily or
permanently; or (d) business, occupation, work place of residence or habitat
adversely affected, temporarily or permanently.
15. 
"MEDTTE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Economic Development, Tourism,
Trade and Entrepreneurship or its successor thereto.
16. 
"MoC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Culture or its successor thereto.
17. 
"MoE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Environment or its successor thereto.
18. 
"MoF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance or its successor thereto.
19. 
"MoUD" means the Borrower's Ministry of Urban Development or its successor
thereto.
20. 
"Participating Central Government Agencies" means the MoE, MoC and
MEDTTE.
21. 
"Project Affected Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of the
Project, have been, or will be affected, by Involuntary Resettlement.
22. 
"Project Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the Bank
and the Project Implementing Entity and referred to in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
23. 
"Project Coordination Unit" or PCU means the unit established within MoUD and
referred to in Section 1.A.I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
24. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means the Albanian Development Fund or ADF, a
non-for profit organization with administrative, financial and technical autonomy.
25. 
"Project Implementing Entity's Legislation" means the Borrower's Laws No.
10130 dated 11.05.2009 and No. 82, dated 17.07.2009.
26. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
27. 
"Project Operations Manual" means the manual to be prepared and adopted by the
Project Implementing Entity and satisfactory to the Bank, including a detailed
description of the Project, procedures for implementation of the Project, detailed
institutional arrangements, consistent with the provisions of this Agreement and
with applicable laws and regulations and including, inter alia, timetables of actions
-20-
required to be carried out under the Project, staffing, the fiduciary, technical and
operational aspects and procedures for implementation of the Project, including
the financial management procedures (budgeting, accounting and internal control,
disbursement and flow of funds, financial reporting, annual reports, internal and
external audit arrangements procedures and including the Project specific chart of
accounts), model Cooperation Agreement, procurement procedures, the ESMF and
the RPF, monitoring and evaluation arrangements, and other fiduciary and
administrative arrangements as the same may be amended from time to time by
agreement with the Bank.
28. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
July 15, 2016 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
29. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" or "RAP" means a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to
be prepared and implemented by the Project Implementing Entity for carrying out
activities under the Project in accordance with the Resettlement Policy Framework,
and setting out, inter alia, the principles and objectives, the affected persons'
eligibility criteria, compensation, assistance and rehabilitation entitlements, as
well as the monitoring and reporting arrangements in conformity with the
Resettlement Policy Framework as said plan may be amended from time to time
with the Bank's prior approval.
30. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the document prepared by the
Project Implementing Entity and disclosed on the Project Implementing Entity's
website on June 21, 2016 and the Bank's InfoShop on June 22, 2016, satisfactory
to the Bank, defining the modalities for land acquisition under the Project and
describing the policies, procedures, plans and actions (including preparation of the
resettlement action plans), and institutional measures related to land acquisition
and other social impacts that may arise during the Project, as said framework may
be amended from time to time with the Bank's prior approval.
31. 
"Safeguards Instrument" means the ESMF, ESMP, RPF or a RAP for a Project
activity as the context may require; and "Safeguards Instruments" means,
collectively, all such assessments or plans for the Project.
32. 
"Selected Areas" means the Selected Municipalities and the Touristic Corridor (as
herein after defined) and includes any other municipalities and touristic sites as
may be agreed with the Bank.
33. 
"Selected Municipalities" means the following Borrower's municipalities, namely
Saranda, Gjirokastra, Berat and Permet.
-21-
34. 
"Social Charges" means any payments, premia, or contributions for health and
social benefits provided to the Project Implementing Entity's staff pursuant to the
Borrower's law No. 7703 dated May 11, 1993, as amended.
35. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.B.2 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the
proceeds of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity.
36. 
"Tourism and Culture Directorate" means a department within a Selected
Municipality responsible for tourism and culture.
37. 
"Touristic Corridor" means the transport route connecting the city of Vlora to the
Selected Municipalities.
38. 
"Training" means expenditures (other than for consultants' services), incurred by
the Project Implementing Entity in connection with the implementation of the
Project, based on periodic budgets acceptable to the Bank, for: (i) reasonable
travel, room, board and per diem expenditures incurred by trainers and trainees in
connection with their training; (ii) course fees; (iii) training/workshop facility and
equipment rentals; and (iv) training material preparation, acquisition, reproduction
and distribution expenses not included under goods or service providers' contracts.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan
amount at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement
(the "Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective
dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan
Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-
annually in arrears on each Payment Date."
-22-
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified
in the Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
