LOAN NUMBER 8599-GE
Loan Agreement
(Secondary Road Asset Management Project)
between
GEORGIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated ) 
VQAC 
,2016
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8599-GE
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
)C 
,2016, between GEORGIA
("Borrower") 
and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of forty million Dollars (USD
40,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
-2-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the Roads Department (RD)
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The Project Operations Manual has been adopted by the Borrower,
through RD, in a manner and substance acceptable to the Bank; and
(b) 
The Project Implementation Agreement between RD and TRRC has been
executed by, and is binding to, the parties thereto, in a manner and
substance satisfactory to the Bank.
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
16 Gorgasali Street
0114 Tbilisi
Georgia
Facsimile:
995322262423
-4-
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
AGREED at \t; V 
,' 
as of the day and year first above written.
GEORGIA
By
Adhorized Representative
Name: 
O?- 
1b
Title: OFJNrG-I 
? ]or 
p4,,U CL
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name:
Titl e: 
Q 
C
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to improve road users' access to social services
and markets through the Project Roads in a sustainable manner; and (ii) to enhance road
asset management for the Secondary Roads Network in Georgia.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Secondary Road Assets Improvement and Preservation
1. 
Rehabilitation and/or periodic maintenance, and routine maintenance of Selected
Secondary Road sections in Guria region.
2. 
Rehabilitation of Selected Secondary Road sections in Mtskheta-Mtianeti, Racha-
Lechkhumi and Shida Kartli regions.
3. 
Monitoring and supervision of works contracts.
Part 2: Enhanced Secondary Road Assets Planning and Management
1. 
Capacity strengthening of RD to enhance its multi-year programming and annual
planning through provision of technical assistance to support the enhancement of RAMS
and RD's bridge management unit to improve: (i) data collection practices and quality; and
(ii) collection and maintenance of inventory and condition data on bridges on Secondary
Roads.
2. 
Capacity strengthening of RD to integrate road safety into road asset management
through provision of technical assistance to support: (i) scaling up the use of Georgia Road
Safety Assessment Program (GeoRAP) to Selected Secondary Roads in Mtskheta-
Mtianeti, Racha-Lechkhumi and Shida Kartli regions; and (ii) carrying out a road safety
awareness and education campaign in Guria region.
3. 
Capacity strengthening of RD to integrate climate resilience practices into road
asset management through provision of technical assistance to support: (i) assessment of
vulnerability of Selected Secondary Roads in Racha region to climate change; and (ii)
development and implementation of priority climate resilient measures.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project, through the RD, within the MRDI, with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering, public utility, and environmental practices, in accordance
with the Project Operations Manual.
2. 
The Borrower shall provide the RD with the resources and staff necessary for
implementing the Project. The RD shall be responsible for the overall coordination
and oversight of the Project implementation.
3. 
The Borrower, through MRDI, shall cause TRRC to provide assistance to RD on
Project-related financial management and disbursement tasks in accordance with
the terms of the Project Implementation Agreement.
4. 
The Borrower, through MRDI, shall: (a) maintain the TRRC with terms of
reference, resources and staff necessary for proper Project implementation and
satisfactory to the Bank; (b) require TRRC to carry out the financial management
and disbursement activities for the Project in accordance with the Project
Implementation Agreement; and (c) cause TRRC to hire and maintain for purposes
of carrying out the Project financial audit, a financial auditor under terms of
reference and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4 of this Section, no later than 60
days from the Effective Date, the Borrower shall cause TRRC to hire, and
thereafter maintain, an accountant, with terms of reference, qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Bank.
6. 
The MRDI, through its RD, shall maintain the FPU with terms of reference,
resources and staff necessary for proper Project implementation and satisfactory
to the Bank to assist RD in Project-related procurement, monitoring and
evaluation, and Project reporting.
7. 
Without limitation to the provision of Section 5.03 of the General Conditions, the
Borrower shall ensure that adequate budgetary resources are made available for
the Project in the Borrower's annual budgets in respect of each year of Project
implementation, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
-7-
B. 
Project Operations Manual
1. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the
Borrower, through RD, shall: (a) carry out the Project in accordance with the
Project Operations Manual (POM); and (b) not amend, revise or waive, nor allow
to be amended, revised or waived, the provisions of said POM or any part thereof
without the Bank's prior written consent.
2. 
In the event of any inconsistency between the POM and this Agreement, the
provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
C. 
Project Implementation Agreement
For purposes of coordinating the implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall
cause RD, and TRRC to enter into a Project Implementation Agreement,
satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia, the obligations set forth
under this Schedule as applicable to RD and TRRC, respectively.
D. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
E. 
Safeguards
1 .
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the ESMF, EMP(s), RPF and RAP(s). The Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the ESMF, EMP(s), RPF and/or RAP(s) or any provision
thereof, without the prior approval of the Bank.
2. 
For purposes of Part I of the Project, the Borrower shall: (a) prior to the issuance
of the bidding documents for the works contract for each segment of Selected
Secondary Roads, prepare and submit to the Bank for its approval: (i) the proposed
design and site for said works and, the related site-specific Environmental and
Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) report, including EMP, or a self-standing EMP
as relevant in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) the draft contract
for said works to ensure that the provisions of said site-specific EMP are
adequately included in said contract; (b) prior to the signing of the contract for said
works which require land acquisition, prepare and submit to the Bank for its
approval the site-specific RAP(s) in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank;
and (c) prior to the commencement of the works, ensure that the owners and users
of the land where said works are to be implemented are fully compensated in
accordance with the provisions of the RAP(s).
-8-
3. 
The Borrower shall: (a) ensure that all activities undertaken for the purpose of
carrying out of the Project comply with environmental standards and guidelines
satisfactory to the Bank; (b) ensure that the selection of any road section under Part
I of the Project is done in accordance with the provisions of the ESMF; (c) ensure
the complete implementation of the EMPs in a manner acceptable to the Bank,
including all necessary measures to minimize and to mitigate any adverse
environmental impacts caused by the implementation of the Project; and (d)
maintain the RD's environmental unit with competent staff in adequate numbers
and with such responsibilities and functions acceptable to the Bank as shall enable
the RD to manage, coordinate and monitor the implementation of the EMPs.
4. 
The Borrower shall: (a) ensure that the RD prepares RAPs according to the RPF;
(b) fully implement those RAPs and allocate adequate budget for such purpose; (c)
maintain or cause to be maintained by RD, and publicize or cause to be publicized
by RD, the availability of grievance procedures to hear and determine fairly and in
good faith, in accordance with the RPF, all complaints raised in relation to the
implementation of the RAPs by those being resettled (as that term is defined in the
RAP) or by those in host communities who are adversely affected by the
implementation of the RPF, and take all measures necessary to implement the
determinations made under such grievance procedures; (d) through RD, employ a
resettlement expert, satisfactory to the Bank, to conduct an ex post review of the
implementation of the RAPs; (e) through RD, furnish promptly to the Bank the
findings and recommendations for follow up action resulting from each such
review; and (f) through RD, implement all such recommendations for follow up
action as are agreed with the Bank.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall, through RD, monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project
and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of
the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished
to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the period covered
by such report.
2. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with, the carrying out of the
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to
the Bank, on or about August 31, 2018 or a later date as agreed with the
-9-
Bank, a mid-term report integrating the results of the monitoring and
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section,
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such
date; and
(c) 
review with the Bank, by November 30, 2018 or a later date as agreed with
the Bank, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and,
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank's views
on the matter.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1 .
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower, through TRRC, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than
forty five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited
financial reports (IFRs) the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through RD, shall have the Project Financial Statements audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each
audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the
Borrower. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.
C. 
Independent Performance Audit
The Borrower shall ensure independent monitoring and evaluation of the Project,
through the carrying out of an Independent Performance Audit certifying the extent
to which: (a) Eligible Expenditures have been incurred in compliance with the
safeguards and procurement arrangements provided for in this Agreement and
under the Project Operations Manual; (b) road works have been performed in
accordance with the relevant civil work contracts; (c) the Disbursement-Linked
Indicators covered by the audit have been met; and (d) the Additional Instructions
have been adhered to by the Borrower.
2. 
No later than one month after the end of each calendar year starting from 2018 and
no later than three months before the Closing Date, the Borrower shall engage
- 10 -
under terms of reference and with qualifications satisfactory to the Bank, the State
Audit Office, or, if requested by the Bank, a Project Audit Consultant, for purposes
of carrying out an Independent Performance Audit.
3. 
No later than ninety days after the end of each calendar year during Project
implementation starting from 2018, and 30 days before the Closing Date, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a complete Independent Performance Audit
Report including all the findings and results from the Independent Performance
Audit, as well as the certifications from the Project Audit Consultant.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and non-
consulting services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under
which such methods may be used:
- 11 -
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set forth
in below:
(i) 
"Open competitive procedures" (i.e. "public tender") shall be
the default rule. A single envelope procedure shall be used for
the submission of goods, works, or non-consulting services.
(ii) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely
circulated national daily newspaper allowing a minimum of
thirty (30) days for the preparation and submission of bids.
Advertisements published in foreign language newspapers
shall be in compliance with such a 30-day-minimum in
number of days for bids preparation and submission.
(iii) 
Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms. If
registration is required, it shall not be denied to eligible
bidders for reasons unrelated to their capacity and resources
to successfully perform the contract (e.g., mandatory
membership in professional organizations, classification,
etc.). Post-qualification shall be conducted to verify that the
bidder has the capability and resources to successfully
perform the contract.
(iv) 
Government-owned enterprises in Georgia shall be eligible to
participate in bidding only if they can establish that they are
legally 
and 
financially 
autonomous, 
operate 
under
commercial law and are not a dependent agency of the
Government. Government-owned enterprises will be subject
to the same bid and performance security requirements as
other bidders.
(v) 
Procuring entities shall use the appropriate Bank's sample
bidding documents, including pre-qualification documents,
for the procurement of goods, works, or non-consulting
services, and such documents shall contain draft contract and
conditions of contract including clauses on fraud and
corruption, audit and publication of award, all acceptable to
the Bank.
(vi) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline
for submission of bids. Bidder's representatives shall be
permitted to attend the bid opening.
- 12 -
Procurement Method
(vii) 
Extension of bid validity shall be allowed once only for not
more than thirty (30) days. No further extensions should be
requested without the prior approval of the Bank.
(viii) 
Evaluation of bids shall be based on quantifiable criteria
expressed in monetary terms as defined in the bidding
documents, no merit point system and no domestic preference
shall be used in the evaluation of bids. Contracts shall be
awarded to qualified bidders having submitted the lowest
evaluated substantially responsive bid and no negotiations
shall be carried out prior to contract award.
(ix) 
Civil works contracts of long duration (e.g. more than
eighteen (18) months) shall contain an appropriate price
adjustment clause.
(x) 
No bid shall be rejected purely on the basis that the bid price
is higher than the estimated budget for that procurement. All
bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the
Bank's prior concurrence.
(b) Shopping
(c) Direct Contracting
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based
Selection, which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used:
- 13 -
Procurement Method
(a) Quality-Based Selection
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget
(c) Least Cost Selection
(d) Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
(e) Single-Source Selection of consulting firms
(f) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines
for the Selection of Individual Consultants
(g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised
from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant
to such 
instructions) (the "Additional Instructions"), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
- 14 -
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non- 
39,900,000 
100%
consulting services, and
consultants' services for
Parts I and 2 of the
Project, and Training,
for Part 2 of the Project.
(2) Front-end Fee 
100,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(3) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar 
Section 
2.07(c) of this
premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal from the
Loan shall be made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
Any Advances for any Eligible Expenditures forecasted to be incurred in the
implementation of the Project under Category (1) shall be made pursuant to the
Additional Instructions. Amounts withdrawn from the Loan Account under
Category (1) shall not exceed the sum of amounts allocated to the DLIs as set out
under the column "Total amount allocated to each achieved DLI" in the DLI Table
in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, and the Additional
Instructions, no expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn
as Advances shall be considered by the Bank or the Borrower to constitute Eligible
Expenditures under Category (1) until the Borrower has furnished to the Bank
supporting documentation confirming the achievement of the applicable DLI
Targets set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, in accordance with the
- 15 -
verification criteria for the achievement of such DLI Targets set forth in the
Project Operations Manual, including:
(a) 
through TRRC, the IFRs referred to in Section II.B.2 of this Schedule for
the respective calendar quarter, reporting Eligible Expenditures, in form
and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b) 
through RD, the applicable Quarterly Progress Report, evidencing the
achievement of the DLIs for the respective quarter.
4. 
Notwithstanding the Additional Instructions and the provisions of paragraphs 2
and 3 above, no withdrawal shall be made under Category (1) in any calendar year,
until the Borrower through RD has furnished to the Bank the Independent
Performance Audit Report for the previous calendar year, pursuant to Section
II.C.3 of this Schedule 2.
5. 
In connection with the foregoing, the Bank may restrict withdrawals as set out
below, if it determines, based on the evidence referred to in paragraphs 3 and 4
above, that the DLI Targets as set out in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, are not met
or partially met:
(a) 
for DLIs 1.1, 1.2, and 1.3, the amount of the Loan to be withdrawn shall
be reduced in proportion to the respective degree of DLI Target
achievement in accordance with the formula set forth in the Project
Operational Manual, and any unwithdrawn balance allocated to the
respective DLI shall remain available for subsequent withdrawal; or
(b) 
for DLIs 2.1, 2.2, and 2.3, the total amount of the respective withdrawal
request shall remain available for subsequent withdrawals, upon
achievement of the respective DLI Targets; or
(c) 
without limitation to the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) above, any
amount of the Loan withheld pursuant to said paragraphs may be cancelled
by the Bank in consultation with the Borrower's Representative.
6. 
The Bank may, after consultation with, and by notice to the Borrower, adjust or
reallocate from time to time the amounts and targets set forth in Schedule 4 of this
Agreement for specific DLIs.
7. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2021.
- 16-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each March 15 and September 15
Beginning September 15, 2031 
5.56%
through September 15, 2039
On March 15, 2040 
5.48%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
- 17-
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
- 18-
SCHEDULE 4
DLI Table
Year I 
Toa
F ect 
Year 2 
Year 3 
Year 4 
Year5 
Total
From January 1, 
From January 1, 
From January 1, 
From January 1, 
aoat
DLI 
Unit of 
Date to 
December 31, 
to December 31, 
to December 31, 
to December 31, 
toce
Measurement 
December 31. 
2018 
2019 
2020 
2021 
to each
2017 
achieved
Target 
DLI
Share (%) of
Project Roads
1.1. Project Roads 
rehabilitated
rehabilitated and 
and/or 
40% 
60% 
-
-
100%
periodically 
periodically
maintained under 
maintained under
OPRC 
OPRC
Loan amount 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
17,960,000
(USD) 
10,776,000 
7,184,000
Percentage of the
1.2. Routine 
aggregate OPRC 
On average at 
On average at 
On average at 
On average at 
On average at
maintenance 
amount paid for 
least 80% 
least 80% 
least 80% 
least 80% 
least 80%
targets achieved 
routine
under OPRC 
maintenance
Loan amount 
448,200 
448,200 
448,200 
448,200 
199,200 
1,992,000
(USD)
Length (Km) of
roads
rehabilitated 
30 
24 
24 
22 
0 
100
under Design-
1.3. Targets of the 
build Sub-
Design-build Sub- 
program
program achieved
Loan amount 
5,567,600 
4,130,800 
4,130,800 
4,130,800 
0.00 
17,960,000
(USD)
- 19-
Preparation of 
Update of a 
Update of a 
Update of a 
Update of a 
Update of Five-
2.1. Preparation 
fully-costed Five- 
Five-Year 
Five-Year 
Five-Year 
Five-Year 
Year Rolling
of fully-costed 
Year Rolling 
Rolling Program 
Rolling Program 
Rolling Program 
Rolling Program 
Program and Yr6
Five-Year Rolling 
Program 
and preparation 
and preparation 
and preparation 
and preparation 
plan
Program using 
of Yr2 plan 
of Yr3 plan 
of Yr4 plan 
of Yr5 plan
the improved
methodology 
Loan amount 
79,800 
79,800 
79,800 
79,800 
79,800 
399,000
(USD)
Scaling up of
GeoRAP and 
Scaling up of 
Scaling up of 
Scaling up of 
Better star rating
improved 
GeoRAP to 
GeoRAP to 
GeoRAP to 
on Guria
2.2. Integration of 
GeoRAP star 
Mtskheta- 
Racha- 
Shida Kartli 
secondary roads
road safety in 
rating on Guria 
Mtianeti 
Lechkhumi 
network
asset management 
roads
Loan amount 
99,750 
99,750 
99,750 
99,750 
399,000
(USD)
Completion of
roads
vulnerability
Introduction of 
Implementation 
Implementation
2.3. Introduction 
climateruinc 
climate change, 
of priority 
of priority
of climate 
practices in RD's 
mapping of 
climate resilient 
climate resilient 
-
resilience 
road asset 
measures in 
measures in
practices in RD's 
management 
development of 
Racha 
Racha
climate
road asset 
resilience
management 
measures in
Racha
Loan amount 
416,500 
416,500 
357,000 
0.00 
0.00 
1,190,000
(USD)
TOTAL 
39,900,000
- 20 -
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Additional Instructions" means the additional instructions referred to in Section
IV.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, dated as of even date herewith, as such
Additional Instructions may be revised from time to time by the Bank and
delivered to the Borrower.
2. 
"Advance" means a method of disbursement used by the Bank to disburse Loan
amounts from the Loan Account, pursuant to Additional Instructions.
3. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
5. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
6. 
"Design-build Sub-program" means about 100 km of secondary roads to be
rehabilitated under the design-build contracts as part of RD's Five-Year Rolling
Program for Investment and Preservation of Secondary Road Assets for 2016-
2020.
7. 
"Disbursement Linked Indicator" or "DLI" means an indicator, set forth in
Schedule 4 of this Agreement, the achievement of which is a condition for
disbursement of Loan Proceeds, pursuant to Section IV.B of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement
8. 
"DLI Target" means the targets for DLI achievement set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
9. 
"EMP(s)" means the Borrower's site specific environmental management plan(s),
acceptable to the Bank prepared or to be prepared by the Borrower during the
Project implementation in accordance with the ESMF and approved by the Bank,
describing environmental mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures for
selected road sections under the Project.
10. 
"ESIA report(s)" means the Borrower's site specific Environmental and Social
Impact Assessment report(s), acceptable to the Bank, prepared or to be prepared
by the Borrower during the Project implementation in accordance with the ESMF
-21 -
and approved by the Bank, providing overview of environmental and social aspects
of the designed works, estimating their expected positive and negative impacts,
prescribing measures for risk mitigation, and outlining environmental monitoring
plan.
I1. 
"ESMF" means the Borrower's Environmental 
and Social Management
Framework, dated August 2015, outlining the procedures for the environmental
and social screening, impact assessment, risk management, information disclosure,
consultation, and monitoring, related to the selection and rehabilitation of the road
sections under the Project.
12. 
"Five Year Rolling Program" means RD's Program for improvement and
preservation of secondary road assets which is prepared by using RAMS and multi-
criteria analysis, covering a five-year period and being updated on an annual basis.
13. 
"Foreign Projects Unit" or "FPU" means the division established within the RD
responsible for the implementation by the Borrower of projects financed through
external funding, and referred to under Section I.A.6 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
14. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
15. 
"Georgia Road Safety Assessment Program (GeoRAP)" means RD's program
being developed based on the International Road Assessment Program (iRAP) and
adjusted to the context of Georgia to assess roads and promote significant
reduction in casualties by improving the safety of road infrastructure in Georgia.
16. 
"Independent Performance Audit" means the annual audit referred to in Section
II.C. 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
17. 
"Independent Performance Audit Report" means the report integrating the results
of the Independent Performance Audit, to be prepared and furnished to the Bank
pursuant to Section II.C.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
18. 
"MRDI" 
means the Borrower's Ministry of Regional Development and
Infrastructure, or any legal successor thereto.
19. 
"IFR" means interim financial report.
20. 
"International Road Assessment Program (iRAP)" means International Road
Assessment Program.
21. 
"OPRC" means output and performance based road contract.
- 22 -
22. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
23. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
February 9, 2016 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines
and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
24. 
"Project Audit Consultant" means an independent consultant in charge of carrying
out the Independent Performance Audit, if requested by the Bank, pursuant to
Section II.C.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
25. 
"Project Implementation Agreement" means the agreement between the RD and
TRRC, referred to in Section I. C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as said
agreement may be amended from time to time with the approval of the Bank.
26. 
"Project Operations Manual" or "POM" means the Borrower's manual, acceptable
to the Bank, including all appendices and schedules thereto, and setting forth the
policies and procedures that apply to the carrying out of the Project, including,
inter alia: (a) the roles and responsibilities of the RD, FPU, TRRC; (b) the staffing
requirements for the Project; (c) the criteria for selection of the Selected Secondary
Roads; (d) the estimated implementation schedule; (e) the procedures for
accessing, disbursing and accounting for funds under the Project; (f) the
procedures for Project monitoring, supervision and evaluation, including the
format and content of the Project Reports; and (g) the procurement and financial
management procedures; and (h) the verification criteria for the DLIs, as said
manual may be amended from time to time with the prior written approval of the
Bank.
27. 
"Project Roads" means road sections to be financed from the proceeds of the Loan,
and listed in the Project Operations Manual.
28. 
"Quarterly Progress Reports" means the Borrower's progress reports monitoring
and evaluating the results and progress of the Project, including, specifically, DLI
achievement, in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions, covering the period of one calendar quarter and being furnished by RD
to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the period covered
by such report.
29. 
"RAMS" means Road Asset Management System which is used to inform RD's
multi-year programming and annual planning processes.
- 23 -
30. 
"RAP" or "RAPs" means the site specific resettlement action plan(s) satisfactory
to the Bank, to be prepared by the Borrower pursuant to Part C of Section I of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, setting out, inter alia, the principles and objectives
of the RAP, the affected persons' eligibility criteria, compensation, assistance and
rehabilitation entitlements, as well as the monitoring and reporting arrangements
in conformity with the RPF.
31. 
"Roads Department" or "RD" means Borrower's Roads Department of the
Ministry of Regional Development and Infrastructure responsible for managing
the Borrower's road network or any legal successor thereto.
32. 
"RPF" means the Borrower's resettlement policy framework, acceptable to the
Bank, dated October 2015, and referred to in Part C of Section I of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, describing the policies, procedures, plans and actions (including
the resettlement action plan(s)), and institutional measures related to land
acquisition and other social impacts that may arise during the Project and other
phases related to the Project, and satisfactory to the Bank.
33. 
"Safer Roads Investment Plans" means Investment Plans developed as a result of
findings and recommendations of road safety assessment of specific road network
using iRAP or equivalent (e.g., GeoRAP) system and suggesting specific
engineering countermeasures for improvement of road safety on the concerned
road network.
34. 
"Secondary Road" means a road which connects district capitals or other important
socio-economic centers or international roads, carries lower traffic volumes than
an international road and is under the management responsibility of RD.
35. 
"Secondary Roads Network" means a network of roads which connect district
capitals or other important socio-economic centers or international roads, carry
lower traffic volumes than international roads and are under the management
responsibility of RD.
36. 
"Selected Secondary Roads" means those Project Roads selected by the Borrower
in accordance with criteria set forth in the Project Operations Manual, for the
carrying out of Parts I and 2.2 and 2.3 of the Project.
37. 
"State Audit Office" means the Borrower's supreme audit institution, operating
pursuant to the Borrower's Law of Georgia on the State Audit Office of Georgia,
No 880, adopted on December 26, 2008, and published in the Borrower's official
gazette, on January 15, 2009.
38. 
"Training" means Project related training and workshops to be carried out
according to training plans to be prepared by the Borrower and agreed to by the
Bank, including study tours, training courses, seminars, workshops and other
- 24 -
training activities, not included under goods or service providers' contracts,
including costs of training materials, space and equipment rental, local travel, per
diem costs of trainees and trainers' fees, and interpretation and translation services.
39. 
"TRRC" means the Borrower's Eurasian Transport Corridor Investment Center
established pursuant to the Borrower's Decree #153, dated April 3, 2015, or any
legal successor thereto.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan
amount at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement
(the "Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective
dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan
Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-
annually in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified
in the Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
- 25 -
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties
to the Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions,
including (but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance,
interest, the Front-end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default
Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a
Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread
Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount
payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
