OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8642-PA
Loan Agreement
(Second Programmatic Shared Prosperity Development Policy Financing)
between
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated fv 
8 C A 1 5 
,201_
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest
rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the
Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
2.09. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall promptly
fumish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this Article II as the Bank
may, from time to time, reasonably request.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this
end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework and the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for
its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section,
the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have the
effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action taken
under the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule I to this
Agreement.
-2-
AGREED at 
fan/al na- 
2aJ/c 
as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF PAN MA
By
A thorized Repr 
ntative
Name 
:_ 
&_t 
__7a_ 
e_(_til
Title: 
AC4,a/,& 
OecOnOffJ
C.Xrkj A'tlou)ce,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
AA)AR-"4 
4 
LEO
Title: 
L-AQfUO 
( 
EIAA)AG(EI/.
-4-
8. 
The Borrower, through MEDUCA, has: (a) taken initial actions aimed at participating in
the Program for International Student Assessment (PISA), through the issuance of an
official notification to the OECD informing of its participation in the 2018 PISA, as
evidenced by letters from MEDUCA to the OECD (DM-280-2015, dated February 3, 2015;
DM-2561-2015, dated November 26, 2015, and DM-082-2016, dated January 11, 2016);
and (b) completed and published the microdata of the 2013 Third Regional Comparative
and Explanatory Study (TERCE).
9. 
The Borrower has: (a) established and regulated the implementation of the program
"Panama Bilingue ", as evidenced by the Borrower's Executive Decree 148, dated April 1,
2016; and (b) approved the curricula for the new technical baccalaureates, which includes
the development of non-cognitive skills, as evidenced by the Borrower's Executive Decree
149, dated April 12, 2016.
Pillar 3: Enhancing the Regulatory and Financial Sustainability Framework ofService Delivery
in the Energy and Water Sectors
10. 
The Borrower has reduced electricity tariff subsidies through the replacement of the nation-
wide Fund for Energy Compensation (FACE) with a geographically-targeted Fund for the
Occidental Region (FTO), as evidenced by the Borrower's Cabinet Resolutions No. 59 and
No.60, both dated June 23, 2015 and Cabinet Resolution No.2, dated January 5, 2015.
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by
notice to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from
which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan
Allocated
(expressed in US Dollars)
(1)Single 
300,000,000
Withdrawal Tranche
TOTAL AMOUNT 
300,000,000
C. 
Payment of Front-end Fee. No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account until
the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee.
D. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions. No withdrawal shall be made of the Single
Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying:
(a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment
Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary,
to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each May 15 and November 15 beginning
on November 15, 2018 through November 15, 
1.33333%
2022
On May 15, 2023 and on November 15, 2023 
5 %
On each May 15 and November 15 beginning 
1.33333%
on May 15, 2024 through November 15, 2027
On May 15, 2028 
0.66667%
On November 15, 2028 
1.33333%
On May 15, 2029 and on November 15, 2029 
1.66667%
On May 15, 2030 and on November 15, 2030 
5%
On each May 15 and November 15 beginning 
4.33333%
on May 15, 2031 through May 15, 2036
On November 15, 2036 
4.33342%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as
of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
-8-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Common Reporting Standards" or "CRS" means the global standards for automatic
exchange of financial account information in tax matters developed by the OECD which:
(a) contain, inter alia, the reporting and due diligence rules and regulations on the exchange
of information mentioned herein; and (b) enable countries which have adhered to the CRS
to obtain financial account information in tax matters from their financial institutions and
automatically exchange said information between or among them (as the case may be).
2. 
"Decentralization Law" means the Borrower's Law No. 37 dated June 29, 2009 published
in the Official Gazette which governs the systematic decentralization process of the public
administration in the municipalities of the Borrower.
3. 
"Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or international
financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association has financed
or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association has financed or agreed
to finance under another loan, credit, or grant;
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item
112 
Alcoholic beverages
121 
Tobacco, un-manufactured,
tobacco refuse
122 
Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)
525 
Radioactive and associated
materials
667 
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated,
for nuclear reactors
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing
machinery
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch
-10-
11. 
"MINSA" means Ministerio de Salud, the Borrower's Ministry of Health.
12. 
"OECD" means Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development.
13. 
"Panamd Bilingue" means the Borrower's capacity building program aimed at
implementing teaching and learning in English as a second language.
14. 
"Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the
letter dated June 17, 2106, from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in
support of the Program during its execution.
15. 
"Sistema de Gesti6n y Analisis de la Deuda " or "SIGADE" means the Debt Management
and Financial Analysis System, a program established by the United Nations Conference
on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) to help governments to increase their debt
management capacity.
16. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category
entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
17. 
"Tercer Estudio Regional Comparativo y Explicativo" or "TERCE" means the Third
Regional Comparative and Explanatory Study, a large scale cross country study of learning
achievements developed by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization.
18. 
"Treasury Single Account" or "TSA" is an account that will unify all central government
agencies bank accounts to better manage liquidity of public funds.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for Withdrawal)
is deleted in its entirety.
3. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in their
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
-12-
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
11. 
Renumbered paragraph 37 (originally paragraph 36) of the Appendix ("Eligible
Expenditure") is modified to read as follows:
"37. 
"Eligible Expenditure" means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the
Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan Agreement."
12. 
Renumbered paragraph 44 (originally paragraph 43) of the Appendix ("Financial
Statements") is deleted in its entirety.
13. 
In paragraph 48 of the Appendix, the definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing
the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
14. 
In paragraph 67 of the Appendix, the definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to
read as follows:
"67. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower."
15. 
In paragraph 72 of the Appendix, the definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting
the word "is" and inserting the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word
"interest".
16. 
The defined term "Project" in paragraph 75 of the Appendix is modified to read "Program"
and its definition is modified to read as follows (and all references to "Project" throughout
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to "Program"):
"75. 
"Program" means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of
which the Loan is made."
-14-
