OFFICIAL
LOAN NUMBER 8595-GE
Loan Agreement
(National Innovation Ecosystem Project)
between
GEORGIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
, 2016
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8595-GE
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
, 2016, between GEORGIA
("Borrower") and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred 
to 
in 
this Agreement, the 
amount of forty million 
Dollars
(USD 40,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
-2-
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall carry out the Project through its Georgia's Innovation and
-3-
Technology Agency (GITA), in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of, namely, that the GITA Legislation
has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the GITA to
carry out the Project.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of, namely, that any event specified
in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consists of the following:
(a) 
the Project Operations Manual has been adopted by the Borrower, through
GITA, in a manner acceptable to the Bank;
(b) 
GITA has selected a Project coordinator, procurement specialist, financial
management specialist, and safeguards specialist, all with terms of
reference and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and
(c) 
GITA has modified its accounting system software to support Project
accounting and reporting, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
5.02 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
-4-
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
16 Gorgasali Street
0114 Tbilisi
Georgia
Facsimile:
995322262423
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at Tbilisi, Georgia, as of the day and year first above written.
GEORGIA
By
/Authorized 
Representative
Title: 
vF: 
tAT 
<p 
FM4/V
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Repre ntative
Name: 
JZ.K
Title: P 
n -
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to increase innovative activities of firms and
individuals in the Borrower's territory, and their participation in the digital economy.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. Innovation Infrastructure
(a) 
Develop of a network of Innovation Hubs and Innovation Centers in
selected cities, towns and villages of the Borrower, as set forth in the Project Operations
Manual; (b) design of a Broadband for Development Program to support the increase in
adoption and use of broadband internet services and advanced information technology by
Eligible Households and Eligible MSMEs, with a focus on rural areas, inter alia, by
providing BfD Payments and related training, and preparation of the Broadband for
Development Program Manual; and (c) pilot, and, as applicable, implement the Broadband
for Development Program, and provide BfD Payments and related training.
Part 2. Innovation Services
Carry out outreach and communication activities, and provide training and
technical assistance in support of: (a) building the innovation community of the Borrower,
and organizing and carrying out innovation competitions; (b) carrying out periodic skills
needs assessments of firms and developing digital economy skills of individuals; and (c)
developing the innovation capacity of individuals and firms.
Part 3. Innovation Financing
(a) 
Provision of Matching Grants, selection of Eligible MSMEs for receipt of
Matching Grants and supervision of Matching Grants; (b) provision of technical assistance
to Eligible MSMEs to prepare and implement Sub-Projects; and (c) provision of technical
assistance to stimulate alternative forms of innovation financing and investment in the
digital economy.
Part 4. Project Implementation Support
Provision of support for Project management and fiduciary oversight, monitoring
and evaluation, and impact evaluation activities.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
I. 
The Borrower shall vest responsibility for the day to day Project implementation
activities in GITA, with terms of reference, resources and staff, all satisfactory to
the Bank, and pursuant to the criteria set forth in the Project Operations Manual.
2. 
The Borrower shall vest overall high level strategic functions related to Project
implementation to its Research and Innovation Council, including the functions of
providing: (a) high-level guidance on Project implementation; and (b) inter-agency
coordination.
B. 
Project Operations Manual
1. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the
Borrower, through GITA, shall carry out the Project in accordance with a manual
acceptable to the Bank (the Project Operations Manual (POM)), which shall
include, inter alia, (a) a detailed description of Project components and their
implementation arrangements; (b) detailed Project cost estimates; (c) detailed
financial management arrangements; (d) roles and responsibilities of staff working
on the Project; and (e) the Matching Grants Manual.
2. 
The Borrower shall not amend, revise or waive, nor allow to be amended, revised
or waived, the provisions of said POM or any part thereof without the Bank's prior
written consent.
3. 
In the event of any inconsistency between the POM and this Agreement, the
provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
C. 
Broadband-for-Development Program Manual
1. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the
Borrower, through GITA, shall carry out Part 1(c) of the Project in accordance
with a manual acceptable to the Bank (the Broadband for Development Program
Manual).
2. 
The Borrower shall not amend, revise or waive, nor allow to be amended, revised
or waived, the provisions of said Broadband for Development Program Manual or
any part thereof without the Bank's prior written consent.
-8-
3. 
In the event of any inconsistency between the Broadband for Development
Program Manual and this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall
prevail.
D. 
Broadband for Development Program
For purposes of carrying out Part 1(c) of the Project, the Borrower, through GITA,
shall:
(a) 
Select and hire a local financial institution satisfactory to the Bank, under
terms of reference set forth in the Broadband for Development Program
Manual, and in accordance with the provisions set forth in Section III of
this Schedule, which shall be responsible for managing any applications
from, and the provision of any BfD Payments to, Eligible Households and
Eligible MSMEs under the Broadband for Development Program;
(b) 
Ensure the provision of training under terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank and set forth in the Broadband for Development Program
Manual, and in accordance with the provisions set forth in Section III of
this Schedule, to Eligible Households and Eligible MSMEs participating
in the Broadband for Development Program; and
(c) 
Enter into appropriate arrangements with service and equipment
providers, including any applicable electronics stores, information
technology device manufacturers, internet service providers, and training
providers, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, and in
accordance with the provisions set forth in Section III of this Schedule for
purposes of assisting the Borrower in the implementation of the
Broadband for Development Program.
E. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
F. 
Sub-Projects
1 .
The Borrower, through GITA, shall make Matching Grants to Eligible MSMEs for
the implementation of Start-up Sub-Projects or Innovation Sub-Projects (each a
"Sub-Project"), in accordance with eligibility criteria and procedures acceptable to
the Bank set forth in the Matching Grants Manual.
2. 
Upon the approval of any given Sub-Project, the Borrower, through GITA, shall
provide a Matching Grant to the corresponding Eligible MSME pursuant to a Sub-
-9-
Grant Agreement on terms and conditions approved by the Bank, which shall
include the following:
(a) 
the Borrower, through GITA, shall obtain rights adequate to protect its
interests and those of the Bank, including the right to:
(i) 
suspend or terminate use of the proceeds of a Matching Grant, or
obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount of the Matching
Grant then withdrawn, upon failure by the pertinent Eligible
MSME to perform any of its obligations under the corresponding
Sub-Grant Agreement; and
(ii) 
require each Eligible MSME to:
(A) 
carry out the pertinent Sub-Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
economic, financial, managerial, environmental and
social standards and practices satisfactory to the Bank,
including in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines;
(B) 
provide, promptly as needed, the resources required for
the purpose;
(C) 
procure the goods and services to be financed out of a
Matching Grant in accordance with the provisions of this
Agreement, and the provisions set forth in Section III of
this Schedule;
(D) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate, in accordance with indicators
acceptable to the Bank, the progress of the pertinent Sub-
Project and the achievement of its objectives;
(E) 
(1) 
maintain a financial management system and
prepare financial statements in accordance with
consistently 
applied 
accounting 
standards
acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate
to 
reflect 
the 
operations, 
resources 
and
expenditures related to the Sub-Project; and
(2) 
at the Bank's or the Borrower's appropriate
institutions', including GITA's, request, have
such financial statements audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance
-10-
with consistently applied auditing standards
acceptable to the Bank, and promptly furnish the
statements as so audited to the Borrower and the
Bank;
(F) 
enable the Borrower's appropriate institutions, including
GITA, and the Bank to inspect the respective Sub-Project,
its operation and any relevant records and documents; and
(G) 
prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank, all such
information as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably
request relating to the foregoing.
3. 
The Borrower, through GITA, shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations
under each Sub-Grant Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive,
terminate or fail to enforce any Sub-Grant Agreement, or any of its provisions.
G. 
Safeguards
(a) 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance
with the provisions of the ESMF, and any environmental management
plans (EMPs) prepared thereunder.
(b) 
The Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the ESMF, any
EMP(s), as applicable, or any provision thereof, without the prior approval
of the Bank.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower, through GITA, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the
Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one month after the end of the period
covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1 .
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
-11-
2. 
The Borrower, through GITA, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than
forty-five (45) days after the end of each semester, interim unaudited financial
reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to
the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through GITA, shall have its Financial Statements audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each
audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the
Borrower. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
I. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan:
-12-
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set
forth below:
(i) 
"Open competitive procedures" (i.e. "public tender") shall be the
default rule. A single envelope procedure shall be used for the
submission of goods, works, or non-consulting services.
(ii) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely
circulated national daily newspaper allowing a minimum of thirty
(30) 
days for the preparation 
and 
submission of bids.
Advertisements published in foreign language newspapers shall
be in compliance with such a 30-day-minimum in number of days
for bids preparation and submission.
(iii) 
Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms. 
If
registration is required, it shall not be denied to eligible bidders
for reasons unrelated to their capacity and resources to
successfully perform the contract (e.g., mandatory membership in
professional organizations, classification, etc.). Post-qualification
shall be conducted to verify that the bidder has the capability and
resources to successfully perform the contract.
(iv) 
Borrower-owned enterprises in Georgia shall be eligible to
participate in bidding only if they can establish that they are
legally and financially autonomous, operate under commercial
law and are not a dependent agency of the Borrower. Borrower-
owned enterprises will be subject to the same bid and performance
security requirements as other bidders.
(v) 
Procuring entities shall use the appropriate Bank's sample bidding
documents, including pre-qualification 
documents, 
for the
procurement of goods, works, or non-consulting services, and
such documents shall contain draft contract and conditions of
contract including clauses on fraud and corruption, audit and
publication of award, all acceptable to the Bank.
(vi) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for
submission of bids. Bidder's representatives shall be permitted to
attend the bid opening.
(vii) 
Extension of bid validity shall be allowed once only for not more
than thirty (30) days. No further extensions shall be requested
without the prior approval of the Bank.
-13-
(viii) 
Evaluation of bids shall be based on quantifiable criteria expressed
in monetary terms as defined in the bidding documents, no merit
point system and no domestic preference shall be used in the
evaluation of bids. Contracts shall be awarded to qualified bidders
having submitted the lowest evaluated substantially responsive
bid and no negotiations shall be carried out prior to contract
award.
(ix) 
Civil works contracts of long duration (e.g. more than eighteen
(18) months) shall contain an appropriate price adjustment clause,
acceptable to the Bank.
(x) 
No bid shall be rejected purely on the basis that the bid price is
higher than the estimated budget for that procurement. All bids
shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Bank's
prior concurrence.
(b) 
Direct Contracting;
(c) 
Shopping;
(d) 
Procurement in Loans to Financial Intermediary Institutions and Entities
(commercial practices); and
(e) 
Community Participation in Procurement.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; (d) Selection based on Consultants'
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Procedures set
forth in paragraphs 5.1 - 5.5 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of
Individual Consultants; (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants; and (h) Selection of Consultants in Loans to Financial
Intermediary Institutions and Entities (commercial practices).
-14-
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised
from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant
to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non- 
31,016,000 
100%
consulting services,
consultants' services,
Training and/or Operating
Costs (as the case may be)
for the Project, including
Matching Grants
(excluding Part 1(c) of the
Project).
(2) Goods, non- 
8,884,000 
100%
consulting services,
consultants' services,
Training and/or Operating
Costs (as the case may be)
for Part 1(c) of the Project,
including BfD Payments
-15-
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(3) Front-end Fee 
100,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(4) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar 
Section 2.08(c) of this
premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2 million may be
made for payments made prior to this date but on or after November 1,
2015 (provided, however, that no withdrawal shall be made for payments
made more than one year prior to the date of this Agreement), for Eligible
Expenditures under Category (1); or
(b) 
under Category (2), until the Borrower, through GITA, has prepared and
adopted the Broadband for Development Program Manual in a manner
acceptable to the Bank.
2. 
The Closing Date is April 30, 2021.
-16-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each March 15 and September 15
Beginning September 15, 2031
through September 15, 2039 
5.56%
On March 15, 2040 
5.48%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
-17-
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
-18-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"BfD Payment" means a grant to be made out of the proceeds of the Loan to an
Eligible Household or an Eligible MSME after the Borrower has certified that said
Eligible Household or an Eligible MSME has successfully participated in the
Broadband for Development Program, for purposes of partially financing the
acquisition of electronic equipment and/or the cost related to internet connection
and installation services, as applicable, as well as any applicable training, all
pursuant to the criteria set forth in the Broadband for Development Program
Manual.
3. 
"Broadband for Development Program" means the Borrower's program referred
to in Part 1(b) of the Project.
4. 
"Broadband for Development Program Manual" means the manual, satisfactory to
the Bank, setting forth, inter alia, the eligibility criteria to participate in said
program and the implementation arrangements related thereto, as said manual may
be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
5. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
6. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
7. 
"Eligible Households" means any household (comprised of one or more individual
persons) which meets the criteria set forth in the Broadband for Development
Program Manual to benefit under the Project.
8. 
"Eligible MSMEs" means any micro, small, and medium sized enterprise which
meets the criteria set forth in the Broadband for Development Program Manual and
the Matching Grants Manual (as the case may be) to benefit under the Project.
9. 
"ESMF" means the Borrower's 
Environmental 
and 
Social Management
Framework, publicly disclosed on January 6, 2016, in form and substance
acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the POM, which contains, inter alia:
potential environmental and social impacts; environmental and social mitigation
measures to be taken during the implementation and operation of the Project to
-19-
reduce potential adverse environmental and social effects; and the Borrower's
institutions responsibilities for screening and monitoring activities, as said
framework may be updated from time to time with the Bank's prior written
concurrence
10. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
11. 
"Georgia's Innovation and Technology Agency", or GITA, means the Borrower's
agency created under the MoESD, pursuant to Borrower's government's
Resolution No. 172, dated February 19, 2014.
12. 
"GITA Legislation" means the Borrower's government's Resolution No. 172,
dated February 19, 2014, as may be amended from time to time, subject to the
terms of Section 4.01 of this Agreement
13. 
"Innovation Center" means a small physical space equipped with computers and
broadband internet connection, training facilities, and other related equipment and
services as described in the POM.
14. 
"Innovation Hub" means a physical space outfitted with computers and broadband
internet connection, other related office equipment, and conference and training
facilities, all pursuant to criteria set out in the POM.
15. 
"Innovation Sub-Project" means an investment or activity for productive purposes,
with the objective of promoting the development of product, technological or
business process innovations, as well as technology adoption, by an Eligible
MSME, and which meets the criteria set forth in the Matching Grants Manual.
16. 
"Matching Grants" means a grant or non-reimbursable contribution (subsidy)
made or to be made out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Eligible MSME, for the
purpose of financing a portion of the cost of goods, non-consulting services,
consultants' services, Training, and Operating Costs of a Start-up Sub-Project or
an Innovation Sub-Project, as described in the POM.
17. 
"Matching Grants Manual" means the manual, satisfactory to the Bank (which is
included in the POM), setting forth the procedures for selecting, appraising,
approving and supervising of Sub-Projects, and the terms and conditions of
Matching Grants, including, Matching Grants amounts and Eligible MSME
matching amounts, as said manual may be amended from time to time with the
agreement of the Bank.
18. 
"MoESD" means the Borrower's Ministry of Economy and Sustainable
Development, or any successor thereto.
-20-
19. 
"Operating Costs" means the reasonable incremental expenses incurred on account
of implementation of the Project, for office supplies and other consumable goods,
office rent, internet connection and communications costs, support for information
systems, translation costs, bank charges, utilities, reasonable travel, transportation,
per diem, accommodation costs (lodging), and other reasonable expenditures
directly associated with the implementation of the Project, as agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank on the basis of semi-annual budgets acceptable to the Bank,
excluding salaries of the Borrower's civil servants.
20. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
21. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
January 29, 2016 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines
and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
22. 
"Project Operations Manual" or "POM" means the Borrower's manual referred to
in Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as said manual may be amended
from time to time, with the agreement of the Bank.
23. 
"Research and Innovation Council" means the Borrower's council which oversees
research and innovation initiatives of the Borrower, chaired by the Prime Minister
of the Borrower and established pursuant to the Borrower's government's
Resolution No. 32, dated February 03, 2015, and which includes key ministers and
other stakeholders.
24. 
"Start-up Sub-Project" means an investment or activity for productive purposes,
with the objective of stimulating development of a new innovative start-up/early-
stage Eligible MSME, and which meets the criteria set forth in the Matching Grants
Manual.
25. 
"Sub-Grant Agreement" means the agreements referred to in Section I.F.2 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with
the agreement of the Bank.
26. 
"Sub-Project" means indistinctively, an Innovation Sub-Project or a Start-up Sub-
Project.
27. 
"Training" means expenditures (other than for consultants' services), incurred
during the implementation of the Project, based on periodic budgets acceptable to
the Bank, for: (i) reasonable travel, room, board and per diem expenditures
incurred by trainers and trainees in connection with their training; (ii) course fees;
-21-
(iii) training/workshop facility and equipment rentals; and (iv) training material
preparation, acquisition, reproduction and distribution expenses not otherwise
covered under this definition.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1 .
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan
amount at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement
(the "Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective
dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan
Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-
annually in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified
in the Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties
-22-
to the Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions,
including (but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance,
interest, the Front-end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default
Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a
Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread
Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount
payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
