OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8643-ME
Loan Agreement
(Additional Financing for the Institutional Development and
Agriculture Strengthening Project)
between
MONTENEGRO
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
,2016
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8643-ME
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
6O,2 
f 4 
, 2016, between
MONTENEGRO 
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing
additional financing for activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix
to this Agreement). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of three million Euro (EUR 3,000,000),
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement
("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided,
that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the
General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment
-2-
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 1 and November 1 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through MARD in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that
the Project Operational Manual has been updated by the Borrower in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank.
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE V- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Stanka Dragojevica 2
81000 Podgorica
Montenegro
Facsimile:
382 20 224 450
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at Podgorica, Montenegro, as of the day and year first above written.
MONTENEGRO
By:
Authorized Representat e
Name:,~c 
ok>~
Title: " t 
< 
LLjL 
0F
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT
By:
'Authorized Representative
Name:_ 
__
Title:
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) improve the delivery of government
assistance for sustainable agriculture and rural development in a manner consistent with
the EU's pre-accession requirements; (ii) increase the experience of the Borrower's
authorities in administering Rural Development Grants in accordance with EU-IPARD
core rules; and (iii) support a selected number of Agricultural Holdings and Food
Establishments in upgrading towards EU standards.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A. 
Strengthening MARD's Rural Development Program
1. 
Increasing Rural Development Funding for Target Measures and Areas:
Provision of Rural Development Grants to Beneficiaries to support target measures
and areas as provided in the Manual of Rules and Procedures, including, inter alia: (a)
piloting a direct payment scheme for Rural Development Grants compatible with EU
regulation; and (b) implementing a monitoring system for said payment scheme.
2. 
Strengthening Institutional Capacity:
Provision of technical assistance, Training, goods and works to, inter alia: (a) carry
out surveys on Beneficiaries' satisfaction in relation with Rural Development Grants; (b)
carry out awareness campaigns on Rural Development Grants; (c) strengthen the
Borrower's capacity to support potential Beneficiaries in meeting standards, developing
business plans, and preparing applications for Rural Development Grants; and (d)
strengthen the Borrower's capacity to develop a record keeping system for local farmers
and promote agri-environment approaches for rural development.
Part B. 
Strengrthening MARD's Administrative and Management Capacity
1. 
Administering EU-compatible agriculture and rural development support
programs:
Provision of technical assistance, Training, goods and works to: (a) establish
within MARD a Managing Authority compatible with EU regulation and responsible for
planning and evaluating the Borrower's rural development program, including through
agri-environment approaches; (b) support a Paying Agency compatible with EU relevant
requirements; and (c) prepare and implement the Systematization Plan, including the
refurbishment and/or construction of facilities, as deemed necessary under such Plan.
-6-
2. 
Modernizing Agriculture Information Management Systems:
Provision of technical assistance, Training, goods and works to help build key
components of the Borrower's IACS, including, inter alia, software applications, hardware
and relevant implementation procedures.
Part C. 
Support for Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
Strengthening the Borrower's Project management, monitoring and evaluation
capacity through the provision of goods and consultant services, including Project auditing,
Training, and financing of Operating Costs.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, throughout the duration of the Project, the Project
Steering Committee with a composition and terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank.
2. 
The Borrower shall maintain, throughout the duration of the Project, the Project
Management Team with a composition, staff, resources and terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank.
3. 
The TSU shall be responsible for procurement, financial management and
disbursement activities under the Project in accordance with the provisions of this
Agreement, the Project Operational Manual, the Manual of Rules and Procedures,
the Procurement Plan, and the MOU and, to this end, the Borrower shall maintain,
throughout the duration of the Project, the TSU with a composition, staff, resources
and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
4. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with this Agreement, the
Project Operational Manual and the Manual of Rules and Procedures, and shall not
amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provision of said Manuals without
the prior written approval of the Bank.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Sub-projects
1. 
Sub-projects under Part A.1 of the Project shall be selected, appraised,
implemented and evaluated in accordance with the principles, procedures and
requirements set forth in the Manual of Rules and Procedures, Procurement and
Consultant Guidelines, Anti-Corruption Guidelines, and the ESMF.
2. 
The Borrower shall provide each Rural Development Grant under a Rural
Development Grant Agreement with the respective Beneficiary on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include the following:
(a) 
the Rural Development Grant shall be denominated in EUR; and
-8-
(b) 
the Borrower shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and those
of the Bank, including the right to:
(i) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to use the
proceeds of the Rural Development Grant, or obtain a refund of
all or any part of the amount of the Rural Development Grant,
upon the Beneficiary's failure to perform any of its obligations
under the Rural Development Grant Agreement; and
(ii) 
require each Beneficiary to: (A) carry out its Sub-project with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
economic, financial, managerial, environmental and social
standards and practices satisfactory to the Bank, including in
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines
applicable to recipients of loan proceeds other than the Borrower,
and the ESMF; (B) provide, promptly as needed, the resources
required for the purpose; (C) procure the goods, works and
services to be financed out of the Rural Development Grant in
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, and the
Procurement and Consultant Guidelines; (D) maintain policies
and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate in
accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the progress of
the Sub-project and the achievement of its objectives; (E) (1)
maintain a financial management system and prepare financial
statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting
standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the
Sub-project; and (2) at the Bank's or the Borrower's request, have
such financial statements audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, and promptly furnish
the statements as so audited to the Borrower and the Bank; (F)
enable the Borrower and the Bank to inspect the Sub-project, its
operation and any relevant records and documents; and (G)
prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such
information as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably request
relating to the foregoing.
3. 
The Borrower shall thereafter exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under
each Rural Development Grant Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
-9-
D. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the EA, the RPF and
the ESMF, as applicable, and shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive
any of their provisions without the prior written approval of the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that no Loan proceeds are used to finance: (a) any new
irrigation systems or extension of existing irrigation systems; (b) any agri-
processing or other activities which could result in increased contamination of
international water bodies; or (c) purchase of pesticides.
3. 
For purposes of Part B. 1(c) of the Project and prior to the commencement of works
for each proposed site, the Borrower shall: (a) submit to the Bank for its approval:
(i) the proposed site for said works and, where required by the EA and/or RPF, the
related site-specific environmental management plan, land acquisition and/or
resettlement plan and checklist, said site-specific plans and checklist to be in form
and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) the proposed contract for said
works to ensure that the provisions of said site-specific plans and checklist are
adequately included in said contract; and (b) ensure that such works are carried out
in accordance with the Resettlement Policy Framework.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to
the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the period covered by
such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of
each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering
the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
- 10 -
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower,
commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal was made under the
Preparation Advance for the Project. The audited Financial Statements for each
such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the
end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1 .
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1 .
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive
Bidding, subject to modifications set forth in paragraph 3 below; (b) Shopping;
(c) Direct Contracting; (d) Methods or Commercial Practices which have been
found acceptable to the Bank; and (e) Community Participation procedures which
have been found acceptable to the Bank.
-11 -
3. 
Modifications to the Borrower's National Competitive Bidding Procedures:
(i) 
Registration: (a) bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms;
(b) where registration is required, bidders: (i) shall be allowed a
reasonable time to complete the registration process; and (ii) shall not be
denied registration for reasons unrelated to their capability and resources
to successfully perform the contract, which shall be verified through post-
qualification.
(ii) 
Eligibility: foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding, and no
preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders.
(iii) 
Procedures: "Open procedures" shall be followed in all cases. Invitations
to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national daily
newspaper, allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days for the preparation
and submission of bids.
(iv) 
Pre-qualification: when pre-qualification shall be required for large or
complex works, invitations to pre-qualify for bidding shall be advertised
in at least one (1) widely circulated national daily newspaper a minimum
of thirty (30) days prior to the deadline for the submission of pre-
qualification applications. Minimum experience, technical and financial
requirements shall be explicitly stated in the pre-qualification documents.
(v) 
Participation by government-owned enterprises: government-owned
enterprises in Montenegro shall be eligible to participate in bidding only
if they can establish that they are legally and financially autonomous,
operate under commercial law and are not a dependent agency of the
government. Such enterprises shall be subject to the same bid and
performance security requirements as other bidders.
(vi) 
Bidding documents: procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard
bidding documents for the procurement of works which shall contain draft
contract and conditions of contract, satisfactory to the Bank.
(vii) 
Submission of bids: bidders may, at their option, deliver bids either in
person, by courier service, or by mail at any time prior to the deadline set
the submission of bids.
(viii) 
Bid opening and bid evaluation: bids shall be opened in public and, if
two envelopes are submitted for technical and price components, both
shall be opened simultaneously. The time for the bid opening shall be the
same as for the deadline for receipt of bids or immediately thereafter, and
shall be announced, together with the place for bid opening, in the
solicitation documents. Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict
- 12 -
adherence to the monetarily quantifiable criteria declared in the bidding
documents. Extension of bid validity shall be allowed once only for not
more than thirty (30) days. No further extensions should be requested
without the prior approval of the Bank. Contracts shall be awarded to
qualified bidders having submitted the lowest evaluated substantially
responsive bid. Negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest
evaluated bidder or any other bidder.
(ix) 
Price adjustment: civil works contracts of long duration (e.g. more than
eighteen (18) months) shall contain an appropriate price adjustment
clause.
(x) 
Rejection of bids: all bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited
without the Bank's prior concurrence.
(xi) 
Contracts: all contracts shall be in writing, signed and stamped by
authorized signatories of the purchaser and the supplier, and shall contain
identical terms and conditions of contract to those included in the tender
documents.
(xii) 
Securities: bid securities shall not exceed two percent (2%) of the
estimated cost of the contract; performance securities shall not exceed ten
percent (10%). No advance payments shall be made to contractors without
a suitable advance payment security. The wording of all such securities
shall be included into the bidding documents and be acceptable to the
Bank.
(xiii) 
Right to inspect and audit: each contract financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall provide that the suppliers, contractors and subcontractors
shall permit the Bank, at its request, to inspect their accounts and records
relating to the procurement and performance of the contract and to have
said accounts and records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. The
deliberate and material violation by the supplier, contractor or
subcontractor of such provision may amount to obstructive practice.
(xiv) 
Fraud and Corruption: the Bank shall declare a firm or individual
ineligible, either indefinitely or for a stated period, to be awarded a
contract financed by the Bank, if it at any time determines that the firm or
individual has, directly or through an agent, engaged in corrupt,
fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in competing for,
or in executing, a contract financed by the World Bank Group.
- 13 -
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan: (a) Selection under a Fixed Budget; (b) Least Cost Selection;
(c) Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications; (d) Selection of Individual
Consultants; and (e) Single-source procedures for the Selection of Individual
Consultants.
D. 
Procurement of Operating Costs
Incremental expenditures included in the Operating Costs category can be
procured in accordance with the established Borrower's administrative procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
E. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised
from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant
to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
- 14 -
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Category 
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in Euro) 
financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Rural Development Grants 
800,000 
100%
under Part A. 1 of the Project
(2) Goods, works, non- 
2,192,500 
100%
consulting services,
consultants' services,
Training and Operating
Costs for the Project
(3) Front-end Fee 
7,500 
Amount payable
pursuant to Section
2.03 of this Agreement
in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(4) Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
0 
Amount due pursuant
Rate Collar premium 
to Section 2.08(c) of
this Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
300
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; or
(b) 
for expenditures under Category (1) unless the Borrower has approved the
Manual of Rules and Procedures in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank.
2. 
The Closing Date is March 30, 2019.
- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
November 1, 2021 
3.91%
May 1, 2022 
4.01%
November 1, 2022 
4.11%
May 1, 2023 
4.21%
November 1, 2023 
4.32%
May 1, 2024 
4.42%
November 1, 2024 
4.53%
May 1, 2025 
4.65%
November 1, 2025 
4.76%
May 1, 2026 
4.88%
November 1, 2026 
5.01%
May 1, 2027 
5.13%
November 1, 2027 
5.26%
May 1, 2028 
5.39%
November 1, 2028 
5.52%
May 1, 2029 
5.66%
November 1, 2029 
5.80%
May 1, 2030 
5.95%
November 1, 2030 
6.10%
May 1, 2031 
6.38%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
- 16 -
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of 
such
sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the
adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
- 17 -
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Agricultural Holdings" means any production unit, individually managed,
involved in primary agricultural productions either as a main or secondary business
activity and located in the Borrower's territory.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
3. 
"Beneficiary" means a recipient of a Rural Development Grant under Part A. 1 of
the Project, and includes private agricultural holdings, producer organizations,
agricultural cooperatives, small and medium sized enterprises, NGOs and tourist
associations, all selected in accordance with criteria and procedures set forth in the
Manual of Rules and Procedures, and "Beneficiaries" means more than one such
Beneficiary.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
5. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
6. 
"EA" or "Environmental Assessment" means the assessment dated August 31,
2008, prepared and adopted by the Borrower in connection with the Original
Project and satisfactory to the Bank, consisting of a set of mitigation, monitoring,
and institutional measures (including measures for pest management and aimed to
avoid any negative impact on natural habitats, forests and physical cultural
resources) required for the Project and to be taken to eliminate adverse
environmental impacts, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels, as well
as actions needed to implement said measures, including the measures and
information 
required for the preparation of site-specific environmental
management plans, land acquisition and/or resettlement plans and checklists
referred to in paragraph 3 of Part D of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
7. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the
framework dated June 17, 2008, prepared and adopted by the Borrower in
connection with the Original Project and satisfactory to the Bank, as updated and
re-disclosed on June 24, 2014, consisting of a set of mitigation, monitoring, and
institutional measures (including measures for pest management and aimed to
avoid any negative impact on natural habitats, forests and physical cultural
- 18 -
resources), required for the Project and to be taken to eliminate adverse
environmental and social impacts, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels,
as well as actions needed to implement said measures, including the measures and
information required for the preparation of site-specific environmental and social
management plans.
8. 
"EU" means the European Union.
9. 
"EU-IPARD" means the European Union Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance
for Rural Development relating to the first and second programming periods.
10. 
"Food Establishments" means any establishment handling, preparing, processing
or producing food products (but excluding restaurants and food retailers) located
in the Borrower's territory.
11. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
12. 
"IACS" means the European Union's Integrated Administrative and Control
System aimed at ensuring that transactions financed by the European Agricultural
Guarantee Fund are actually carried out and executed correctly, and to prevent and
deal with any irregularities.
13. 
"Managing Authority" means the unit established on October 27, 2011, through
Decision No. 03-7161/4 issued by the Borrower's Government.
14. 
"Manual of Rules and Procedures" means the manual describing the procedures
for implementing the Rural Development Grants under Part A. 1 of the Project, to
be approved by the Borrower pursuant to Section IV.B. 1(b) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and including, inter alia: (a) adequate procedures and controls relating
to eligibility, evaluation, selection, procurement and flow of funds for Rural
Development Grants, with a view to ensure use of funds for intended purposes;
and (b) adequate environmental and social safeguard measures.
15. 
"MARD" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
and includes any successor thereto.
16. 
"MOU" means a Memorandum of Understanding, dated January 16, 2009, between
the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and MARD, satisfactory to the Bank, defining
the roles and obligations of the parties in the implementation of the Project.
17. 
"Operating Costs" means the incremental expenses incurred by the TSU on account
of Project related communication and office supplies and the incremental expenses
incurred by the PMT on account of the Project management, monitoring and
evaluation, which may include the maintenance of a vehicle (including fuel costs),
-19-
costs of office and equipment rental and maintenance, translation and
interpretation, communication, printing and publications, supplies, local travel
costs and field trip expenses (including per diem), reasonable bank charges, and
other miscellaneous costs directly associated with the Project implementation, all
based on periodic budgets acceptable to the Bank.
18. 
"Original Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement for the Institutional
Development and Agriculture Strengthening Project between the Borrower and the
Bank, dated May 27, 2009, as subsequently amended (Loan No. 7716-ME).
19. 
"Original Project" means the Montenegro Institutional Development and
Agricultural Strengthening Project, described in the Original Loan Agreement.
20. 
"Paying Agency" means the body, established on October 27, 2011 through
Decision No. 03-7161/4 issued by the Borrower's Government and responsible
for, inter alia: (i) processing aid applications; (ii) authorizing and executing
payments in line with the eligibility criteria defined in the Manual of Rules and
Procedures; (iii) organizing on-the-spot ex-ante and ex-post controls; and (iv)
carrying out internal audits.
21. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
22. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
May 20, 2016 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
23. 
"PMT" means the Project Management Team established by MARD on March 13,
2008, and responsible for the overall implementation, coordination, monitoring
and evaluation of the Project.
24. 
"Project Operational Manual" means the manual prepared in connection with the
Original Project, to be updated by the Borrower pursuant to Section 4.01 of this
Agreement and describing the procedures for Project implementation, including,
inter alia: (a) procedures governing staffing, procurement, accounting, financial
management, including adequate measures for procurement and forensic audits,
environmental 
and 
social 
safeguards, 
and 
monitoring 
and 
evaluation
arrangements; and (b) the financial management arrangements.
25. 
"Project Steering Committee" means the Project Steering Committee chaired by
the MARD and established on February 15, 2010, through Ministerial Resolution
320/10-0201-4114 issued by the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development
for the purposes of overall Project oversight.
- 20 -
26. 
"RPF" or "Resettlement Policy Framework" means the framework dated
November 14, 2008, prepared and adopted by the Borrower in connection with the
Original Project and satisfactory to the Bank, which establishes the potential
resettlement and compensation principles, organizational arrangements and design
criteria to be applied to project implementation in compliance with the laws of
Montenegro and the Bank's safeguards policy on involuntary resettlement.
27. 
"Rural Development Grant" means a grant made or proposed to be made by the
Borrower to a Beneficiary under Part A. 1 of the Project; and "Rural Development
Grants" means more than one such grant.
28. 
"Rural Development Grant Agreement" means the agreement entered into between
the Borrower and a Beneficiary according to terms and conditions set forth in
paragraph 2 of Part C of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time by its parties.
29. 
"Sub-project" means a sub-project selected and approved by the Borrower to be
financed by a Rural Development Grant in accordance with the criteria and
procedures set forth in the Manual of Rules and Procedures.
30. 
"Systematization Plan" means the action plan for the reorganization of agriculture
sector institutions approved by the Borrower's Government on January 29, 2016
through Resolution No. 08-67 to bring its institutional framework more in line with
EU requirements, as the same may be subsequently amended by MARD from time
to time.
31. 
"Training" means Project related study tours, training courses, seminars,
workshops and other training activities, not included under goods or service
providers' contracts, including training materials, space and equipment rental,
travel, accommodation and per diem costs of trainees and trainers, trainers' fees,
and other training related miscellaneous inputs.
32. 
"TSU" means the Technical Services Unit within the Borrower's Ministry of
Finance.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
- 21 -
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. 
The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
