LOAN NUMBER 8583-PE
Loan Agreement
(Boosting Human Capital and Productivity Development Policy Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF PERU
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
rl__, 
201(
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
f'j ( 
, 201 
, entered into between the REPUBLIC OF
PERU ("Borrower") and the NTERNATIONAL BANK -FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to provide this financing on
the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program
and which are described in Section I of Schedule I to this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower's
maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework. 
The Borrower and the Bank
therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of one billion two hundred and fifty million Dollars
($1,250,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than sixty
(60) days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a stand-by fee on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at
the rate of one-half of one percent (0.50%) per annum. The stand-by fee shall accrue from
the Effective Date to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Loan Account or cancelled. The stand-by fee shall be payable semi-annually in
arrears on each Payment Date.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
-2-
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and sucl non-payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e)
of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
2.07. 
(a) 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this Section, the principal amount
of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
(b) 
The Borrower may at the time of requesting a Withdrawal also request repayment
provisions different from those set out in Schedule 2 to this Agreement for such
Withdrawal, provided that: (i) the average maturity of such Withdrawal does not
exceed twenty (20) years from the Withdrawal Date and the final maturity of such
Withdrawal does not exceed thirty five (35) years from the Withdrawal Date (or
such other average maturity and/or final maturity as may be generally applicable
to loans made by the Bank to the Borrower at the time of such agreement); and (ii)
such repayment provisions have been agreed between the Borrower and the Bank
prior to the Withdrawal Date of such Withdrawal.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest
rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the
Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
2.09. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 of Section II of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall promptly
furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this Article II as the Bank
may, from time to time, reasonably request.
-3-
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this
end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework and the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for
its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section,
the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have the
effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action taken
under the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule I to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a situation has
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be
carried out.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the event
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of sixty
(60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consist of the following, namely, that the Bank
is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program and
with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance, provided that the
Borrower's General Director of Indebtedness and Public Treasury may, by him or herself,
represent the Borrower to sign amendments and/or notices to this Agreement which are
considered of an administrative and non-financial nature. The signing by such General
Director of an amendment and/or notice shall constitute a representation by the Borrower
-4-
that any such amendment and/or notice is considered to be administrative and non-financial
in nature.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Jr. Junin 319
Lima, Per
Facsimile:
(511) 626-9921
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bapk for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
AGREED at 
O 
eA.-A 
,as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF PE
By 
/ 
1
Authoz 
Representative
Name: 
kLopf?c ISE&O,4 
VASI
Title: 
rt45,F* 
oc ECLAIIN YP1V)TtPfS
INTERNATIONAL B 
K FOR
RECONSTRUCTION 
D DEV 
OPMENT
By:
Autrorized 
e resentative
Name: 
vi' 
A1L
Title: 
V t C -? 
,i
-5-
SCHEDULE1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section 1. 
Actions under the Program
Actions Taken Under the Program. The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program
include the following:
A. 
Enhancing the Education Policy Framework to Enable Better Quality of Skills
1 .
The Borrower, through MINEDU, has increased the teaching quality of education in
economically disadvantaged areas by introducing a balanced and equitable system for
recruiting and promoting qualified teachers and principals within the merit-based Teaching
Career 
System, 
as 
evidenced 
by 
Resolution 
of 
the 
General 
Secretariat
No. 
813-2014-MINEDU 
of June 
16, 
2014 
and 
Vice-Ministerial 
Resolution
No. 021-2015-MINEDU of May 15, 2015.
2. 
The Borrower, through MINEDU, has improved the school graduates' learning outcomes
by: (i) introducing an extended school-day model for secondary education that strengthens
the teaching of math, science, English language, and soft skills; and (ii) creating
performance-based financial incentives for subnational government institutions that
manage schools to improve the learning environment in schools, as evidenced by
Ministerial Resolution No. 451-2014-MINEDU of September 30, 2014 and Ministerial
Resolution No. 591-2014-MINEDU of December 30, 2014.
3. 
The Borrower, through MINEDU, has created the General Directorate for School
Infrastructure within MINEDU, to foster the participation of the private sector in school
infrastructure upgrading, and to separate the functions of policy formulation and planning
from construction, as evidenced by Supreme Decree No. 001-2015-MINEDU published
in the Official Gazette on January 31, 2015.
4. 
The Borrower, through MINEDU, has improved the framework of university education
by creating the National Superintendence of University Education (Superintendencia
Nacional de Educaci6n Universitaria - SUNEDU) and the General Directorate of
University Education (Direccidn General de Educaci6n Superior Universitaria -
DIGESU) within MINEDU, to guarantee that university programs and institutions meet
quality standards and to lead the implementation of the university reform, as evidenced by
Law No. 30220 published in the Official Gazette on July 9, 2014; Supreme Decree
No. 012-2014-MINEDU published in the Official Gazette on December 31, 2014; and
Decree No. 001-2015-MINEDU published in the Official Gazette on January 31, 2015.
Facilitating Entry, Operation and Exit of Firms
5. 
The Borrower has adopted policies for the facilitation of business entry of firms by:
(i) integrating online registration procedures into the system of public registries under the
management of SUNARP; (ii) creating financial incentives for large municipalities to
deliver operating licenses faster than required by Law No. 28,976 of February 4", 2007;
-6-
and (iii) introducing a more effective risk-based classification system for technical safety
inspections for new firms, as evidenced by the issuance of Supreme Decree
No. 007-2014-JUS published in the Official Gazette on September 13, 2014, Supreme
Decree No. 015-2014-EF of January 16, 2014 and Legislative Decree No. 1200 published
in the Official Gazette on September 23, 2015.
6. 
The Borrower has taken measures to limit the discretion of all government bodies to
impose regulations and administrative procedures outside the national legal framework,
by strengthening INDECOPI's power to sanction non-compliance with the national legal
framework, as evidenced by the enacting of Law No. 30230 published in the Official
Gazette on July 12, 2014, modifying Law 27444 of April 10, 2001 (Ley de Procedimiento
Administrativo General) and Legislative Decree No. 1212 published in the Official
Gazette on September 24, 2015.
7. 
The Borrower has taken measures to simplify the withholding regime for VAT payments
to reduce operating costs for firms, as evidenced by the enactment of Law 30230 published
in the Official Gazette on July 12, 2014, modifying Law 29173 of December 23, 2007.
8. 
The Borrower has adopted policies to facilitate business exit of firms by: (i) introducing
electronic auctions for asset foreclosures in order to reduce costs and risks of insolvency;
(ii) creating the registry for judicial delinquent debtors, simplifying the legal framework
for insolvency; and (iii) modifying the general law of the insolvency system in terms of
quality and registry of administrators and liquidators, simplification of administrative
procedures under the responsibility of INDECOPI, and the system of offenses and
penalties, as evidenced by the enactment of Law No. 30229 of July 12, 2014, Law 30201
published in the Official Gazette on May 28, 2014 and Legislative Decree 
No. 1189
published in the Official Gazette on August 21, 2015.
Reducing Transactions Costs in Trade
9. 
The Borrower has improved the customs regime through: (i) the modernization of the
Borrower's Custom Law enacted by Legislative Decree No. 1053 published in the
Borrower's Official Gazette on June 27, 2008 by introducing key elements of the revised
Kyoto Convention on the Simplification and Harmonization of Customs Procedures of
February 3, 2006 and the Bali WTO Trade Facilitation Agreement of November 27, 2014,
particularly improving the authorized economic operators regime, and adopting a more
targeted system of fines; and (ii) the elimination of all stamp duties for Customs
Declaration reducing transaction costs and in alignment with the Bali WTO Trade
Facilitation Agreement, as evidenced by the enactment of Legislative Decree No. 1235
published in the Official Gazette on September 26, 2015 and Law 30230 published in the
Official Gazette on July 12, 2014.
10. 
The Borrower has established the National System for Quality and INACAL to enhance
the system of accreditation, standardization and metrology, 
supporting export
competitiveness and access to markets, as evidenced by the enactment of Law No. 30224
published in the Official Gazette on July 11, 2014.
-7-
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by
notice to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from
which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
Amount of the Loan
Allocations 
Allocated
(expressed in Dollars)
Single Withdrawal Tranche 
1,250,000,000
TOTAL AMOUNT 
1,250,000,000
C. 
Payment of Front-end Fee. No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account until
the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee.
D. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds. If, at any time prior to the receipt by the Bank of a request
for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the Bank determines that a review of the
Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework or of its progress in carrying out the
Program is warranted, the Bank shall give notice to the Borrower to that effect. Upon the
giving of such notice, no withdrawals shall be made of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance
unless and until the Bank has notified the Borrower of its satisfaction, after an exchange of
views as described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of said Section 3.01, with: (i) the progress
achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program; and (ii) the adequacy of the
Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
E. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
I. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and
2. 
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower's budget
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
F. 
Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not
be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an
amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the amount
of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be
cancelled.
G. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is February 18, 2019.
7
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on October 15, 2029.
-9-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or international
financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association has financed
or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association has financed or agreed
to finance under another loan, credit, or grant;
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item
112 
Alcoholic beverages
121 
Tobacco, un-manufactured,
tobacco refuse
122 
Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)
525 
Radioactive and associated
materials
667 
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated,
for nuclear reactors
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing
machinery .
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths' or
silversmiths' wares
(including set gems)
971 
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold ores and
concentrates)
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
-10-
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the
Borrower is a party;
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or
coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other
recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower (or other such recipient)
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address such
practices when they occur.
2. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section 11 of this Appendix.
3. 
"INACAL" means Instituto Nacional de Calidad, the Borrower's National Institute of
Quality, established pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 30,224 published in the Official
Gazette on July 11, 2014.
4. 
"INDECOPI" means Instituto Nacional de la Defensa al Consumidor y de la Propiedad
Intelectual, the Borrower's National Institute of Protection to the Consumer and Intelectual
Property, established pursuant to the Borrower's Legislative Decree No. 25868 published
in the Official Gazette on November 24 h, 1992.
5. 
"MEF" means Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas, the Borrower's Ministry of Economy
and Finances.
6. 
"MINEDU" means Ministerio de Educaci6n, the Borrower's Ministry of Education.
7. 
"National System for Quality" means the Sistema Nacional de Calidad, the Borrower's
national system for quality established by Law 30,224 published in the Official Gazette on
July 11, 2014.
8. 
"Official Gazette" means El Peruano, the official gazette of the Borrower.
9. 
"Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to support the
Borrower's efforts to boost human capital and productivity by: (a) enhancing the education
policy framework to enable better quality of skills; (b) facilitating the entry, operation, and
exit of firms; and (c) reducing transaction costs in trade, set forth or referred to in the letter
dated January 12, 2016 from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in
support of the Program during its execution.
10. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category
entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of
Schedule I to this Agreement.
-11-
11. 
"SUNARP" means Superintendencia Nacional de los Registros Publicos, the Borrower's
National Superintendence of Public Registries established pursuant to the Borrower's Law
26366 published in the Official Gazette on October 16, 1994.
12. 
"Teaching Career System" means Carrera Puiblica Magisterial, the Borrower's teaching
career system.
13. 
"VAT" means Value Added Tax.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table bf Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for Withdrawal)
is deleted in its entirety.
3. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in their
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
4. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually
in arrears on each Payment Date."
5. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management; Financial
Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the subsequent Sections in Article V
are renumbered accordingly.
6. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above and
relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
7. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above) is
modified to read as follows:
-12-
"Section 5.06. Plans: Documents; Records
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until
two years after the Closing Date. 
The Borrower shall enable the Bank's
representatives to examine such records."
8. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above) is
modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their respective
obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Loan."
9. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all references to Section numbers and paragraphs are
modified, as necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above.
10. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition
of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the remaining paragraphs accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.0 1(b)."
I1. 
Renumbered paragraph 37 (originally paragraph 36) of the Appendix ("Eligible
Expenditure") is modified to read as follows:
"37. 
"Eligible Expenditure" means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the
Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan Agreement."
12. 
Renumbered paragraph 44 (originally paragraph 43) of the Appendix ("Financial
Statements") is deleted in its entirety.
13. 
In paragraph 46 of the Appendix, the term "Fixed Spread" is modified to read as follows:
"46. 
"Fixed Spread" means, for each Withdrawal, the Bank's fixed spread for the Loan
Currency of the Withdrawal in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, on the
Withdrawal Date, and expressed as a percentage per annum; provided, that: (a) for purposes
of determining the Default Interest Rate, pursuant to Section 3.02 (e), that is applicable to
an amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance on which interest is payable at a Fixed Rate,
the "Fixed Spread" means the Bank's fixed spread in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C.
time, one calendar day prior to the date of the Loan Agreement, for the Currency of
denomination of such amount; (b) for purposes of a Conversion of the Variable Rate based
on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on the Fixed Spread, and for purposes of
fixing the Variable Spread pursuant to Section 4.02, "Fixed Spread" means the Bank's
-13-
fixed spread for the Loan Currency in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time on the
Conversion Date; and (c) upon a Currency Conversion of all or any amount of the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, the Fixed Spread shall be adjusted on the Execution Date in
the manner specified in the Conversion Guidelines"."
14. 
In paragraph 48 of the Appendix, the definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing
the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
15. 
In paragraph 67 of the Appendix, the definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to
read as follows:
"67. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any stand-by fee, any
prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a
Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any
Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
16. 
In paragraph 72 of the Appendix, the definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting
the word "is" and inserting the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word
"interest".
17. 
The defined term "Project" in paragraph 75 of the Appendix is modified to read "Program"
and its definition is modified to read as follows (and all references to "Project" throughout
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to "Program"):
"75. 
"Program" means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of
which the Loan is made."
18. 
In paragraph 94 of the Appendix, the term "Variable Spread" is modified to read as follows:
"94. 
"Variable Spread" means, for each Withdrawal and each Interest Period: (1) the
Bank's standard lending spread for Loans in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time,
on the Withdrawal Date; (2) minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for the Interest
Period, below (or above) the Reference Rate, for six-month deposits, in respect of the
Bank's outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by it to fund loans that carry
interest at a rate based on the Variable Spread; as reasonably determined by the Bank and
expressed as a percentage per annum. In the case of a Loan denominated in more than one
Currency, "Variable Spread" applies separately to each of such Currencies."
19. 
The following definitions of the terms "Withdrawal" and "Withdrawal Date" are inserted
as new paragraphs 98 and 99, respectively:
"98. 
"Withdrawal" means each amount of the Loan withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account pursuant to Section 2.01.
-14-
99. 
"Withdrawal Date" means, for each Withdrawal, the date on which the Bank pays
the Withdrawal.'
