OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8602-AZ
Loan Agreement
(Additional Financing for Third Highway Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated 
,-e 
T 
2016
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8602-AZ
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated Or7t*C-1- 
, 2016, between the REPUBLIC OF
AZERBAIJAN ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT 
("Bank") and (for purposes of paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 hereto)
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION ("Association"), for the purpose of
providing additional financing for the project described in Schedule I to this Agreement
("Project"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred and forty million Dollars
(US$140,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"),
to assist in financing the Project.
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
-2-
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e)
of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are February 1 and August 1 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest
rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the
Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by Azeravtoyol OJSC in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the Subsidiary Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project
is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
3.03. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall:
-3-
(a) 
Maintain, until the completion of the Project, a Project account in Manat on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank, to finance its counterpart contribution to
the expenditures of the Project;
(b) 
Replenish, on a monthly basis, the Project Account up to the amounts required to
cover the Borrower's counterpart contributions to ensure a timely implementation
of the Project, as determined by the Borrower and the Bank; and
(c) 
Ensure that the funds deposited into said Project account shall be used exclusively
to finance the Borrower's counterpart contributions to the Project.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that Azeravtoyol
OJSC charter and/or its structure is modified so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of Azeravtoyol OJSC to perform any of its obligations under the Subsidiary
Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been amended in a manner acceptable to the Bank;
and
(b) 
The Operational Manual has been updated in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
135 Samed Vurgun Street
Baku AZ1022
Republic of Azerbaijan
Telex: 
Facsimile:
142116 BNKSL 
99412 4044720
99412 4044721
-4-
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at Baku, Republic of Azerbaijan, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN
By:
Auforized Representative
Name:
Title:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT/ INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION
By:
Authorized Representative
Name:
Title:
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to contribute to more efficient and safer Baku-Shamakhi
and Yenikend-Shorsulu roads and higher quality road services as part of the general network
upgrading to motorway standard, and to improve the management of the nascent motorway
network.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: Motorway Improvement
1. 
Upgrading the existing two lane Baku-Shamakhi and Yenikend-Shorsulu roads to a four
lane motorway and the related road safety activities, through the carrying out of works and the
provision of goods and consultants' services.
2. 
Provision of consultants' services for the supervision of the above mentioned roads and the
design of priority investments, including preparation of feasibility and design documents for
construction of the M4 Shamakhi-Aghsu road section along its new alignment, to bypass active
landslide and problematic mountainous areas.
Part B: Institutional Development and Support for Motorway Maintenance Reform
1. 
Preparation of a study to explore options for an effective management and operation of
Azerbaijan's motorways, through the provision of consultants' services and training.
2. 
Institutional development of the Azeravtoyol OJSC in motorway operation and
maintenance by: (a) establishing motorway guidelines; (b) providing technical assistance to its
motorway management unit and regional motorway maintenance units; and (c) preparing
motorways management and operations strategy, through the provision of goods, consultants'
services and training.
3. 
Rehabilitation and construction of offices and depots and provision of goods and
equipment for the regional motorway maintenance units.
Part C: Project Management and Institutional Support
Supporting the Project management capacity of the PIU, through the provision of goods,
consultants' services and training, including for: (a) the monitoring and evaluation of the Project;
(b) the update of a road database; (c) the carrying out of road user satisfaction surveys; and (d) the
carrying out of Project audits.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
1. 
All the Borrower's obligations referred to in Section I of Schedule 2 to the Original Loan
Agreement shall apply to the execution of the Project.
2. 
Without limitations upon the provisions of paragraph I of this Section, prior to the carrying
out of any activities to be financed with the proceeds of the Loan, the Borrower shall: (a)
amend the Subsidiary Agreement; and (b) update the Operational Manual, including
updated RPF, EMF, Regional Environmental Review and EIA(s), both for purposes of this
Loan and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and
on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period
of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45)
days after the end of the period covered by such report.
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish
to the Bank, on or about December 31, 2017, a mid-term report integrating the results of
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph I of this Section,
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period
following such date.
3. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the execution of
the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall cause Azeravtoyol OJSC to maintain or cause to be maintained a
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the
General Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause Azeraytoyol OJSC to prepare and furnish to the Bank not later
than forty five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial
reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower cause Azeravtoyol OJSC to have its Financial Statements audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit
-7-
of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later
than six months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1 .
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. 
All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to the
corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the Procurement Guidelines, or
Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services
1 .
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table specifies the
methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which may be used
for goods and works. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which
such methods may be used.
Procurement Method
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following additional provisions:
(i) 
Only open tender, one-stage method may be used. Request for proposal
method shall not be used.
(ii) 
There should be no requirement to submit bid-related documentation
prior to the deadline for submission of bids. Bid opening should take
place immediately after bid submission. Registration shall not be
required as a condition for bidding.
(iii) 
There shall be no eligibility restrictions based on nationality of bidder.
(iv) 
Pre-qualification shall not be used for simple works procurement and
shall be conducted only for large works contracts.
(v) 
Entities in which the State or a State official owns a shareholding of
whatever size shall not be invited to participate in tenders for the
-8-
Procurement Method
Government unless they are and can be shown to be legally and
financially autonomous and they operate under commercial law.
(vi) 
No national preferences may be applied on the basis of the origin of
products or labor.
(vii) 
Joint venture partners shall be jointly and severally liable for their
obligations.
(viii) 
No "participation fee" shall be required of bidders for the purchase of
bidding documents. The only charge shall be equivalent to the cost of
producing (copying) the bidding documents.
(ix) 
In the evaluation of bids, bids may not be rejected where they differ
substantially from the estimated prices calculated by the procuring
entity, except where the bid prices exceed the available budget.
Likewise, in the evaluation of bids, bids may not be rejected simple
because the number of bids received is considered to be low.
(x) 
Rebidding shall not be carried out without prior approval of the Bank.
(xi) 
Works contracts of more than eighteen (18) months' duration shall
include appropriate price adjustment provisions.
(xii) 
Standard bidding documents approved by the Bank shall be used.
(b) Shopping
(c) Direct Contracting
(d) Force Account
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality and
Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table specifies
the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, which may be
used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under
which such methods may be used.
Procurement Method
(a) 
Quality-based Selection
(b) 
Least Cost Selection
(c) 
Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications
(d) 
Single-Source Selection
(e) 
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 through 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines
for the Selection of Individual Consultants
-9-
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank Disbursement
Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as
made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures
in each Category.
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(net of VAT)
(1) Goods, works, 
90%
consultants' services, non- 
139,650,000
consulting services, Training
and Incremental Operating
Costs under the Project
(2) Front-end Fee 
Amount payable pursuant to
350,000 
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(3) 
Interest 
Rate 
Cap 
or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar premium 
Section 2.08(c) of this
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
140000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2019.
-10-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been
fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of
the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct
any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
August 1, 2020 
2,78%
February 1, 2021 
2,85%
August 1, 2021 
2,92%
February 1, 2022 
2,99%
August 1, 2022 
3,07%
February 1, 2023 
3,15%
August 1, 2023 
3,22%
February 1, 2024 
3,30%
August 1, 2024 
3,39%
February 1, 2025 
3,47%
August 1, 2025 
3,56%
February 1, 2026 
3,65%
August 1, 2026 
3,74%
February 1, 2027 
3,83%
August 1, 2027 
3,93%
February 1, 2028 
4,03%
August 1, 2028 
4,13%
February 1, 2029 
4,23%
August 1, 2029 
4,34%
February 1, 2030 
4,44%
August 1, 2030 
4,56%
February 1, 2031 
4,67%
August 1, 2031 
4,79%
February 1, 2032 
4,91%
August 1, 2032 
5,03%
February 1, 2033 
5,02%
-11-
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph
I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which
is the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I
of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all
remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates
falling on or after such date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as
necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of
calculating the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment
Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal
Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph,
if at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date,
the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to
an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency
that is repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the
Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such
amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion
by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge
Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of
the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan
Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount
-12-
denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization
schedule for each such amount.
-13-
SCHEDULE 4
Amendment to the Original Loan Agreement and Financing Agreement
The Borrower and Bank hereby agree to amend the Original Loan Agreement
as follows:
(a) 
All references to the term "ARS" are hereby replaced by the term
"Azeravtoyol OJSC".
(b) 
Section 4.01 is hereby replaced in its entirety by Section 4.01 of this
Agreement.
(c) 
Schedule 1 is hereby replaced in its entirety by Schedule I to this
Agreement.
(d) 
Section I.A.5 of Schedule 2 is hereby amended to read as follows:
"5. The Borrower shall prepare, under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, six (6)
months as of the completion of the works for upgrading the
Baku-Shamakhi and Yenikend-Shorsulu roads under Part A of
the Project, a report on the execution of such works and the
related plan on operations and maintenance of the Baku-
Shamakhi and Yenikend-Shorsulu roads".
(e) 
Section I.D.1 of Schedule 2 is hereby amended to read as follows:
"The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in
accordance with the provisions of the EMF, EIA(s), Regional
Environmental Review, EMP(s), RPF and RAP(s). 
The
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the EMF,
EIA(s), Regional Environmental Review, EMP(s), RPF and/or
RAP(s) or any provision thereof, without the prior approval of
the Bank."
(f) 
The Project closing date is extended until December 31, 2019.
(g) 
The following definitions in Section I of the Appendix are hereby
added to read as follows:
(i) 
"Additional Financing Agreement" means the agreement
between the Borrower and the Bank for purposes of providing
the Additional Financing for the Project."
(ii) 
"Azeravtoyol" 
means 
Azeravtoyol 
Open 
Joint-stock
Company, which is also the Project Implementing Entity,
established as an Open Joint-stock Company by virtue of the
Presidential Decree on the Measures to Improve Management
-14-
of Transport and Road Complex (Decree No. 1992), dated
February 22, 2007, as amended by Decree No. 1659, dated
December 28, 2015, and Decree No. 826, dated March 9,
2016."
(iii) 
"Regional Environmental Review" means the Borrower's
document 
prepared 
to 
provide 
information 
on 
key
environmental and socio-economic risks and issues in the
Project area and in the region as a whole, which were further
detailed and addressed in the site-specific EIAs, dated August
1, 2005 and updated on June 1, 2009."
(h) 
The following definitions in Section I of the Appendix are hereby
amended to read as follows:
(i) 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on
Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects
Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated
October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
(ii) 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection
and Employment of Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January
2011 (revised July 2014).
(iii) 
"EIA(s)" 
means the Borrower's environmental 
impact
assessments, acceptable to the Bank consisting of inter alia:
(i) a description of the site where construction activities are to
be carried out under Part A of the Project and the justification
for said activities; (ii) the actual or potential environmental
impact of the construction activities referred to under sub-
paragraph (i) above; and (iii) an environmental management
plan setting forth adequate mitigating measures and systems
required to monitor the implementation of the construction
activities referred to under sub-paragraph (i) above and to
ensure compliance of such activities with said measures with
a view to limiting any actual and potential adverse
environmental impact.
(iv) 
"EMF" means the Environmental Management Framework,
dated November 16, 2005, and updated on November 18,
2015, outlining the procedures 
for the environmental
screening, management, consultation and disclosure related to
the selection of the road sections under the Project.
(v) 
"Operational Manual" means the operational manual for the
Project adopted by the Borrower and Azeravtoyol OJSC
acceptable to the Bank, outlining, inter alia, the institutional,
-15-
disbursement, procurement, and environmental and social
management arrangements (including the EMF, Regional
Environmental 
Review, 
RPF 
and 
EIA(s)) 
for 
the
implementation of the Project, as the same may be amended
from time to time with approval of the Bank, and such term
includes any schedules to the Operational Manual.
(vi) 
"Procurement 
Guidelines" 
means 
the 
"Guidelines:
Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World
Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
(vii) 
"RPF" means the Resettlement Policy Framework, dated
February 5, 2010, and updated on November 24, 2015,
defining the modalities for land acquisition, resettlement and
rehabilitation of displaced persons under Part A and B.3 of the
Project and describing the policies, procedures, plans and
actions (including the preparation of resettlement action plans,
as needed), and institutional measures related to land
acquisition and other social impacts that may arise during the
Project and other phases related to the Project, and satisfactory
to the Bank.
(viii) 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in
Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as amended
pursuant to Section I.2.(a) of Schedule 2 to the Additional
Financing Agreement, pursuant to which the Borrower shall
make the proceeds of the Loan available to the Azeravtoyol
OJSC.
(i) 
The definition of the term "ARS" is hereby deleted.
2. 
The Republic of Azerbaijan and the Association hereby agree to amend the
Financing Agreement as follows:
(a) 
All references to the term "ARS" are hereby replaced by the term
"Azeravtoyol OJSC".
(b) 
Section 4.01 is hereby replaced in its entirety by Section 4.01 of this
Agreement.
(c) 
Schedule 1 is hereby replaced in its entirety by Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
(d) 
Section I.D.1 of Schedule 2 is hereby amended to read as follows:
"The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in
accordance with the provisions of the EMF, EIA(s), Regional
Environmental Review, EMP(s), RPF and RAP(s). 
The
-16-
Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the EMF,
EIA(s), Regional Environmental Review, EMP(s), RPF and/or
RAP(s) or any provision thereof, without the prior approval of
the Association."
(e) 
The Project closing date is extended until December 31, 2019.
(f) 
The following definitions in Section I of the Appendix are hereby
added to read as follows:
(i) 
"Azeravtoyol" 
means 
Azeravtoyol 
Open 
Joint-stock
Company, which is also the Project Implementing Entity,
established as an Open Joint-stock Company by virtue of the
Presidential Decree on the Measures to Improve Management
of Transport and Road Complex (Decree No. 1992), dated
February 22, 2007, as amended by Decree No. 1659, dated
December 28, 2015, and Decree No. 826, dated March 9,
2016.""
(ii) 
"Regional Environmental Review" means the Recipient's
document 
prepared 
to 
provide 
information 
on 
key
environmental and socio-economic risks and issues in the
Project area and in the region as a whole, which were further
detailed and addressed in the site-specific EIAs, dated August
1, 2005 and updated on June 1, 2009."
(g) 
The following definitions in Section I of the Appendix are hereby
amended to read as follows:
(i) 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on
Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects
Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated
October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
(ii) 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection
and Employment of Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January
2011 (revised July 2014).
(iii) 
"EIA(s)" 
means the Recipient's 
environmental impact
assessments, acceptable to the Association consisting of inter
alia: (i) a description of the site where construction activities
are to be carried out under Part A of the Project and the
justification for said activities; (ii) the actual or potential
environmental impact of the construction activities referred to
under sub-paragraph (i) above; and (iii) an environmental
management plan setting forth adequate mitigating measures
and systems required to monitor the implementation of the
construction activities referred to under sub-paragraph (i)
-17-
above and to ensure compliance of such activities with said
measures with a view to limiting any actual and potential
adverse environmental impact.
(iv) 
"EMF" means the Environmental Management Framework,
dated November 16, 2005, and updated on November 18,
2015, outlining the procedures for the environmental
screening, management, consultation and disclosure related to
the selection of the road sections under the Project.
(v) 
"Operational Manual" means the operational manual for the
Project adopted by the Recipient and Azeravtoyol OJSC
acceptable to the Association, outlining, inter alia, the
institutional, disbursement, procurement, and environmental
and social management arrangements (including the EMF,
Regional Environmental Review, RPF and EIA(s)) for the
implementation of the Project, as the same may be amended
from time to time with approval of the Association, and such
term includes any schedules to the Operational Manual.
(vi) 
"Procurement 
Guidelines" 
means 
the 
"Guidelines:
Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World
Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
-18-
(vii) 
"RPF" means the Resettlement Policy Framework, dated
February 5, 2010, and updated on November 24, 2015,
defining the modalities for land acquisition, resettlement and
rehabilitation of displaced persons under Part A and B.3 of the
Project and describing the policies, procedures, plans and
actions (including the preparation of resettlement action plans,
as needed), and institutional measures related to land
acquisition and other social impacts that may arise during the
Project and other phases related to the Project, and satisfactory
to the Association.
(h) 
The definition of the term "ARS" is hereby deleted.
-19-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Azeravtoyol" means Azeravtoyol Open Joint-stock Company, which is also
the Project Implementing Entity, established as an Open Joint-stock Company
by virtue of the Presidential Decree on the Measures to Improve Management
of Transport and Road Complex (Decree No. 1992), dated February 22, 2007,
as amended by Decree No. 1659, dated December 28, 2015, and Decree No.
826, dated March 9, 2016.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
3. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
4. 
"EIA(s)" means the Borrower's environmental impact assessments, acceptable
to the Bank consisting of inter alia: (i) a description of the site where
construction activities are to be carried out under Part A of the Project and the
justification for said activities; (ii) the actual or potential environmental impact
of the construction activities referred to under sub-paragraph (i) above; and
(iii) an environmental management plan setting forth adequate mitigating
measures and systems required to monitor the implementation of the
construction activities referred to under sub-paragraph (i) above and to ensure
compliance of such activities with said measures with a view to limiting any
actual and potential adverse environmental impact.
5. 
"EMF" means the Environmental Management Framework, dated November
16, 2005, and updated on November 18, 2015, outlining the procedures for the
environmental screening, management, consultation and disclosure related to
the selection of the road sections under the Project.
6. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
7. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the incremental expenses incurred by
the PIU on account of reasonable and necessary activities directly related to
the Project implementation, management and monitoring, including office
supplies, travel and salaries, but excluding the salaries of the civil servants, and
any other expenditures that may be agreed upon by the Bank.
8. 
"Manat" means the currency of the Borrower.
9. 
"Ministry of Finance" means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower or any
successor or successors thereto.
-20-
10. 
"Operational Manual" means the operational manual for the Project adopted
by the Borrower and Azeravtoyol OJSC acceptable to the Bank, outlining, inter
alia, the institutional, disbursement, procurement, and environmental and
social 
management 
arrangements 
(including 
the 
EMF, 
Regional
Environmental Review, RPF and EIA(s)) for the implementation of the Project,
as the same may be amended from time to time with approval of the Bank, and
such term includes any schedules to the Operational Manual.
11. 
"Original Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement between the Borrower
and the Bank for the "Third Highway Project", dated August 11, 2010, as
amended to the date of this Agreement (Loan No 7889-AZ).
12. 
"PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit as established by the Borrower's
internal order (Order No. 59k) dated August 14, 2003 within the Azeravtoyol
OJSC.
13. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods,
Works and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and
Grants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
14. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated February 22, 2016 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall
be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said
paragraphs.
15. 
"Regional Environmental Review" means the Borrower's document prepared
to provide information on key environmental and socio-economic risks and
issues in the Project area and in the region as a whole, which were further
detailed and addressed in the site-specific EIAs, dated August 1, 2005 and
updated on June 1, 2009.
16. 
"RPF" means the Resettlement Policy Framework, dated February 5, 2010, and
updated on November 24, 2015, defining the modalities for land acquisition,
resettlement and rehabilitation of displaced persons under Part A of the Project
and describing the policies, procedures, plans and actions (including the
resettlement action plan), and institutional measures related to land acquisition
and other social impacts that may arise during the Project and other phases
related to the Project, and satisfactory to the Bank.
17. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of
Schedule 2 to the Original Loan Agreement.
18. 
"Training" means the following: (i) reasonable travel, room, board and per
diem expenditures incurred by trainers and trainees in connection with their
training and by non-consulting training facilitators; (ii) course fees; (iii)
training facility rentals; and (iv) training material preparation, acquisition,
reproduction and distribution expenses not otherwise covered under this
paragraph.
-21-
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and
Section numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the
paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan
amount at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end
Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan
Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge
shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment
Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent
paragraphs accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge
specified in the Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.0 1(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan
Parties to the Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General
Conditions, including (but not limited to) any amount of the
Withdrawn 
Loan 
Balance, 
interest, 
the Front-end 
Fee, 
the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any
prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early
-22-
termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if
any), any premium payable upon the establishment of an Interest Rate
Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by
the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and
inserting the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
