OFFICIAL 
DOCUMENTS 
LOA.t'J NUMBER 8598-VN 
Loan Agreement 
(Can Tho Urban Development and Resilience Project) 
between 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
and 
INTERNATIONAL BA "'IK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
Dated 
\ 
' 
( I 
' ) \J .. }-l.t 
. 
• 2016 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
Agreement dated 
}~. -~ ~ 
, 2016, between SOCIALIST REPUBLIC 
OF VIETNAM ("Borrower'') and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). 
WHEREAS: 
(A) the Borrower has requested the Bank/ Association to provide assistance 
towards the financing of the Project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
("Project"); and 
(B) by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
International Development Association ("Financing Agreement''), the 
International Development Association ("Association'') has agreed to provide 
such assistance, on the terms and subject to the conditions provided or referred 
to therein, in amounts equivalent to ninety million six hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SOR 90,600,000) (variously, "Credit" and 
"Financing"). 
NOW THEREFORE the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute 
an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix 
to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II -
LOAN 
2.0 I. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred and twenty five million 
Dollars ($125,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 
of this Agreement ("Loan''), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 
I to this Agreement ("Project"). 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section 
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
- 2 -
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of 
one percent (0.25%) per armum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance. 
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3 .02 ( e) of the General 
Conditions. 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are January I and July l in each year. 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or 
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all 
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the 
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and 
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable 
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of 
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by 
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in 
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines. 
- 3 -
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT 
3 .0 I. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through Can Tho City People's 
Committee in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and Can Tho City People's Committee. 
(b) 
The Financing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness (other than the effectiveness of this 
Agreement) have been fulfilled. 
4.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely the Subsidiary 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and Can Tho City 
People's Committee and is legally binding upon the Borrower and Can Tho City 
People's Committee in accordance with its terms. 
4.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Governor, or a Deputy Governor, of State 
Bank of Vietnam. 
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is: 
State Bank of Vietnam 
49 Ly Thai To 
Hanoi, Vietnam 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
VlETBANK 
412248 
Hanoi 
NHTWVT 
Facsimile: 
(84-4) 3825 0612 
-4-
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is: 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Cable address: 
INIBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 
Telex: 
248423(MCD or 
64145{MCD 
Facsimile: 
1-202-4 77-6391 
AGREED at Hanoi, Socialist Republic of Vietnam, as of the day and 
year first above written. 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
By 
Authorized Representative 
Name: _LE -~Nit_-tlUN G-
Title: -C}i.VU-l'\Qt..-___ _ 
INTERNATIONAL BAAX FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPME?-.'T 
By 
/7/. (y~ 
/10C-~~F 
---
Authorized Representative 
Name: _A cttA tJv r 0 
Title: _t\:t~ CP1.1.tt:v{~ D iucto \.· 
- 5 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description 
The objective of the Project is to reduce flood risk in the urban core area and 
improve connectivity between the city center and the new low risk urban growth areas, and 
enhance the capacity of city authorities to manage disaster risk in Can Tho City. 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part 1: F1ood Risk Management and Environmental Sanitation 
Reducing flood related risks in the urban core of Can Tho through the provision of support 
for: (a) priority flood control investments in the Ninh Kieu and Binh Thuy districts 
including river embankments and road rehabilitation; (b) rehabilitation and improvement 
of canal. drainage and sanitation infrastructure and associated management systems, 
creation of rainwater retention areas in the rural area of Binh Thuy District and the 
installation of a small pumping station in Tham Tuong drainage sub-catchment; (c) 
operation of the Can Tho City's integrated flood risk management and early warning 
systems, including development of: (i) improved protocols for operating the city flood 
control and drainage systems in case of emergency; (ii) an operation and maintenance 
funding framework for the systems; (iii) coordination and information exchange protocols 
with other Mekong provinces; and (iv) an improved early warning information system and 
raising public awareness. 
Part 2: Urban Corridor Development 
Increasing intra-city connectivity and encouraging compact, mixed-use pedestrian and 
public transport oriented urban development in the less flood p~ne area of Cai Rang, 
through the provision of support for: (a) construction of road and bridge links, and technical 
assistance regarding transport and land use; (b) construction of the residential area for 
resettlement in Ninh Kieu district; and (c) carrying out studies and developing plans on: (i) 
the improvement of the city bus system including development of a pilot bus rapid transit 
corridor; (and establishment of a public transport authority; (ii) preparation of a corridor 
development plan to identify opportunities for pedestrian oriented design perfonnance and 
on improvements to the non-motorized transport network; and (iii) analysis of the City's 
urban transport system and its interaction with land use and distribution of employment. 
- 6 -
Part 3: Spatial Planning Platform and Financial and Social Protection Instruments 
Provision of support for: (i) preparation of risk-informed spatial planning platform 
including data collection and digitization, software procurement, development and 
installation as well as related training needs; and construction of a hydrological 
hydrodynamic flood risk model~ and (ii) improving and modifying Can Tho City's disru.'ter 
responsive social assistance system. 
- 7 -
SCHEDULE2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements. 
I. 
The Borrower shall cause Can Tho City People's Committee to maintain 
throughout the implementation of the Project a Project Management Unit ("PMU") 
under the direction of qualified management and provided with sufficient 
resources, and staffed with competent personnel in adequate numbers, in each case 
with qualifications, experience and under terms of reference acceptable to the 
Bank, to be responsible for the overall management and coordination of the 
Project, the daily implementation of the Project, and the monitoring and evaluation 
of Project achievements and impacts. 
2. 
The Borrower shall cause Can Tho City People's Committee to take all necessary 
measures to ensure that the PMU is responsible for the day-to-day implementation 
of the Project in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, including: {a) maintaining 
accounting and financial systems; and (b) maintaining competent staff, including 
technical, environmental and social personnel in adequate numbers, in each case 
with relevant qualifications and experience. 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause Can Tho City People's Committee to ensure the 
following, for the purposes of implementing the Project, that: 
(a) 
the Project Steering Committee ( .. PSC") chaired by the Vice Chairperson 
of Can Tho City People's Committee, or any successor thereto, who shall 
be responsible for 
providing strategic direction and oversight and 
facilitating coordination of all relevant 
administrative agencies and 
departments of Can Tho City People's Committee for effective Project 
implementation; 
(b) 
the relevant departments and agencies of Can Tho City People's 
Committee provide the necessary support for the effective implementation 
of the Project, including such support related to financial, technical, 
environmental, and land acquisition and resettlement of Displaced Persons 
matters in accordance with the relevant operational policies of the Bank; 
( c) 
all works and services under the Project are carried out in a timely manner 
and in accordance with the relevant contractual instruments. 
- 8 -
4. 
The Borrower shall cause Can Tho City People's Committee to provide necessary 
counterpart resources including financial support to implement the Project in a 
timely manner and satisfactory to the Bank. 
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement 
1. 
To facilitate implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds 
of the Loan and the Financing available to Can Tho City People's Committee 
under a Subsidiary Agreement between Can Tho City People's Committee and the 
Borrower, represented by its Ministry of Finance, under tenns and conditions 
acceptable to the Bank. which shall include the obligations of Can Tho City 
People's Committee to: 
(a) 
with respect to the proceeds of the Loan, (i) pay the Borrower a front-end-
fee in an amount equal to the Front-end Fee specified in Section 2.03 of 
this Agreement; (ii) repay the proceeds of the Loan over a period of twenty 
nine (29) years, inclusive of a grace period often (IO) years; and (iii) pay 
interest on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from time to time at the rate payable by the Borrower pursuant to Section 
2.05 of this Agreement, subject to any request that the Borrower may make 
pursuant to Section 2.08 of this Agreement. 
(b) 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of loan proceeds 
other than the Borrower; 
(c) 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
the Project Operations Manual, and except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree in writing, not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be 
assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned, or any 
provision thereof; 
( d) 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
the Safeguard Instruments, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree 
in writing, not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be assigned, 
amended, abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned, or any provision 
thereof; 
(e) 
ensure that: (i) an acceptable financial management system is maintained 
and financial statements are prepared in accordance with consistently 
applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank. both in a manner 
adequate to reflect the operations and financial condition of Can Tho City, 
including the operations, resources, and expenditures related to the 
Project; and (ii) such statements are audited by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Banlc, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
- 9 -
standards acceptable to the Banlc, and such audited financial statements 
are furnished to the Borrower and the Bank and made publicly available 
in a timely fashion and in a manner acceptable to the Bank; and 
(f) 
ensure that procurement of the goods, works, and non-consulting and 
consultants' services required for the Project is carried out in accordance 
with the provisions of Section III of this Schedule 2, as said provisions 
may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan. 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan and the Financing. Except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary 
Agreement or any of its provisions. 
C. 
Anti-Corruption 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
D. 
Project Operations Manual 
I. 
lbe Borrower shall: (a) ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with 
the POM; and (b) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, 
abrogate, or waive, or permit to be assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived, the 
aforementioned, or any provision thereof. 
2. 
In the event of a conflict between the provisions of such POM and those of this 
Agreement, the latter shall govern. 
E. 
Safeguards 
l. 
The Borrower shall and shall cause Can Tho City People's Committee to: 
(a) 
take all necessary actions to avoid or minimize to the extent possible any 
involuntary relocation of persons, or their loss of shelter, assets, or access 
to assets, or loss of income sources or means of livelihood, temporarily or 
permanently; and 
(b) 
in the event that Project activities give rise to Displaced Persons, prior to 
the commencement of such activities, cause to be prepared, a Resettlement 
Action Plan, acceptable to the Banlc, in accordance with the guidelines, 
requirements and procedures set forth in the Resettlement Policy 
Framework, and thereafter implement in a timely manner said 
Resettlement Plan as approved by the Bank. 
- 10 -
2. 
The Borrower shall and shall cause Can Tho City People's Committee to ensure 
that all land acquisition required for the purposes of carrying out works under the 
Project are financed exclusively out of its own resources, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the resources needed for these purposes, including: (a) all land 
acquisition required for the purposes of carrying out the Project; (b) resettlement 
and rehabilitation payments to Displaced Persons; and ( c) all other costs associated 
with environmental and/or social mitigation measures set forth in the Safeguard 
Instruments. 
3. 
The Borrower shall and shall cause Can Tho City People's Committee to: 
(a) 
implement in a timely manner the Environmental Management Plans, in 
accordance with the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment 
acceptable to the Bank, as the case may be; 
(b) 
ensure that no civil works carried out under Parts I and 2 of the Project, shall 
commence unless and until the relevant Safeguards Instruments are 
furnished to the Bank and all requisite consultation and public disclosure 
activities have been carried out, all in a manner aru;i form satisfactory to the 
Bank; and 
(c) 
ensure that any Technical Assistance delivered under the Project including 
baseline diagnostics on the performance of the current urban transport 
system and any feasibility studies, are undertaken in accordance with the 
guidelines, requirements and procedures set forth in the Safeguards 
Instruments and the relevant operational policies of the Bank. 
4. 
The Borrower shall and shall cause Can Tho City People's Committee to: 
(a) 
not amend, revise or waive, nor allow to be amended, revised or waived, 
the provisions of the Safeguard Instruments or any provision of any one 
thereof, without the prior written agreement of the Banlc; and 
(b) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, the 
implementation of the Safeguard Instruments. 
5. 
In case of any inconsistency between the provisions of any of the Safeguard 
Instruments and this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 
6. 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph l of Section ILA of this Schedule 
2. the Borrower shall take all measures necessary on its part to regularly collect, 
compile, and submit to the Bank, as part of the Project Reports, infonnation on the 
status of compliance with the Safeguards Instruments, giving details of: 
- 11 -
(a) 
measures taken in furtherance of the Safeguards Instruments; 
(b) 
conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the smooth 
implementation of the Safeguards Instruments; and 
( c) 
remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such 
conditions. 
Section U. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
A. 
Project Reports 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and cause Can 
Tho City People's Committee through the PMU, to prepare Project Reports in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5 .08 of the General Conditions and on 
the basis of the indicators acceptable to the Banlc and as set forth in the POM. Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of the period covered by 
such report. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Borrower shall cause Can Tho City People's Committee through the PMU, to 
maintain a financial management system in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Pan A of this Section. the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Banlc not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of 
each semester, an interim unaudited financial report for the Project covering the 
semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Banlc. 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause Can Tho City People's Committee through the PMU to 
have the Project Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 5 .09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements 
shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower, or any other periods 
acceptable to the Bank. The audited Financial Statements for each such period 
shall be furnished to the Banlc not later than six months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement 
A. 
General 
I. 
Goods, Works, and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works, and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
- 12 -
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines. and with the provisions of 
this Section. 
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section. 
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and Ill of the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, Ill. IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, 
as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works, and Non-consulting 
Services 
I . 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods, works, and non-consulting services shall be procured wider 
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than International 
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, non-consulting services, and 
works. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such 
methods may be used: 
, Procurement Method 
: 
I (a) National Competitive Biddini, subject to the additional procedures set out j 
I 
in the Annex to this Schedule 
I 
I 
i (b) Shopping 
I (c) Direct Contracting 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services 
1 . 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured wider contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-Based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants· services. The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
' 
I 
D. 
- 13 -
\ Procurement Method 
(a) Quality-Based Selection 
(b) Least-Cost Selection 
(c) Selection Based on the Consultants' Qualifications 
i (d) Single-Source Selection 
! . 
i (e) Selection of Individual Consultants 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
l 
i 
' 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
A. 
General 
l. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan and the Credit in accordance 
with the provisions of Article II of the respective General Conditions, this Section, 
and such additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance: (a) the Front-end Fee in 
accordance with Section 2.07 (b) of the General Conditions; and (b) Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Credit ("Category"), the allocation 
of the amounts of the Loan and the Credit to each Category, and the percentage of 
expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
I ( 1 ) Goods, works, 
I 
nsuJ. 
! non-co 
tlng 
, services, 
! consultants' 
! l services, 
and 
' training 
and 
workshops 
under 
the Project, except 
I Parts 
l(iii), 2(iii) 
1and3. 
I (2) Front-end Fee 
(3) Commitment 
Charge 
123,847,500 
312,500 
840,000 
- 14 -
Amount of the 
Credit Allocated 
'I 
(expressed in SDR 
equhralent) 
I 
90,600.000 
I 
I 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to 
be financed 
I 
(inclusive of 
1 
Taxes) 
100% 
Amount 
payable 
pursuant to Section 
2.03 
of 
this 
Agreement 
in 
accordance 
with 
Section 2.07 (b) of 1 
the 
General I 
Conditions 
Amount 
payable 
pursuant to Section 
2.04 
of 
this , 
Agreement 
in i 
I 
accordance 
with I 
Section 3.0l(b) of 
the 
General 
Conditions 
TOTAL 
AMOUNT 
125,000,000 
90,600,000 
'----------'---------'--------------~-------' 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
l. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2022. 
- 15 -
C. 
Other Undertakings 
The Borrower intends that the proceeds of the Financing will be withdrawn first, 
and subsequently the proceeds of the Loan., to the extent practicable. 
- 16 -
ANNEXroSCHEDULE2 
National Competitive Bidding: Additional Procedures 
The procedures to be fo1lowed for the procurement of goods, non-consulting services, and 
works under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding shall be those 
set forth in: (a) Article 20 on Open Bidding of the Borrower's Law on Procurement 
No. 4312013/QHl 3 dated November 26, 2013 and related provisions necessary to effect 
the same; and (b) the Borrower's Decree No. 63/2014/ND-CP Guiding Implementation of 
the Law on the Procurement dated June 26, 2014 (collectively, "National Procurement 
Laws"), 
subject to the provisions of Section I and Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement of Goods, Works, and Non-Consulting Services under ffiRD 
Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers" (dated January 2011, 
revised July 2014) (the "Procurement Guidelines") and the following provisions: 
Conflict of Interest 
1. 
A bidder shall not have a conflict of interest. Any bidder found to have a conflict 
of interest shall be ineligible for award of a contract. The provisions on conflict of interest 
as stated under Section I of the Procurement Guidelines shall apply. 
2. 
The eligibility of bidders shall be as defined under Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines; accordingly, no bidder or potential bidder shall be declared ineligible for 
cont."'acts financed by the Bank for reasons other than those provided in Section I of the 
Guidelines. Foreign bidders shall be eligible to participate in bidding under the same 
conditions as national bidders. In particular, no domestic preference over foreign bidders 
shall be granted to national bidders in bid evaluation, nor shall foreign bidders be asked or 
required to form joint ventures with or be subcontractors to national bidders in order to 
submit a bid. 
3. 
Government-owned enterprises or institutions of the Borrower's country are 
eligible to bid in the Borrower's country only if they can establish that they: (i) are legally 
and financially autonomous, (ii) operate under commercial law, and (iii) are not dependent 
agencies of the Borrower or Sub-Borrower. 
Time for Bid Preparation 
4. 
The time allowed for the preparation and submission of bids for large and/or 
complex packages shall not be less than thirty (30) days from the date of the invitation to 
bid or the date of availability of the bidding documents, whichever is later. 
- 17 -
Standard Bidding Documents 
5. 
The standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used. 
Bid Opening and Bid Evaluation 
6. 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for submission of 
bids, regardless of the number of bids received. 
7. 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria that shall be 
clearly specified in the bidding documents and quantified in monetary terms for evaluation 
criteria other than price; merit points shall not be used in bid evaluation. No bid shall be 
eliminated from detailed evaluation on the basis of minor, non-substantive deviations. The 
evaluation of bidder's qualifications shall be conducted separately subsequent to the 
technical and commercial evaluation of the bid. 
8. 
A contract shall be awarded, within the period of the validity of bids, to the bidder 
who meets the appropriate standards of capability and resources and whose bid has been 
determined (i) to be substantially responsive to the bidding documents and (ii) to offer the 
lowest evaluated cost. A bidder shall neither be required nor permitted, as a condition for 
award, to undertake obligations not specified in the bidding documents or otherwise to 
modify the bid as originally submitted. 
9. 
No bid shall be rejected on the basis ofa comparison with the employer's estimate 
and budget ceiling without the Bank's prior written agreement. 
Rejection of All Bids and Re-bidding 
I 0. 
Rej~tion of all bids is justified when there is lack of effective competition, or all 
bids are not substantially responsive, or no bidder meets the specified qualification criteria, 
or the bid price of the lowest evaluated winning bid is substantially higher than the 
Borrower's updated estimated cost or available budget. All bids shall not be rejected or 
new bids solicited without the Bank's prior written agreement. 
Complaints by Bidders and Handling of Complaints 
11 . 
The Borrower shall implement an effective and independent protest mechanism, 
acceptable to the Bank, allowing bidders to protest and have their protests handled in a 
timely manner. 
- l 8 -
SCHEDULE3 
Amortization Schedule 
l . 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan 
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal 
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such 
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percenta2e) 
On each January l and July 1 
Beginning July 1, 2026 through I 
2.63% 
'Jul~ 1, 2044 
_j__ 
I 0n January i. 204s 
·-"- -~! ----
2.69% 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the 
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn 
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph l of this 
Schedule. 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount 
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the 
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share") 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
- 19 -
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal 
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices 
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions 
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after 
the adoption of such billing system. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate 
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the 
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if 
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the 
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each 
such amount. 
- 20 -
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
I. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the ··Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011. 
2. 
··category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
"Can Tho City" means the city of such name located in the southern part of the 
Borrower's territory, or any successor thereto. 
4. 
"Can Tho City People· s Committee" or "CTC PC" means the local government 
of Can Tho City, or any successor thereto. 
5. 
''Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank 
Borrowers" dated January 201 l, revised July 2014. 
6. 
"DBO Contract" means the design - build - operate contract, with terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, which contract is to be entered into between 
Can Tho City through the PMU and the DBO Contractor for the purposes of 
carrying out Part 2 of the Project. 
7. 
''DBO Contractor'' means the contractor entering into the DBO Contract with the 
Can Tho City through the PMU for the purposes of carrying out Parts 1, 2 or 3 of 
the Project. 
8. 
"Displaced Person" means a person who, on account of implementation of the 
Project. has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of 
shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or 
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; or 
(b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected 
areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person; and 
"Displaced Persons" means, collectively, all such persons. 
9. 
"Environmental and Social Impact Assessment" means the environmental impact 
assessment, acceptable to the Bank, prepared by Can Tho City People's Committee 
and approved by the Minister of Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment 
in respect of Part 2 of the Project, pursuant to its Decision Number 311/QD-
BTh'MT dated February 16, 2016, and such term includes any annexes or 
schedules to such assessment. 
\ 
- 21 -
10. 
''Environment and Social Management Plan" or .. ESMP"' means enviromnemal 
and social management 
plan, to be agreed with the Bank and setting out 
mitigation., enhancement, monitoring, reporting and institutional measures, 
including capacity building through training, to eliminate any adverse 
environmental impacts of activities to be implemented under the Project, offset 
them, or reduce them to acceptable levels, or enhance positive impacts, in 
accordance with the provisions of the Environmental Impact Assessment, as the 
same may be modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of the 
Bank, and such term includes any annexes or schedules to such plans. 
1 l. 
"Financing Agreement" means the agreement between the Borrower and the 
Association for the Project, of the same date as this Agreement, as such agreement 
may be amended from time to time. "Financing Agreement" includes all 
appendices, schedules and agreements supplemental to the Financing Agreement. 
12. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
13. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the incremental operating costs under the 
Project incurred by the Borrower for purposes of Project management, 
implementation, and monitoring and evaluation, including office supplies and 
consumables, 
utilities, 
bank charges, 
communications, information and 
communication campaigns, mass media and printing services, vehicle rental, 
operation., maintenance, and insurance, office space rental, building and equipment 
maintenance, travel, lodging, and subsistence allowances, and salaries of 
contractual and temporary staff, but excluding salary and salary supplements of 
staff of the Borrower's civil service ("c:Ong chuc" and "vi en chl'.rc") and staff of the 
implementing agencies. 
14. 
"Ministry ofNatural Resources and Environment" means the Borrower's Ministry 
of Natural Resources and Environment, or any successor thereto. 
15. 
·'Project Management Unit" or"PMlI'' means the unit established by Can Tho City 
People's Committee pursuant to Decision Number 3966/QD-UBND dated 
December 29, 2014 as amended and/or supplemented from time to time, or any 
successor thereto. 
16. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works 
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by 
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011, revised July 2014. 
17. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated 
September 28, 2015 and referred to in paragraph l .18 of the Procurement 
- 22 -
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
18. 
"'Project Operations Manual" or "POM" means the document adopted by Can Tho 
City People's Committee pursuant to Decision Number 215/QD-UBND dated 
January 28, 2016, and referred to in Section l.D of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
agreed with the Bank and setting out implementation, organizational, 
administrative, monitoring and evaluation, environmental and social monitoring 
and mitigation, 
financial 
management, 
disbursement, 
and procurement 
arrangements for purposes of Project implementation, as the same may be 
amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank. and such 
term includes any annexes or schedules to such manual. 
19. 
"Project Steering Committee" or "PSC' means the committee established within 
Can Tho City People's Committee to provide strategic direction and oversight as 
well as coordination for effective implementation of the Project. 
20. 
"Resettlement Plans" or "RPs" means Can Tho City's plans, acceptable to the 
Bank and setting out detailed measures, covering those related to compensation 
payment and support, including also mitigation, enhancement, monitoring, and 
institutional measures, and capacity building through training, to carry out 
compensation, support, resettlement, and livelihoods restoration of Displaced 
Persons, grievance redress mechanisms, and land acquisition for a site specific 
civil works under the Project, in accordance with the provisions of the 
Resettlement Policy Framework. as the same may be modified from time to time 
with the prior written agreement of the Bank. and such term includes any annexes 
or schedules to such plans. 
21. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the framework, approved by 
Can Tho City People's Committee pursuant to Decision Number 163/QD-UBND 
dated January 20, 2016, agreed with the Bank and setting out the principles, 
covering those related to compensation payment and support, including also 
mitigation, enhancement, monitoring, institutional measures, and capacity 
building through training, to carry out compensation payment, support, 
resettlement, and livelihoods restoration of any Displaced Persons, and guidelines 
and procedures for the preparation of Resettlement Action Plan(s) that are required 
under the Project, as the same may be modified from time to time with the prior 
written agreement of the Bank. and such term includes any annexes or schedules 
to such framework. 
22. 
··safeguards Instruments" means, collectively, the Environmental and Social 
Impact Assessment, the Environmental and Social Management Plan which 
includes the Environmental Management Plan and the Social Management Plan, 
\ 
- 23 -
the Social Assessment, the Resettlement Policy Framework, and the Resettlement 
Plan. 
23. 
''Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section l.B of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the 
proceeds of the Loan and the Financing available to Can Tho City People's 
Committee. 
24. 
"'Technical Assistance" means activities such as feasibility studies, technical, 
engineering design studies; that would facilitate construction of physical 
infrastructure, including baseline diagnostics on the performance of the current 
urban transport system, studies on enabling conditions that are needed to catalyze 
the transition towards more effective land use systems and provision of high 
quality transport services and technical analysis to support pilot projects. 
25. 
''Training and Workshops" means the reasonable costs of expenditure incurred by 
the Borrower, based on annual work plans and terms of reference acceptable to the 
Bank, in facilitating and conducting domestic and overseas training and workshop 
activities of the Project, including costs of training or workshop materials; 
honoraria; interpretation and translation; equipment and venue rental; lunches; and 
per diem, accommodation, and transportation for those attending the training or 
workshop; but excluding salary and salary supplements of Borrower's civil 
servants ("cong chfrc" and "vi en cht'.rc") and staff of the implementing agencies. 
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows: 
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section 
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below. 
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows: 
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge 
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at 
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee"). 
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the 
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the 
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty 
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts 
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. 
The 
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment 
Date.·· 
- 24 -
3. 
In the Appendix. Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and 
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in 
paragraph 2 above. 
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following 
definition of"Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs 
according! y: 
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the 
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01 (b ). " 
