OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8606-BY
Loan Agreement
(Public Financial Management Modernization Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BELARUS
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
,0? 
2016
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8606-BY
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
, 2016, between REPUBLIC
OF 
BELARUS 
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred 
to 
in 
this 
Agreement, 
the 
amount of ten million 
Dollars
(US$10,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower's Representative for
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this
Section is its First Deputy Minister of Finance or Deputy Minister of Finance, as
the case may be.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter
of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
-2-
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower, through its Ministry of Finance (MoF), shall carry out the
Project with the assistance of the Data-Processing Center (IT Center) in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the
Implementation Arrangements.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
The Implementation Arrangements have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced, in such a manner so as to
affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of
the IT Center to carry out the Project.
(b) 
The Borrower's Resolution of the Council of Ministers No. 223 dated
June 20, 1973 has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially or adversely, in the opinion of the Bank,
the IT Center's ability to carry out the Project pursuant to the
Implementation Arrangements.
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following, namely, that any
event specified in Section 4.01 (a) or (b) of this Agreement occurs and is
continuing for a period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given
by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The Implementation Arrangements have been duly signed and are in full
force and effect.
(b) 
The Project Operational Manual has been adopted by the MoF.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement.
-4-
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower's
Representative is the Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Minsk, 220010
Sovetskaya Str. 7
Republic of Belarus
Facsimile:
375 17 2224593
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at Minsk, Republic of Belarus, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BELARUS
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 11(tulmir' //?na/77n'
Title:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
VAuthorized Represent 
ve
Name: 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_
Title:(2u c 
I4(
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to improve policy alignment of the budget,
consolidate cash balances, improve budget transparency and lay the foundations for an
integrated financial management information system.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. Budget Management Regulations and Procedures
1.1. 
Strengthening the Borrower's budget preparation through, inter alia:
(a) 
the provision of technical assistance on, inter alia: (i) the selection and
use of financial programming model, including the provision of relevant
Training; (ii) the identification of existing gaps in operational capacity
and methodology for macroeconomic forecasting;
(b) 
the development of methodologies for estimating: (i) tax expenditures
(including tax privileges and exemptions) and assessing their efficiency;
and (ii) tax gap;
(c) 
the development of a medium-term budgeting methodology, which
includes, inter alia: (i) the definition of medium-term expenditure limits
for the Borrower's programs; (ii) the carrying out of an assessment
regarding the feasibility of establishing reserve funds as a tool for
countercyclical fiscal policy; and (iii) the establishment of a mechanism
for multi-year allocations and transfer of unused funds into the
Borrower's next fiscal year; and
(d) 
the development of a program-based budgeting methodology which
includes, inter alia: (i) the establishment of indicators to assess
efficiency and results of the Borrower's programs; (ii) the development
of a new program classification of budget expenditures; and (iii) the
carrying out of relevant capacity building activities.
1.2. 
Strengthening the Borrower's debt management system through, inter alia: (a)
the provision of technical assistance on the implementation of the Borrower's
debt management strategy; and (b) the revision of the Borrower's public debt
regulatory framework.
1.3. 
Strengthening the Borrower's budget execution and budget reporting through,
inter alia:
-7-
(a) 
(i) the development of a plan for a phased consolidation of the
Borrower's public funds in the Treasury Single Account (TSA), and
implementation of the first phase of said plan; (ii) the provision of
technical 
assistance 
focused 
on 
strengthening 
the 
Borrower's
management of commitments; 
(iii) the integration of the Borrower's
procurement procedures into the budget execution process; and (iv) the
development of cash forecasting tools and procedures, including the
provision of Training on their use;
(b) 
(i) the development of the conceptual framework for the reform of the
national public sector accounting and reporting system, including the
definition of institutional responsibilities within the Borrower; (ii) the
design of a comprehensive and time bound implementation plan, which
includes, inter alia: (A) the proposed changes to the existing legal
framework; and (B) a proposed mechanism for the development and
adoption of accounting and reporting standards which are compliant with
International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS); (iii) the
preparatory activities for the adoption of the first set of standards
developed using the mechanism referred to in (B) herein, including the
carrying out of public consultations; (iv) the development of a unified
chart of accounts integrated with the budget classification; (v) the
development of financial reporting templates in accordance with IPSAS;
including the preparation of methodological 
instructions for the
compilation of financial reports; (vi) provision of technical assistance
and Training on the implementation of the new set of standards and on
the unified chart of accounts referred to in (iii) and (iv) herein,
respectively;
(c) 
(i) the development of options for the modernization of the internal
financial control and audit system of the Borrower's public sector; and
(ii) based on the options developed under (i) herein, the formulation of
the conceptual framework of the new public sector internal financial
control and audit system; and
(d) 
the strengthening of the public access to the Borrower's budget
information through, inter alia: (i) the preparation and publication of
user friendly versions of the Borrower's budget information; (ii) the
acquisition and installation of relevant software (e.g. data extraction and
business-analysis); and (iii) the provision of Training.
Part 2. Public Financial Management IT Solutions
Carrying out of the following activities, inter alia:
-8-
(a) 
development of public financial management business processes for the
design and implementation of an integrated financial management
information system, based on the activities carried out under Part 1
above, including through the acquisition and installation of business
process management software in the MoF and/or the IT Center;
(b) 
carrying out an analysis of existing integrated solutions in the market for
the establishment of a financial management information system;
(c) 
preparation of bidding documents, including specifications, for the
acquisition of a financial management information system, based on the
revised business processes carried out under Part 2 (a) above; and
(d) 
upgrading of the Automated System for Financial Settlements through,
inter alia, the acquisition and installation of the necessary software and
hardware in the MoF and/or the IT Center.
Part.3 Change Management
3.1. 
Carrying out of capacity building activities supporting the Borrower's change
management process to implement the public financial management activities
referred to in Parts 1 and 2 above, including: (i) the carrying out of awareness
campaigns, Training activities on the implementation of said reforms; (ii) the
design and implementation of Training programs for the Training Center;
3.2. 
Strengthening the Training Center's operational capacity through, inter alia: (i)
the acquisition and installation of relevant hardware and software; and (ii) the
provision of technical assistance on developing a business model for training
delivery; and
3.3. 
Project management activities through the provision of support for Project
implementation, monitoring and evaluation, including the procurement and
financial management aspects and the carrying out of the Project audits.
-9-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arran2ements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall vest the overall responsibility for the implementation of the
Project in MoF, and to this end, through MoF, shall:
(a) 
cause the IT Center to: (i) operate and maintain, throughout Project
implementation, the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) with qualified
staff in sufficient numbers, as well as adequate funds, premises, services
and other resources for Project implementation (including, procurement,
financial management and monitoring and evaluation) as set forth in the
agreement between the MoF and the IT Center referred to in Section I.B
of this Schedule, all acceptable to the Bank and described in the POM;
and (ii) ensure that any staff of the PIU financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan is selected and hired in accordance with Section III of this
Schedule; and
(b) 
ensure, throughout Project implementation, the coordination between the
IT Center and other relevant Borrower's units and agencies participating
in Project implementation, all with powers, functions, capacity, staffing
and resources acceptable to the Bank to fulfill their respective
responsibilities under the Project.
2. 
The Borrower, through MoF, shall cause the IT Center to: (a) implement the
Project in accordance with the requirements set forth in a manual acceptable to
the Bank (Project Operational Manual or POM); and (b) not assign, amend,
abrogate, or waive the POM or any of its provisions, except with the prior written
approval of the Bank. In case of any conflict between the terms of the POM and
those of this Agreement, the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall
prevail.
B. 
Implementation Arrangements Documents
1 .
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower, through MoF, shall
issue a resolution and, immediately thereafter, enter into an agreement with the
IT Center, all under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (Implementation
Arrangements) which shall include, inter alia, the obligation of the IT Center to:
(i) implement the Project in accordance with the pertinent provisions of this
Agreement (including compliance with the pertinent provisions set forth in the
Procurement and Financial Management sections and the provisions of Article V
- 10 -
of the General Conditions), the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and the POM; (ii) use
the proceeds of the Loan exclusively for the purposes of the Project; (iii)
promptly inform the Borrower, through MoF, and the Bank of any condition
which interferes, or threatens to interfere, with the performance of its obligations
under the Implementation Arrangements; and (iv) take or permit to be taken all
actions to enable the Borrower to comply with the obligations referred to in this
Agreement as applicable to the IT Center.
2. 
The Borrower, through MoF, shall exercise its rights under the Implementation
Arrangements in such manner as to protect the interest of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower, through MoF, shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Implementation Arrangements or any of their provisions.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
Section H. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower, through MoF: (a) shall, and shall cause the IT Center to, monitor
and evaluate the progress of the Project; and (b) shall cause the IT Center to
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the
General Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the
period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower, through MoF, shall cause the IT Center to prepare and furnish to
the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter,
interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form
and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through MoF, shall cause the IT Center to have the Financial
Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the
General Conditions. 
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the
- 11 -
period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for
each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after
the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods and non-consulting services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used
for procurement of goods and non-consulting services for those contracts
specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) Shopping; and (b) Direct Contracting.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
- 12 -
Budget; (c) 
Least Cost Selection; (d) 
Selection based on Consultants'
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Procedures set
forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of
Individual Consultants; and () Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1 .
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
2. 
The Borrower, through MoF, shall cause the IT Center to: (a) as part of every
other Project Report referred to in Section II. A of this Schedule of each year
during the implementation of the Project, beginning on February 15, 2017 or any
other date as shall be agreed by the Bank, prepare and furnish to the Bank an
annual procurement progress report (Procurement Report), in form and substance
acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia: (i) a description of the
issues which arose in connection with the full procurement cycle under the
Project during the twelve (12) months preceding the date of presenting each
Procurement 
Report, 
from design 
through planning, 
bidding, contract
implementation and completion; (ii) a list of proposed measures and actions to be
taken to resolve the issues identified under (A) above; and (iii) a proposed
timeline for the implementation of the said measures and actions; and (b)
immediately thereafter, implement the proposed measures and actions under each
Procurement Report in accordance with its terms and in a manner acceptable to
the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
- 13 -
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, non-
consulting services, 
9,975,000 
100%
consultants' services,
Training and Operating
Costs for the Project
Amount payable pursuant
(2) Front-end Fee 
25,000 
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(3) Interest Rate Cap or 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest 
Rate 
Collar 
0 
Section 2.08(c) of this
premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
10.000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2019.
- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Installment Share
(Expressed as a
Principal Payment Date 
Percentage)
On each March 15 and September 15
Beginning September 15, 2021 
16.67%
through September 15, 2023
On March 15, 2024 
16.65%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
- 15 -
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
- 16 -
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Automated System for Financial Settlements" means the MoF's IT system
consisting of a set of software and hardware, telecommunication and information
security tools to ensure automation of budget formulation, execution, accounting
and reporting procedures.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
4. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
5. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
6. 
"Implementation Arrangements" means MoF's Ministerial Resolution and the
agreement between MoF and the IT Center designating responsibility to the MoF
and the IT Center for the implementation of the Project, as referred to in Section
I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
7. 
"International 
Public Sector Accounting Standards" 
or "IPSAS" means
International Public Sector Accounting Standards issued by the International
Public Sector Accounting Standards Board of International Federation of
Accountants for the preparation of general purpose financial statements by
governments and other public sector entities around the world.
8. 
"IT" means Information Technology.
9. 
"IT Center" means the Republican Unitary Enterprise "Data-Processing Center
of the Ministry of Finance, a separate legal entity under the administrative
jurisdiction of the MoF pursuant to the Borrower's Resolution of the Council of
Ministers No. 223, dated June 20, 1973, or any successor thereto acceptable to
the Bank.
10. 
"MoF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance, or any successor thereto.
- 17 -
11. 
"Operating Costs" means the reasonable incremental operating expenditures
incurred by the IT Center for an efficient Project implementation and monitoring,
all based on annual budgets acceptable to the Bank, but excluding salaries of the
Borrower's officials and public servants, as set forth in the POM.
12. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
13. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated February 16, 2016, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
14. 
"Procurement Report" means any of the reports referred to in Section III.D.2 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
15. 
"Project Implementing Unit" or "PIU" means the unit referred to in Section I.A.1
(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
16. 
"Project Operational Manual" or "POM" means the Borrower's manual for the
Project, acceptable to the Bank, describing and setting forth procedures inter alia,
the activities and timetable of actions to be carried out under the Project, the
respective roles and responsibilities of the Borrower's subordinated agencies and
any other relevant ministry involved in the implementation of the Project, the
staff of the Project Implementing Unit, the fiduciary, technical and operational
aspects and procedures for implementation of the Project, including the financial
management 
procedures 
(budgeting, 
accounting 
and 
internal 
control,
disbursement and flow of funds, financial reporting, annual reports, internal and
external audit arrangements procedures and including the Project specific chart of
accounts), procurement procedures, monitoring and evaluation arrangements, and
other fiduciary and administrative arrangements and necessary terms of
reference, as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior written
agreement of the Bank
17. 
Training" means expenditures (other than those for consultants' services)
incurred by the IT Center in connection with the carrying out of training
activities (such as seminars, workshops, study tours, including the reasonable
travel costs (i.e. accommodation, transportation and per-diem, inter alia) of
trainees and trainers (if applicable), training registration fees, catering, rental of
training facilities and equipment, logistics and printing and translation services,
as well as training materials, all for the purposes of, and directly related to, the
activities of the Project.
- 18-
18. 
"Training Center" means the Center for Qualification Upgrading of Executives
and Specialists, a public educational institution under the administrative
jurisdiction of the MoF, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
19. 
"Treasury Single Account" or "TSA" means the set of accounts opened to the
MoF (including its territorial departments) for registering funds of the republican
budget, subnational budgets, budgets of state extra-budgetary funds and other
resources.
Section H. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1 .
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs
below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan
amount at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end
Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement
(the "Commitment Charge"). 
The Commitment Charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the
respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account or cancelled. 
The Commitment Charge shall be
payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified
in the Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
- 19 -
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties
to the Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General
Conditions, including (but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn
Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the Commitment Charge,
interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment premium,
any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a
Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium
payable upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
