OFFICIAL 
DOCUMENTS 
LOAN NUMBER 8594-MX 
Loan Agreement 
(Municipal Energy Efficiency Project) 
between 
UNITED MEXICAN ST ATES 
and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
Dated 
J v\'I 2-9"*' , 2016 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
-Hi 
Agreement dated 
, 2016, between UNITED MEXICAN ST A TES 
("Borrower") duly represented b its Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (Secretaria de 
Hacienda y Credito Pitblico) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). 
Whereas the Borrower has informed the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan (as set 
forth in the table in Section IV.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and for purposes of 
supporting the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (the "Project")), shall be 
used in conformity with the requirements of the Borrower's income, budgetary and public 
debt laws and the terms of this Agreement. 
NOW THEREFORE the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute 
an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix 
to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II -
LOAN 
2.01. 
Noting that the Borrower has informed the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan shall 
be used in conformity with the requirements of the Borrower's income, budgetary 
and public debt laws and the terms of this Agreement, but without limitation to the 
provisions of Section 8.01 of the General Conditions, the Bank agrees to lend to 
the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, 
the amount of one hundred million Dollars ($100,000,000), as such amount may 
be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist the Borrower 
in financing the Project. 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section 
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. Unless the Borrower's Representative 
designated in Section 6.01 of this Agreement otherwise informs the Bank, the 
Borrower's Representative for purposes of taking any action required or permitted 
to be taken pursuant to this Section is the NAFIN's Director(a) de Organismos 
Financieros Internaciona/es or any person or persons whom such representative 
shall designate in writing. 
-2-
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of 
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance. 
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General 
Conditions. 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or 
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all 
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the 
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and 
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable 
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of 
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by 
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in 
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines. 
-3-
( c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts 
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) 
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for 
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.09. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure 
Limit (as said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of 
this Section), the Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of 
one half of one percent (0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess 
Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for 
each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if any) 
shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date. 
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set 
forth below: 
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during 
which the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit, 
the product of: (A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the 
ratio of all (or, if the Bank so determines, a portion) of the Loan 
to the aggregate amount of all (or the equivalent portions) of the 
loans made by the Bank to the Borrower and to other borrowers 
guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an exposure 
surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined from 
time to time by the Bank. 
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the 
Bank's financial exposure to the Borrower, which, if exceeded, 
would subject the Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined 
from time to time by the Bank. 
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total 
financial exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by 
the Bank. 
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end, 
the Borrower, through SENER, shall: (a) carry out Part 1 of the Project; and (b) 
cause Part 2 of the Project to be carried out with the assistance of the Operator and 
CFE; all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions 
and the Operator Collaboration Agreement. 
-4-
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following, namely, that any of 
the parties to the Contrato de Mandato or to the Operator Collaboration Agreement 
shall have failed to perform any of their obligations under the Contrato de Mandato 
or under the Operator Collaboration Agreement, and that in the opinion of the 
Bank, such failure materially or adversely affects the objective of the Project. 
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following, namely, that any 
of the events specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing 
for a period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank 
to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
(a) 
the Contrato de Mandato has been duly executed by the parties thereto. 
(b) 
the Operator Collaboration Agreement has been duly executed by the 
parties thereto. 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the Contrato 
de Mandato has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on 
behalf of, the Borrower (through SHCP and SENER) and NAFIN and is legally 
binding upon the Borrower (through SHCP and SENER) and NAFIN in 
accordance with the Contrato de Mandato's terms. 
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower's 
Representative is the Titular de la Unidad de Credito Publico of SHCP. The 
authorized representative to make requests for Conversions or for an IBRD Hedge 
(as defined in the Hedging Guidelines) on behalf of the Borrower shall be: (a) the 
Titular de la Unidad de Credito Publico of SHCP or any person or persons whom 
he or she shall designate in writing for this particular purpose; or (b) NAFIN's 
Director(a) de Organismos Financieros Internacionales de NAFIN. 
-5-
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is: 
Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico 
Unidad de Asuntos Intemacionales de Hacienda 
Insurgentes Sur 1971, torre III, piso 3 
Colonia Guadalupe Inn 
01020 Mexico, D.F. 
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is: 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Cable address: 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 
Telex: 
248423(MCI) or 
64145(MCI) 
Facsimile: 
1-202-477-6391 
-6-
AGREED at _~M~e~'f..~\ ..... 
(c~C~·~1t~"1______,1,__tv\f---..... e__.t..____._.i(._.0 ___ , as of the day and year first 
above written. 
I 
UNITED MEXICAN ST ATES 
By 
Name: Dr. l\\bedo Ton GS Gae.I g 
Title: Tdv\a! ~ \a Uia\da d 
de c~-ed\ 0 ?oblico 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
By 
Name: Gie.raydo Couoc.booC> 
Title: Dived()'( t°1 (o\anbo 'f 
M-e~\C,O 
-7-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description 
The objectives of the Project are to promote the efficient use of energy in the 
Borrower's municipalities by carrying out energy efficiency investments in Selected 
Municipal Sectors and contribute to strengthening the enabling environment. 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part. I Policy Development and Institutional Strengthening 
Strengthening the enabling environment for energy efficiency at the municipal level 
through, inter a/ia: 
(a) 
(i) the carrying out of municipal energy efficiency diagnostics to assess energy use 
and identify energy saving in priority areas in sectors such as street lighting, water 
and wastewater, and municipal building; and (ii) the provision of capacity 
building activities on energy efficiency at the municipal and national level; 
(b) 
provision of sector-wide policy support, including: (i) the development of a plan 
for scaling-up the operational and financial mechanisms tested under the Project 
which shall include, inter alia: relevant procurement methodologies for 
performance-based contracting; and (ii) the development and implementation of a 
framework for the establishment of energy management systems in selected 
municipalities to facilitate the incorporation of energy efficiency considerations 
into the municipal planning, including the provision of required technical support; 
and 
( c) 
the provision of support for the implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the 
Project for eligible activities as set forth in the Project Operational Manual (POM). 
Municipal Energy Efficiency Investments 
Provision of support for: 
(a) 
the carrying out of Municipal Energy Efficiency Subprojects, cons1stmg of 
investments inter alia: (i) acquisition and installation oflighting fixtures and other 
street lighting infrastructure such as poles, arms and wiring, and management and 
control systems; (ii) acquisition and installation of pumps and motors and other 
auxiliary equipment for extracting, transporting, distributing and treating water 
and wastewater; and (iii) acquisition and installation of, among others, lighting, air 
conditioning, windows, insulation, white roofs, solar water heaters, and 
photovoltaic systems in public buildings; and 
(b) 
preparation of feasibility studies, including detailed energy audits and designs, and 
bidding documents, for the Municipal Energy Efficiency Subprojects. 
-8-
SCHEDULE2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
The Borrower, through SENER: 
(a) 
shall maintain, throughout Project implementation, the unit within SENER 
(SENER-UREP), with functions, responsibilities and sufficient resources 
acceptable to the Bank, which shall be responsible for overall Project 
coordination and day to day implementation of the Project, and staffed 
with competent personnel in adequate numbers, 
with qualifications, 
experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and set forth in 
the POM; and 
(b) 
ensure, throughout Project implementation, the coordination with 
SENER's subordinated agencies participating in the implementation of the 
technical aspects of the Project and other Borrower's agencies 
participating in the Project, all with powers and functions acceptable to the 
Bank to fulfill their respective responsibilities under the Project. 
2. 
For purposes of carrying out Part 2 of the Project, the Borrower, through SENER, 
shall enter into an agreement (the Operator Collaboration Agreement) with the 
Operator, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, as established in the 
POM, including, inter alia: 
(a) 
the Borrower's obligation, through SENER, to: (i) provide, on a grant 
basis and in a timely manner as needed, the funds required for the 
implementation of the activities under Part 2 of the Project, to the 
Operator; and (ii) take or permit to be taken all actions to enable the 
Operator to comply with the provisions of this Agreement; 
(b) 
the Operator's obligation to: (i) carry out the activities under Part 2 of the 
Project in accordance with the pertinent provisions of this Agreement 
(including Procurement and Financial Management sections of this 
Schedule), the Anti-Corruption Guidelines, the Environmental and Social 
Management Framework (ESMF) and the POM; and (ii) take or permit to 
be taken all actions to enable the Borrower, through SENER, to comply 
with the provisions of this Agreement with regard to Part 2 of the Project; 
all in respect of the Operator Collaboration Agreement, any Activity 
Initiation Agreement and any Energy Service Agreement; 
-9-
(c) 
the Operator's obligation to enter into an agreement with CFE (the CFE 
Implementation Agreement) under terms and conditions acceptable to the 
Bank, setting forth their respective roles and responsibilities regarding the 
implementation of Part 2 of the Project, including, inter alia: (i) CFE's 
obligation to assist the Operator in the technical implementation of said 
Part of the Project, including the collection of payments of electricity bills 
made by each Eligible Municipality or Eligible Water Operator, as the case 
may be, and the transfer of said payments to the Operator for further 
processing to SENER; and (ii) the Operator's obligation to pay a limited 
amount of Project Incremental Costs related to CFE's discharge of its 
responsibilities in the implementation of Part 2 of the Project, as 
established in the POM. 
(d) 
The Operator's obligation to, upon acceptance of a Municipal Energy 
Efficiency Subproject proposal following the eligibility criteria and 
procedures established in the POM, enter into an agreement (Activity 
Initiation Agreement) with the Borrower, through SENER, and the 
corresponding Eligible Municipality or Eligible Water Operator, as the 
case may be, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, including 
inter alia, the obligation of the pertinent Eligible Municipality or Eligible 
Water Operator (as the case may be) to assist the Operator in the 
preparation and evaluation of the corresponding Municipal Energy 
Efficiency Subproject proposal, and as set forth in the POM; 
(e) 
The Operator's obligation to, immediately upon the selection of a 
Municipal Energy Efficiency Subproject pursuant to the eligibility criteria 
and procedures established in the POM, enter into an implementation 
agreement (Energy Service Agreement) with the Borrower, through 
SENER, and the corresponding Eligible Municipality or Eligible Water 
Operator (as the case may be) under terms and conditions acceptable to 
the Bank which shall include, inter a/ia, the obligation of each said 
Eligible Municipality or Eligible Water Operator (as the case may be) to: 
(i) reimburse a portion of the cost of the pertinent Municipal energy 
Efficiency Subproject through the payments of electricity bills referred to 
in Section I.A. 2 ( c) (i) above on terms and conditions as provided in the 
POM, and provide, promptly as needed, the services, facilities and other 
counterpart resources required for the purpose of carrying out the pertinent 
Municipal Energy Efficiency Subproject; (ii) undertake the periodic 
operation and maintenance of the Municipal Energy Efficiency 
Subproject, as established in the POM, all in accordance with the 
provisions of the ESMF and in a manner acceptable to the Bank; (iii) at 
the Bank's, SENER's or the Operator's request, enable the Operator, 
SENER and/or the Bank to inspect the Municipal Energy Efficiency 
Subproject, including its operation and maintenance; and (iv) take or 
-10-
permit to be taken all actions to enable the Operator to comply with its 
obligation under the pertinent Energy Service Agreement; and 
(f) 
the conditions for the Borrower's payment of limited Project Incremental 
Costs, related to the Operator's discharge of its responsibilities under the 
Operator Collaboration Agreement, as established in the POM. 
3. 
The Borrower, through SENER, shall exercise its rights and carry out its 
obligations under the Operator Collaboration Agreement in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes 
of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce the Operator 
Collaboration Agreement, or any of its provisions. In case of any conflict between 
the provisions of this Agreement and the provisions of either the Operator 
Implementation Collaboration Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall 
prevail. 
B. 
Project Operational Manual 
The Borrower, through SENER, shall carry out, and/or cause to be carried out, the 
Project in accordance with a manual, acceptable to the Bank (Project Operational 
Manual or POM). The Borrower, through SENER, shall not, and/or cause not to 
amend, abrogate or waive the POM or any of its provisions without the Bank's 
written prior consent. In case of conflict between the provisions of the POM and 
the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 
C. 
Contrato de Mandato 
1. 
For purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower, through SHCP and SENER, 
shall enter into a contract (Contrato de Mandato) with NAFIN, satisfactory to the 
Bank, whereby: 
(a) 
SENER agrees to carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions 
of this Agreement including compliance with the POM and the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines; 
(b) 
NAFIN agrees to act as financial agent of the Borrower with respect to the 
Loan, meaning that, inter alia, NAFIN agrees to represent the Borrower 
vis-a-vis the Bank for purposes of submitting Loan withdrawal 
applications to the Bank in form and substance sufficient to justify 
disbursement by the Bank to the Borrower, referred to in the additional 
instructions cited in Section IV.A. l of this Schedule, all of this in 
compliance with the provisions of this Agreement, and to abide by the 
Anti-Corruption Guidelines; 
-11-
( c) 
The Borrower, through SHCP, shall have the right to, in case of fraud or 
corruption (as defined in the Anti-Corruption Guidelines) provide for the 
early termination of the Contrato de Mandato or temporarily suspend its 
effects, or, if applicable, require the Restitution of funds transferred to 
NAFIN or SENER under the Contrato de Mandato; and 
(d) 
The Borrower, through SENER, agrees to cooperate fully with NAFIN to 
ensure that NAFIN and SENER are able to comply with all of NAFIN's 
and SENER's obligations referred to in this Agreement. 
2. 
The Borrower, through SHCP and SENER, shall, and shall cause NAFIN to, 
exercise their rights and carry out their obligations under the Contrato de Mandato 
in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan. 
3. 
Neither the Borrower, through SHCP or SENER, shall, and shall cause NAFIN to, 
not amend, terminate, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any provision of the 
Contrato de Mandato without the Bank's prior written consent. In case of any 
conflict between the provisions of the Contrato de Mandato and those of this 
Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 
D. 
Anti-Corruption 
The Borrower, through SHCP and SENER, shall ensure that the Project is carried 
out in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
E. 
Safeguards 
The Borrower, through SENER, shall, and shall cause the Operator through the 
Operator Collaboration Agreement to, carry out the Project in accordance with the 
ESMF. Except as otherwise agreed by the Bank, the Borrower, through SENER, 
shall, and shall cause the Operator to, not amend, abrogate, waive, or fail to enforce 
the ESMF or any of its provisions. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
A. 
Project Reports and Mid-term Review 
1. 
The Borrower, through SENER, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the 
Bank ad included in the POM. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one 
calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than sixty (60) days 
after the end of the period covered by such report. 
-12-
2. 
By September 30, 2018, or such other date as the Bank and the Borrower shall 
agree upon, and without limitation to the provisions of Section 5.08 (a) and (b) of 
the General Conditions, the Borrower, through SENER shall, and shall cause the 
Operator to: (a) carry out jointly with the Bank, a mid-term review of the 
implementation of activities under the Project, which shall cover the progress 
achieved in the implementation of the Project; and (b) following such mid-term 
review, act promptly and diligently to take any corrective action as shall be agreed 
by the Bank. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Borrower, through SENER, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a 
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of 
the General Conditions. 
2. 
The Borrower, through SENER, shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than sixty (60) days after the end of each calendar semester, 
interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
3. 
The Borrower, through SENER, shall have its Financial Statements audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5 .09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each 
audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the 
Borrower. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement 
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Section. 
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section. 
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the 
-13-
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, 
as the case may be. 
4. 
Special Provisions. The Borrower, through SENER, shall: (a) supply the SEPA 
or any other system acceptable to the Bank with the information contained in the 
Procurement Plan within sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement; and (b) 
update the Procurement Plan at least once a year, or as needed throughout Project 
implementation, to reflect the actual Project implementation needs and progress, 
and supply the system mentioned above with the information contained in the 
updated Procurement Plan immediately thereafter. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting 
Services 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting 
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for 
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive 
Bidding; (b) Shopping; and ( c) Direct Contracting. 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following 
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for 
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the 
Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed 
Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; (d) Selection based on Consultants' 
Qualifications; ( e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; and (f) Procedures 
set forth in Section V of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of Individual 
Consultants. 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
-14-
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
A. 
General 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the 
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised 
from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant 
to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in 
paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account on 
or after the Effective Date and pay to itself the Front-end Fee payable pursuant to 
Section 3.01 of the General Conditions. The remaining proceeds of the Loan shall 
be disbursed in Dollars unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and the 
Bank and so reflected in the additional instructions referred to in Section IV .A.1 
immediately above. Consistently with Section 2.05 of the General Conditions, the 
Borrower shall use an amount equivalent to the amount in Dollars provided under 
the Loan Agreement to finance Eligible Expenditures. 
3. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures 
Allocated 
to be financed 
Cate~oo: 
(exl!ressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Goods, consultants' 
services, non-consulting 
6,000,000 
100% 
services, Capacity 
Building and Project 
Incremental Costs for Part 
1 of the Project 
(2) Goods, works, 
consultants' services, non-
93,750,000 
100% 
consulting services, 
Capacity Building and 
Project Incremental Costs 
for Part 2 (a) and (b) of the 
Project 
-15-
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures 
Allocated 
to be financed 
Catez:;on: 
(exnressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(3) Front-end Fee 
250,000 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
( 4) Interest Rate Cap or 
Amount due pursuant to 
Interest Rate Collar 
0 
Section 2.08(c) of this 
premium 
Agreement 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
100,000,000 
4. 
For purposes of Section IV.A.3, the following terms have the meaning below: 
(a) 
"Capacity Building" means the reasonable 'expenditures (other than 
consultants' services) incurred by the Borrower, through SENER, and 
Operator in connection with the carrying out of capacity building activities 
(including workshops, conferences and seminars) under the Project. 
(b) 
"Project Incremental Costs" means the reasonable incremental operating 
expenditures, based on an annual allocation previously approved by the 
Bank and the Borrower, required for an efficient Project implementation, 
administration, supervision, monitoring and evaluation, including limited 
incremental costs incurred by: (i) SENER in the implementation of Part 1 
of the Project and the monitoring and evaluation of the Project; and (ii) 
the Operator in connection with the implementation of Part 2 of the 
Project, but excluding salaries of the Borrower's officials and public 
servants, as set forth in the POM. 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000 may be made 
for payments made prior to this date but on or after the date twelve (12) months 
prior to the date of this Agreement, for Eligible Expenditures under the Project. 
2. 
The Closing Date is October 31, 2021. 
-16-
SCHEDULE3 
Amortization Schedule 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on September 
15, 2028. 
-17-
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
"Activity Initiation Agreement" means Convenio de Inicio de Actividades, the 
agreement between the Operator, SENER and the corresponding Eligible 
Municipality or Eligible Water Operator, as the case may be, referred to in Section 
I.A.2. ( d) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011. 
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
4. 
"CFE" means the Comisi6n Federal de Electricidad, the Borrower's federal 
electricity utility, established pursuant to the Borrower's Ley de la Comisi6n 
Federal de la Electricidad, dated August 11, 2014, or any successor thereto. 
5. 
"CFE Implementation Agreement" means the Contrato de Prestaci6n de Servicios 
between the Operator and CFE for the implementation of Part 2 of the Project, and 
referred to in Section I.A.2 ( c) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
6. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank 
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014). 
7. 
"Contrato de Mandato" means the agreement between the Borrower (through 
SHCP and SENER) and NAFIN referred to in Section I.C.1 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
8. 
"Eligible Municipality" means any of the Borrower's municipalities selected to 
participate in Part 2 of the Project, pursuant to the criteria and procedures 
established in the POM, and "Eligible Municipalities" means, collectively, all such 
municipalities. 
9. 
"Eligible Water Operator" means any of the public water or wastewater utilities 
located in any of the Eligible Municipalities selected to participate in Part 2 of the 
Project, pursuant to the criteria and procedures established in the POM, and 
"Eligible Water Operators" means, collectively, all such public water utilities. 
10. 
"Energy Service Agreement" means Convenio de Ejecuci6n de Acciones de 
Ahorro de Energia, the agreement between the Operator, SENER and the 
-18-
corresponding Eligible Municipality or Eligible Water Operator, as the case may 
be, referred to in Section I.A.2. ( e) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
11. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the 
framework prepared by SENER and the Operator, published on September 4, 
2015, acceptable to the Bank, setting forth the principles, guidelines, rules and 
procedures to assess the potential environmental, social, health and safety impacts 
of Project activities, and mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures to be 
taken to offset or eliminate any such negative impacts, or reduce them to 
acceptable levels, including: (a) measures for chance findings of physical cultural 
property; (b) guidelines for the identification of existing environmental conditions 
and potential direct and indirect environmental impacts resulting from the carrying 
out of the Municipal Energy Efficiency Subprojects (including a negative list of 
investments not to be financed under the Project); (c) guidelines for the carrying 
out of environmental assessments and the preparation and implementation of 
environmental management plans, when applicable; ( d) the recommendation of 
mitigation measures for each negative impact identified; and ( e) measures for 
enhancing each identified positive impact; as said framework may be amended 
from time to time with the Bank's prior written approval. 
12. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
13. 
"Municipal Energy Efficiency Subproject" means any eligible investment under 
Part 2 (b) of the Project to be carried out in any of the Selected Municipal Sectors 
which meets the criteria set forth in the Project Operational Manual, consisting of, 
inter a/ia: (i) acquisition and installation of lighting fixtures and other street 
lighting infrastructure such as poles, arms and wiring, and management and control 
systems; (ii) acquisition and installation of pumps and motors and other auxiliary 
equipment for extracting, transporting, distributing and treating water and 
wastewater; and (iii) acquisition and installation of, among others, lighting, air 
conditioning, windows, insulation, white roofs, solar water heaters, and 
photovoltaic systems in public buildings, all selected in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Operational Manual, and "Municipal Energy Efficiency 
Subprojects" means, collectively, all of such investments. 
14. 
"NAFIN" means Nacional Financiera, S.NC., I.B.D., a Mexican development 
bank serving as the Borrower's financial agent for purposes of the Loan, or any 
successor thereto. 
15. 
"Operator" means FIDE, the Fideicomiso para el Ahorro de Energia Electrica, the 
Electricity Energy Savings Trust Fund, a private fund established in August 14, 
1990, or any successor thereto. 
-19-
16. 
"Operator Collaboration Agreement" means Convenio de Colaboraci6n SENER-
FIDE, the agreement between SENER and the Operator for the implementation of 
Part 2 of the Project, referred to in Section I.A. 2 (a) of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
17. 
"Project Operational Manual" or "POM" means the 
manual for the Project 
referred to in Section LB of schedule 2 to this Agreement, acceptable to the Bank, 
prepared by the Borrower, through SENER, describing and setting forth inter alia: 
(a) the activities and timetable of actions to be carried out under the Project; (b) 
the respective roles and responsibilities of the agencies involved in the 
implementation of the Project; (c) staff of SENER-UREP; (d) the fiduciary, 
technical and operational aspects and procedures for implementation of the Project, 
including the financial management procedures (budgeting, accounting and 
internal control, disbursement and flow of funds, financial reporting, annual 
reports, internal and external audit arrangements procedures); ( e) the criteria and 
procedures for the selection of the Municipal Energy Efficiency Subprojects; (f) 
the performance indicators of the Project; and (g) the ESMF; as the same may be 
amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank. 
18. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works 
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by 
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014). 
19. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated 
January 9, 2016 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines 
and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from 
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
20. 
"Restitution" means the refund to the Borrower of the portion of the Loan amount 
with respect to which fraud and corruption has occurred as set forth in the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines. 
21. 
"Selected Municipal Sectors" means any of the following sectors: street lighting, 
water and wastewater and municipal buildings, and any other municipal sector, as 
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank. 
22. 
"SENER" means Secretaria de Energia, the Borrower's Ministry of Energy, and 
any successor thereto. 
23. 
"SENER-UREP" means the unit established within SENER, referred to in Section 
I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, or any successor thereto. 
24. 
"SEPA" means the Bank's publicly accessible Procurement Plans Execution 
System. 
-20-
25. 
"SHCP" means Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico, the Borrower's 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, or any successor thereto. 
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows: 
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section 
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below. 
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows: 
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge 
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at 
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee"). 
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the 
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the 
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty 
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts 
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. 
The 
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment 
Date." 
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and 
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in 
paragraph 2 above. 
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following 
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs 
accordingly: 
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the 
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.0l(b)." 
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the 
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a). 
-21-
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the 
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows: 
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the 
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including 
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any 
surcharge, any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early 
termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any 
premium payable upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower." 
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the 
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting 
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest". 
