OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8644-TN
Loan Agreement
(Additional Financing for the Northern Tunis Wastewater Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
OFFICE NATIONAL DE L'ASSAINISSEMENT
Dated November 30, 2016
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8644-TN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated November 30, 2016, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") and OFFICE NATIONAL 
DE
L'ASSAINISSEMENT ("Borrower") for the purpose of providing additional financing for the
Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Borrower and the Bank
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of sixteen million two hundred thousand Euros
(E16,200,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"),
to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e)
of the General Conditions.
-2-
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest
rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the
Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project
is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that the Basic
Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the Borrower's ability to perform any of its obligations under this
Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the event
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs.
-3-
ARTICLE V -
TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of
this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the President-Director-General of the Borrower.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Office National de l'Assainissement
32, rue Hedi Nouira
1023 Tunis
Republic of Tunisia
Facsimile:
216 71350411
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at Tunis, Republic of Tunisia, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Athorized Representative
Name: Marie Frangoise Marie-Nelly
Title: Director of Operations
OFFICE NATIONAL DE L'ASSAINISSEMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: Habib Omrane
Title: Pr6sident-Directeur G6n6ral
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to provide an environmentally safe disposal system for the treated
wastewater in the North of Tunis and increase availability for its reuse in the Project Area.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: Transfer of Treated Wastewater (TWW) to Increase Availibility for its Reuse
1. 
Installation of two (2) parallel pipelines to convey TWW from the current discharge point
at the El Khelij Canal in the Project Area and along an existing road to a storage and
regulation basin, and provision of technical assistance for the supervision of the said
installation.
2. 
Construction of a two-compartment basin for storage of TWW, and provision of technical
assistance for the supervision of the said construction.
3. 
Strengthening the coordination mechanisms among stakeholders involved in wastewater
reuse, including through designing and developing a reuse pilot in the Project Area, related
dissemination activities, training, and provision of technical assistance for the supervision
of said pilot.
4. 
Provision of equipment necessary to ensure the quality operation and appropriate
maintenance of the pipelines and basin installed under this Part A of the Project.
Part B: Improvement of the Discharge of TWW in the Mediterranean Sea
Construction of infrastructure for the discharge of TWW in the Mediterranean Sea,
including through:
1. 
Construction of a pumping station and installation of one (1) pressure pipeline to convey
TWW, following the north bank of the El Hissibne Oued in the Project Area to the location
of the submarine outfall referred to in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
Construction of a submarine outfall in the Mediterranean Sea of approximately six (6)
kilometers in length to discharge TWW at a depth of approximately twenty (20) meters.
3. 
Conducting a detailed review of the design of the submarine outfall and provision of
technical assistance for the supervision of its construction.
Part C: Monitoring and Capacity Strengthening
I. 
Strengthening the environmental monitoring systems in the Project Area.
2. 
Designing and implementing capacity-building activities, including the development of an
information system for water and sanitation customer management and billing, a financial
modeling tool, and carrying out of other institutional strengthening activities.
-6-
3. 
Preparing detailed designs for a submarine outfall in the south of Tunis for the discharge
of wastewater and a new wastewater treatment plant in the north of Tunis.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
The Borrower shall, until the completion of the Project, ensure that it maintains at all times
staff and financial resources appropriate for Project implementation.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Safeguards
The Borrower shall: (a) implement the Project in accordance with the ESIA, the EMP, and
the LAP, and shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provision of the
ESIA, the EMP, and the LAP, without the prior written approval of the Bank and subject
to compliance with applicable consultation and public disclosure requirements of the Bank;
and (b) ensure that adequate information on the implementation of the ESIA, the EMP, and
the LAP is suitably included in the Project Reports referred to in Section II.A of this
Schedule, including details of: (i) measures taken in furtherance of the ESIA, the EMP, and
the LAP; (ii) conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the smooth
implementation of the ESIA, the EMP, and the LAP; and (iii) remedial measures taken or
required to be taken to address such conditions.
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that all measures identified and described in the ESIA, the EMP,
and the LAP are taken in a timely manner.
3. 
Without limitation on the foregoing, the Borrower shall:
(a) 
prior to commencing civil works for any activity under the Project, and when
required under the ESIA and EMP, carry out specific public consultation in form
and in substance satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b) 
take all measures necessary and within its control to ensure that all processes
related to the implementation of the LAP, including any dispute resolution
processes related to the acquisition of land for the Project and the payment of
compensation, shall be carried out and completed in an efficient and timely manner
and satisfactory to the Bank.
4. 
In the event that any provision of the ESIA, the EMP or the LAP shall conflict with any
provision under this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
5. 
The Borrower shall ensure that all terms of reference for any technical assistance and
studies to be carried out under the Project are prepared in form and substance satisfactory
-8-
to the Bank and taking into account appropriate environmental and social safeguards
measures.
Section II. 
Proeect Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report shall
cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later
than one (1) month after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after
the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project
covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions
of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. In addition, the Borrower shall have its
financial statements reflecting its general operations and its financial condition (the
"General Financial Statements") prepared in accordance with consistently applied
accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, and audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards
acceptable to the Bank. Each audit of the Financial Statements and the General Financial
Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited
Financial Statements and the audited General Financial Statements for each such period
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods and Works. All goods and works required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth
or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this
Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. 
All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
-9-
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to the
corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the Procurement Guidelines, or
Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
1 .
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International
Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following methods, other
than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for procurement of goods and
works for those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following additional provisions:
(i) 
in the case of contracts financed or to be financed, in whole or in part,
out of the proceeds of the Loan, and for which the invitation to bid will
be issued on or after the date of this Agreement:
(A) 
the eligibility of bidders shall be as defined under Section I of
the Procurement Guidelines; accordingly, no bidder or
potential bidder shall be declared ineligible for reasons other
than those provided in Section I of the Procurement
Guidelines;
(B) 
no foreign bidder shall be required to submit a bid in
association with domestic firms as a condition for bidding;
(C) 
the bidding documents shall clearly set out the bid evaluation
process, the award criteria and the bidders' qualification
criteria;
(D) 
bidding opportunities shall be advertised with not less than
thirty (30) days for bid preparation;
(E) 
technical and financial bids shall always be publicly and
simultaneously opened, and such public bid opening shall
take place immediately or closely after the deadline for
submission of bids. No evaluation of bids shall take place at
the bid public opening session;
-10-
(F) 
prior to issuing the first call for bids, a draft standard bidding
document to be used under National Competitive Bidding
must be submitted to, and found acceptable by, the Bank;
(G) 
the procedures shall include publication of evaluation results
and of the details of the contract awarded;
(H) 
bids shall be evaluated based on price and on other criteria
disclosed in the bidding documents and quantified in
monetary terms, and no domestic preference or any other kind
of preferential treatment for national companies or for goods
of national origin shall be applied. The verification of the
compliance of bids to the technical requirements set forth in
the bidding documents shall not be limited to the technical
offer of the bidder which has offered the lowest price;
(I) 
the contract shall be awarded to the qualified bidder having
submitted the lowest evaluated responsive bid, and no
negotiation shall take place; and
(J) 
each bidding document and contract shall include provisions
stating the Bank's policy to sanction firms or individuals
which have engaged in fraud and corruption as set forth in the
Procurement Guidelines as well as the Bank's right to
inspection and audit.
(ii) 
in the case of contracts financed or to be financed, in whole or in part,
out of the proceeds of the Loan, and for which the invitation to bid was
issued prior to the date of this Agreement:
(A) 
the bidding document clearly explains the bid evaluation,
award criteria and bidder qualification criteria;
(B) 
any bidder registered in an eligible country, as defined in
paragraphs 1.6 to 1.8 of the Procurement Guidelines will be
eligible to bid; therefore no restriction based on nationality of
bidders or origin of goods shall apply and foreign bidders
shall not be subject to any unjustified requirement which will
affect their ability to bid;
(C) 
government-owned enterprises in the Borrower's country
may participate only if they can establish that they: (1) are
legally and financially autonomous; (2) operate under
commercial law, and (3) are independent from contracting
entity;
-11-
(D) 
bidders will be allowed to deliver their bids by mail or by
hand before the expiration of the deadline for submitting bids;
(E) 
technical and financial envelopes are submitted together and
opened in public, simultaneously during a unique session
open to the public for works, goods and non-consultant
services; amounts shall be read aloud during the public
session; bidders or their representatives are authorized to
attend the bid opening session. The date, time and place for
bid opening shall be announced in the invitation to bid; this
date and time shall be the same as for the deadline for receipt
of bids or immediately thereafter;
(F) 
bids are evaluated on price and any other criteria disclosed in
the bidding documents and quantified in monetary terms and
contracts are awarded to the qualified bidder having
submitted the lowest evaluated responsive bid, and price shall
not be negotiated with the lowest evaluated bidder except
under the provisions stated in paragraph 2.63 of the
Procurement Guidelines;
(G) 
procedures will include the publication of the evaluation
results, the contract award and provision for bidders to
protest;
(H) 
if foreign firms wish to participate, they shall be allowed to
do so and no provision for preferential treatment of national
firms or mandatory association with a national firm or prior
registration in the country of the Borrower shall be applied;
(I) 
prior to issuing the first call for bids, a draft standard bidding
document to be used under National Competitive Bidding
procurement must be submitted to and found acceptable by
the Bank; and
(J) 
each bidding document and contract for goods and works to
be financed from the proceeds of the Loan shall provide that
the supplier, contractor and subcontractor shall permit the
Bank, at its request, to inspect their accounts and records
relating to the bid submission and performance of the
contract, and to have said accounts and records audited by
auditors appointed by the Bank. The deliberate and material
violation by the supplier, contractor or subcontractor of such
provision may amount to obstructive practice.
-12-
(b) 
Direct Contracting
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-
and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following methods, other
than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of consultants'
services for those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan:
(a) 
Quality-based Selection
(b) 
Selection under a Fixed Budget
(c) 
Least Cost Selection
(d) 
Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications
(e) 
Single-source Selection of consulting firms
(f) 
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for
the Selection of Individual Consultants
(g) 
Single-source procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's Prior
Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank Disbursement
Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as
made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
-13-
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures
in each Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in EUR) 
(exclusive of Taxes)
(1) 
Goods, 
works, 
and 
16,159,500 
100%
consultants' services for the
Project
(2) Front-end Fee 
40,500 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 
2.03 
of 
this
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
16,200,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2019.
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
1. 
(a) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall maintain, for each of
its full fiscal years occurring during the period of implementation of the Project a
ratio of total operating revenues to total operating expenses of not less than 0.96.
(b) 
The Borrower shall, by December 31 each year, for each full fiscal year occurring
during the period of implementation of the Project:
(i) 
review whether it will meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in
respect of such year and the next following fiscal year; and
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank a report, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank, setting forth: (A) the results of such review, and (B) the actual ratio
of total operating revenues to total operating expenses maintained for the
preceding fiscal year.
(c) 
If any such review referred to in paragraph (b)(i) immediately above shows that
the Borrower would not meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the
Borrower's fiscal years covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly take
all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the structure
or levels of its rates) in order to meet such requirements.
-14-
(d) 
For the purposes of this Section:
(i) 
The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related to
operations, including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and
payments in lieu of taxes, and excluding depreciation and other non-
operating expenditures.
(ii) 
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all sources
related to operations.
2. 
(a) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall maintain, for each of
its full fiscal years occurring during the period of implementation of the Project a
ratio of current assets to current liabilities of not less than 0.57.
(b) 
The Borrower shall, by December 31 each year, for each full fiscal year occurring
during the period of implementation of the Project:
(i) 
review whether it will meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in
respect of such year and the next following fiscal year; and
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank a report, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank, setting forth: (A) the results of such review, and (B) the actual ratio
of current assets to current liabilities maintained for the preceding fiscal
year.
(c) 
If any such review referred to in paragraph (b)(i) immediately above shows that
the Borrower would not meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the
Borrower's fiscal years covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly take
all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the structure
or levels of its rates ) in order to meet such requirements.
(d) 
For the purposes of this Section:
(i) 
The term "current assets" means cash, all assets which could in the
ordinary course of business be converted into cash within twelve (12)
months, including accounts receivable, marketable securities, inventories
and pre-paid expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses within
the next fiscal year.
(ii) 
The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which will become due
and payable or could under circumstances then existing be called for
payment within twelve (12) months, including accounts payable, customer
advances, debt service requirements, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes,
and dividends.
-15-
(iii) 
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of
repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest and
other charges on, debt.
(iv) 
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to value,
in terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in another
currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful
rate of exchange at which such other currency is, at the time of such
valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the
Bank.
-16-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying:
(a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment
Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary,
to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each April 1 and October 1
Beginning October 1, 2021, 
2.50%
through April 1, 2041
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as
of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding
on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall
be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
-17-
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating
to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-18-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Affected Person" means a person who as a result of: (a) the involuntary taking
of land under the Project is affected in any of the following ways: (i) relocation or loss of
shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of
livelihood, whether or not the affected person must move to another location; or (b) the
involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected areas suffers
adverse impacts on his or her livelihood.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means: (a) except as provided in subparagraph (b) below,
the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed
by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006, and revised in
January 2011; and (b) in the case of contracts financed or to be financed, in whole or in
part, out of the proceeds of the Loan, and for which the invitation to bid was issued prior
to the date of this Agreement, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and
Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated
October 15, 2006.
3. 
"Basic Legislation" means the Guarantor's Law No. 74-73, dated August 3, 1974, as
amended and completed by the Guarantor's Law No. 93-41, dated April 19, 1993, pursuant
to which the Borrower has been established and is operating as an industrial and
commercial public institution.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
5. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means: (a) except as provided in subparagraph (b) below, the
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014);
and (b) in the case of contracts financed or to be financed, in whole or in part, out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and for which the invitation to bid was issued prior to the date of this
Agreement, "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers" published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006.
6. 
"EMP" means the Environmental Management Plan, dated April 30, 2010, and revised and
re-disclosed in the Borrower's territory on March 10, 2015, and in the Bank's InfoShop on
March 11, 2015, duly adopted by the Borrower, included in the ESIA, which sets out the
environmental mitigation and protection measures in respect of the carrying out of the
Project, as well as the administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the
implementation of said measures, as the same may be amended from time to time with the
prior written approval of the Bank.
7. 
"ESIA" means the environmental and social impact assessment, acceptable to the Bank,
prepared by the Borrower, dated April 30, 2010, and revised and re-disclosed in the
-19-
Borrower's territory on March 10, 2015, and in the Bank's InfoShop on March 11, 2015,
evaluating the environmental and social impact of the Project and setting forth, through the
EMP, the mitigating, compensating and monitoring measures for the Project, as the same
may be amended from time to time with the prior written approval of the Bank.
8. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
9. 
"Guarantee Agreement" means the agreement between the Guarantor and the Bank of even
date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Guarantee Agreement.
10. 
"Guarantor" means the Republic of Tunisia.
11. 
"LAP" means the Land Acquisition Plan dated April 30, 2010, duly adopted by the
Borrower, for the carrying out of land acquisition activities under the Project, which Plan
identifies the Project sites requiring land acquisition and sets forth the procedures to be
followed in the carrying out of said activities, as such Plan may be amended from time to
time with the prior written approval of the Bank.
12. 
"Original Loan" means the loan provided by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the
Original Loan Agreement.
13. 
"Original Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement for a Northern Tunis Wastewater
Project between the Borrower and the Bank, dated October 7, 2010, as amended to the date
of this Agreement (Loan No. 7917-TN). "Original Loan Agreement" includes all
appendices, schedules and agreements supplemental to the Original Loan Agreement.
14. 
"Original Project" means the Project described in Schedule I to the Original Loan
Agreement.
15. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means (a) except as provided in subparagraph (b) below, the
"Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised
July 2014); and (b) in the case of contracts financed or to be financed, in whole or in part,
out of the proceeds of the Loan, and for which the invitation to bid was issued prior to the
date of this Loan Agreement, "Guidelines: Procurement under 1BRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006.
16. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated July 21,
2016, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.25
of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance
with the provisions of said paragraphs.
-20-
17. 
"Project Area" means a part of the Guarantor's geographical territory consisting of the
Governorates of Tunis, Ariana, Manouba and Ben Arous and the maritime waters adjacent
to the Governorates of Tunis, Ariana and Ben Arous extending up to twelve (12) nautical
miles and comprising the Guarantor's territorial waters.
18. 
"TWW" means treated wastewater.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually
in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition
of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
