LOAN NUMBER 8608-YF
Loan Agreement
(Modernization and Optimization of Public Administration Program)
between
REPUBLIC OF SERBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
,IA 
/ 
16 
2016
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated HAZ 
, 2016, between REPUBLIC OF SERBIA
("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of sixty nine million Euro (EUR
69,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the program described in Schedule I to
this Agreement ("Program").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall
be deposited by the Bank into an account specified by the Borrower and acceptable
to the Bank.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General
Conditions.
-2-
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Program. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Program through its Ministry of Public
Administration and Local-Self Government (MPALSG), with the support of the
Collegium of State Secretaries in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Program is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE IV -TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty (180) days after the
date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
For the purposes of Section 10.02 of the General Conditions, the Borrower's
Representative, who, inter alia, may agree to modification of the provisions of this
Agreement on behalf of the Borrower through exchange of letters (unless
otherwise determined by the Borrower and the Bank), is its Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
20 Kneza Milosa St.
11000 Belgrade
Republic of Serbia
Facsimile:
(381-11) 3618-961
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at 
-
RAbc 
O1 -fjL 
' 
k as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF SERBIA
By
Authoriied R presentative
Name: 
/ 
1/70OVil
Title: 
tU/L/6kT 
OF
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By 
_ (
Auoorized Representative
Name: 
A?~w
Title: 
KriTh 0 
/066,4,
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Description
The objective of the Program is to improve efficiency in public sector employment
and finances.
The Program consists of supporting Objective 2 (Establishing a harmonized public
service system on merits and improvement of human resource management) and Objective
3 (Improving public financial management and public procurement) of the Action Plan for
the Implementation of the Public Administration Reform Strategy, including the following
activities:
1. 
Improving Human Resource Management.
Support the development of a system for managing the Borrower's
government's staff and monitoring the Law on Public Sector Employees
Salary System, through, inter alia, (a) the establishment of systems of
wages in public administration; (b) creation of a training program for
managers in State Administration; (c) creation of a training program for
employees in human resources units in State Administration Bodies; (d)
development and management of the Registry of Employees in the Public
Sector; (e) implementation of ceilings on the maximum number of staff,
selective downsizing and preparation; (f) monitoring of implementation of
the new wages system and measurement of financial effects; (g)
preparation and adoption of bylaws for enforcement of Law on Public
Sector Employees Salary System (regulations on compensations of costs
and other income); and (h) implementation of an affordable, market-based
pay and grading system in the public administration.
2. 
Improving Financial Management.
Support the planning, management and supervision of the financial and
fiscal system of the Borrower, through, inter alia: (a) the strengthening of
budget execution and monitoring to ensure improved coverage of budget
beneficiaries in the Financial Management Information System (FMIS);
(b) the improvement of financial and budget information, commitment
control and arrears; (c) monitoring and control of budget execution of
Indirect Budget Beneficiaries; (d) supporting Treasury Administration
operations; expansion and technological upgrading of capacity for more
efficient business; and (e) improvements in business process automation.
-6-
3. 
Improving Public Procurement Management.
Support, inter alia: (a) the training of officers involved in public
procurement within Contracting Authorities of the Borrower; (b) the
development and implementation 
of Framework Agreements for
Contracting Authorities; (c) the preparation by Public Procurement Office
of procurement tools and manuals for Contracting Authorities and
Economic Operators; (d) the development of a systematic approach to
measure the performance of the public procurement system; (e) the
preparation of a draft new law on public procurement; (f) introduction of
the higher training level for certified public procurement officials; and (g)
the enhanced use of information and communication technology (ICT) (e-
Government) by Contracting Authorities and Economic Operators 
to
enhance efficiency in procurement.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Program Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Program Fiduciary, Environmental and Social Systems
1. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the
Borrower shall carry out the Program, or cause the Program to be carried out, in
accordance with financial management, procurement and environmental and social
management systems acceptable to the Bank ("Program Fiduciary, Environmental
and Social Systems") which are designed to ensure that:
(a) 
the Loan proceeds are used for their intended purposes, with due attention
to the principles of economy, efficiency, effectiveness, transparency and
accountability; and
(b) 
the actual and potential adverse environmental and social impacts of the
Program are identified, avoided, minimized, or mitigated, as the case may
be, all through an informed decision-making process.
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Program is carried out in accordance with the
ESSA, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. The Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate, or waive the ESSA, or any provisions thereof, without prior approval of
the Bank.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
carry out the Program, or cause the Program to be carried out, in accordance with
the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Other Program Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
1. 
Program Institutions
Without limitation on the generality of Part A of this Section I, the Borrower shall:
(a) 
carry out the Program through the MPALSG, which shall oversee the day
to day management and execution of the Program;
(b) 
maintain the Collegium of State Secretaries, comprised by State Secretary-
level functionaries of individual ministries of the Borrower's government,
with resources, staffing and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
-8-
for purposes of advising the MPALSG on matters relative to the carrying
out of the Program;
(c) 
carry out its DLR verification obligations through the Public Policy
Secretariat, with the support of an independent auditor; and
(d) 
cause the MPALSG to be supported in the carrying out of the Program by
the Ministry of Finance, the Treasury Administration, the Public
Procurement Office, the Public Policy Secretariat, the State Audit
Institution, the National Employment Service, and the Human Resource
Management Service, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
2. 
Additional Program Implementation Arrangements
(a) 
Without limitation on the generality of Part A of this Section I, the
Borrower shall carry out the Action Plan for the Implementation of the
Public Administration Reform Strategy in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank.
(b) 
The Borrower shall ensure to provide the necessary resources to the
independent verification of the DLRs through the Public Policy
Secretariat, with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
Section II. 
Excluded Activities
The Borrower shall ensure that the Program excludes any activities which, in the
opinion of the Bank, are likely to have significant adverse impacts that are
sensitive, diverse, or unprecedented on the environment and/or affected people.
Section III. 
Program Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation; Audits
A. 
Program Reports
The Borrower, through MPALSG, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the
Program and prepare Program Reports in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions. Each Program Report shall cover the
period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than
sixty days after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Program Financial Audits
Without limitation on the generality of Section L.A of this Schedule 2 and Section
5.09 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall have the Financial Statements
audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General
Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one
-9-
Fiscal Year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such
period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one Fiscal Year after the end
of such period.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank may specify from time to time by notice to the Borrower
to: (a) pay the Front-end Fee; and (b) finance the Program Expenditures, on the
basis of the results ("Disbursement Linked Results" or "DLRs") achieved by the
Borrower, as measured against specific indicators ("Disbursement Linked
Indicators" or "DLIs"); all as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 of this Part A.
2. 
The following table specifies each category of withdrawal of the proceeds of the
Loan (including the Disbursement Linked Indicators as applicable) ("Category"),
the Disbursement Linked Results for each Category (as applicable), and the
allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category:
Disbursement
Category 
Linked Result
(including Disbursement 
Disbursement 
Amount of the 
Scalability
Linked Indicator as 
Linked Result 
Loan Allocated 
Formula
applicable) 
(as applicable) 
(expressed in EUR) 
(as applicable)
(1) DLI #1: Percentage of 
DLR#l; from 
DLR#1: 
Not scalable.
Public Administration 
baseline 0 to at least 
EUR 1,040,000
Employee Positions 
70% by 06/30/2017:
assigned to pay grades as 
EUR 1,040,000
per the Law on Public
Sector Employees Salary
System.
(2) DLI #2: Percentage of 
DLR#2: from 
DLR#2: 
DLR#2: Scalable:
Public Administration 
baseline 0 to up to 
EUR 11,040,000 
EUR122,667 per
Employees assigned to new 
90% by 12/31/2018: 
each 1% of
pay grades as per the Law 
EUR 11,040,000 
Public
on Public Sector Employees 
Administration
Salary System. 
Employees
assigned to new
pay grades as per
the Law on
Public Sector
Employees
Salary System
-10-
Disbursement
Category 
Linked Result
(including Disbursement 
Disbursement 
Amount of the 
Scalability
Linked Indicator as 
Linked Result 
Loan Allocated 
Formula
applicable) 
(as applicable) 
(expressed in EUR) 
(as applicable)
(3) DLI#3: Total number of 
DLR#3.1: Total 
DLR#3 
Not scalable.
Public Administration 
number of Public 
EUR5,520,000
Employees at or under 
Administration
annual ceiling prescribed by 
Employees not to
the Law on Ceilings on the 
exceed the
Number of Employees 
maximum
prescribed by the
Law on Ceilings on
the Number of
Employees for
calendar year 2016:
EUR 1,840,000
DLR#3.2: Total
number of Public
Administration
Employees not to
exceed the
maximum
prescribed by the
Law on Ceilings on
the Number of
Employees for
calendar year 2017:
EUR1,840,000
DLR#3.3: Total
number of Public
Administration
Employees not to
exceed the
maximum
prescribed by the
Law on Ceilings on
the Number of
Employees for
calendar year 2018:
EUR1,840,000
-11-
Disbursement
Category 
Linked Result
(including Disbursement 
Disbursement 
Amount of the 
Scalability
Linked Indicator as 
Linked Result 
Loan Allocated 
Formula
applicable) 
(as applicable) 
(expressed in EUR) 
(as applicable)
(4) DLI#4: Percentage of 
DLR#4. 1:100% for 
DLR#4 
Not scalable for
Redundant Public 
calendar year 2017: 
EUR13,627,500 
the first 99% in
Administration Employees 
EUR6,813,750 
each calendar
receiving Redundancy 
year 2017 and
Payments pursuant to 
DLR#4.2: 100% for 
2018
provisions of Law on 
calendar year 2018:
Ceilings on the Number of 
EUR6,813,750 
Scalable for the
Employees, Civil Servants 
next 1% in each
Law, and Labor Law. 
calendar year
2017 and 2018:
Amount equal to
EUR 136,275/
1% of number of
Redundant Public
Administration
Employees, on a
per capita basis.
(5) DLI#5: Percentage of 
DLR#5.1: from 
DLR#5: 
DLR#5.1:
Public Procurement 
baseline 62% to 
EUR5,520,000 
Scalable:
Contracts within the 
65% until 
EUR613,333 per
category of public 
12/31/2016: 
percentage point
authorities over 5,000,000 
EUR1,840,000 
increase, up to
RSD in value, signed in a 
and including
Fiscal Year of the 
DLR#5.2: from 
65%.
Borrower, in 90 days or less 
baseline of result as
between the date of 
of 12/31/2016 to 
DLR#5.2:
Issuance of Bidding 
68% until 
Scalable: Amount
Documents and the date of 
12/31/2017: 
per percentage
signing of the Public 
EUR1,840,000 
point increase, up
Procurement Contracts. 
to and including
DLR#5.3: from 
68%, equal to:
baseline of result as 
(total percentage
of 12/31/2017 to 
point increase) /
71% until 
(balance of
12/31/2018: 
EUR5,520,000 -
EUR1,840,000 
amount paid
under DLR# 5.1)
DLR#5.3:
Scalable: Amount
-12-
Disbursement
Category 
Linked Result
(including Disbursement 
Disbursement 
Amount of the 
Scalability
Linked Indicator as 
Linked Result 
Loan Allocated 
Formula
applicable) 
(as applicable) 
(expressed in EUR) 
(as applicable)
per percentage
point increase, up
to and including
71%, equal to:
(total percentage
point increase) /
(balance of
EUR5,520,000) -
(amount paid
under DLR#5.1 +
amount paid
under DLR#5.2)
(6) DLI#6: Value of Public 
DLR#6: from 
DLR#6: 
DLR#6: Scalable.
Procurement Contracts 
baseline RSD 26.6 
EUR5,520,000 
EUR78,521 per
awarded through 
billion up to RSD 
each I billion
Framework Agreements (in 
96.9 billion until 
RSD.
RSD) 
12/31/2018
(7) DLI#7: Number of 
DLR#7: from 
DLR#7: 
DLR#7: Scalable.
Indirect Budget 
baseline 0 up to 526 
EUR5,520,000 
EURIO,494 per
Beneficiaries included in 
until 12/31/2018 
each Indirect
the FMIS. 
Budget
Beneficiary.
(8) DLI#8: Percentage of 
DLR#8: from 
DLR#8: 
DLR#8: Scalable
commitments in budget 
baseline [60%] up to 
EURi 1,040,000 
EUR368,000 per
execution system entered 
90% by 12/31/2018 
percentage point
within the required deadline 
increase.
per the Law on Deadlines
for Payments in
Commercial Transactions
(%)
(9) Front-end Fee to be paid 
Not applicable 
EUR172,500 
Not applicable
pursuant to Section 2.03 of
this Agreement in
accordance with Section
2.07(b) of the General
Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
69,000,000
-13-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
for purposes of Section 2.05 of the General Conditions, for payments for
Program Expenditures made prior to the date of this Agreement and
(b) 
for any DLR under Categories (1) through (8), until and unless the
Borrower has furnished evidence satisfactory to the Bank that said DLR
has been achieved.
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.1(b) of this Section, the Borrower may
withdraw: an amount not to exceed seventeen million two hundred and fifty
thousand Euro (EUR 17,250,000) as an advance under Categories (1) through (8),
provided, however, in each case, that if the DLRs for said Categories, in the
opinion of the Bank, are not achieved or only partially achieved by the date by
which the said DLR is set to be achieved, the Borrower shall refund such advance
(or portion of such advance as determined by the Bank in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph (3) of this Part B) to the Bank promptly upon notice
thereof by the Bank. Except as otherwise agreed with the Borrower, the Bank shall
cancel the amount so refunded. Any further withdrawals requested as an advance
under any Category shall be permitted only on such terms and conditions as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.1 (b) of this Section, if the Bank is not
satisfied that any of the DLRs under Categories (1) through (8) has been achieved
by the date by which the said DLR is set to be achieved, the Bank may, at any time,
by notice to the Borrower, decide, in its sole discretion, to: (a) in respect of
Categories (2), (4) (in respect of the Scalable portion only), (5), (6), (7), and (8),
authorize the withdrawal of such lesser amount of the unwithdrawn proceeds of
the Loan then allocated to said Category which, in the opinion of the Bank,
corresponds to the extent of achievement of said DLR, said lesser amount to be
calculated in accordance with the formula set out in the column "Disbursement
Linked Result Scalability Formula" of the table under Section IV.A.2 of this
Schedule 2; or (b) reallocate all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan then
allocated to said DLR to any other DLR ; or (c) cancel all or a portion of the
proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said DLR.
4. 
The Closing Date is February 29, 2020.
-14-
5. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section IV, if at any time after
the Closing Date the Borrower has failed to provide evidence satisfactory to the
Bank that the Withdrawn Loan Balance does not exceed the total amount of
Program Expenditures paid by the Borrower, exclusive of any such expenditures
financed by any other financier or by the Bank or the Association under any other
loan, credit or grant, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank,
refund to the Bank such excess amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance. The Bank
shall cancel the refunded amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance.
-15-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each April 15 and October 15
Beginning April 15, 2021
through April 15, 2032 
4.17%
On October 15, 2032 
4.09%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
-16-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
-17-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Action Plan for the Implementation of the Public Administration Reform
Strategy" or "Action Plan" means the Borrower's action plan set forth in the
Government Action Plan for the Implementation of the Public Administration
Reform Strategy in the Republic of Serbia, 2015-2017, adopted on March 19, 2015
and published in the Borrower's Official Gazette No. 31/2015, as may be amended
from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the Bank's "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Program-for-Results Financing" dated
February 1, 2012, and revised July 10, 2015.
3. 
"Bidding Documents" means those documents defined under Article 61 of the
Public Procurement Law.
4. 
"Budget Law" means the Borrower's law pertaining to the annual budget of the
Borrower.
5. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
6. 
"Civil Servants Law" means the Borrower's law published in the Borrower's
Official Gazette No. 79/2005, 81/2005 - correction, 83/2005 -correction, 64/2007,
67/2007 - correction, 116/2008, 104/2009 and 99/2014.
7. 
"Collegium of State Secretaries" means the working group of the Public
Administration Reform Council established to coordinate implementation of the
Public Administration Reform Strategy and its Action Plan as well as the reporting
on results from the implementation thereof, established by the Public
Administration Reform Council Decision 23 No. 119-10554/2014, dated August
28, 2014.
8. 
"Consolidated Treasury Account of the Republic of Serbia" means a single account
opened in the National Bank of Serbia and kept with the Treasury Administration,
pursuant to the Law on Budget System.
9. 
"Contracting Authority" means an entity of the Borrower which meets the criteria
set forth in Article 2 of the Public Procurement Law.
10. 
"Disbursement Linked Indicator" or "DLI" means in respect of a given Category,
the indicator related to said Category as set forth in the tables in Section IV.A.2 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-18-
11. 
"Disbursement Linked Result" or "DLR" means in respect of a given Category,
the result under said Category as set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule
2 to this Agreement, on the basis of the achievement of which, the amount of the
Loan allocated to said result may be withdrawn in accordance with the provisions
of said Section IV.
12. 
"Economic Operators" means a bidder who meets the criteria set forth in Article
3, first paragraph, point (3) of the Public Procurement Law.
13. 
"ESSA" means the Environmental and Social Systems Assessment, dated
February 5, 2015, and disclosed on the Bank's Infoshop on March 9, 2016, which
sets forth the criteria to monitor environmental and social systems performance
during the Program implementation, and identifies actions to enhance the systems
during the Program preparation and implementation, including an action plan
associated to the retrenchment of Public Administration Employees.
14. 
"Financial Management Information System" or "FMIS" means a software
platform utilized by the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and Treasury
Administration for budget planning and execution and better management of
public finances.
15. 
"Fiscal Year" or "FY" means the twelve month period between and including
January I and December 31 of a year.
16. 
"Framework Agreement" means an agreement which meets the criteria set forth in
Article 3, first paragraph, point (20) of the Public Procurement Law.
17. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
18. 
"Human Resource Management Service" means the Borrower's entity in charge
of managing human resources in ministries, special organizations, services of the
Government and support services of administrative districts, established and
operating pursuant to the Borrower's Regulation on establishment of Human
Resources Management Service, published in the Borrower's Official Gazette
Nol06/2005, as amended through the Borrower's Decision on Amending
Regulation on establishment of Human Resources Management Service published
in the Borrower's Official Gazette No 109/2009, or any legal successor thereto.
19. 
"Indirect Budget Beneficiaries" has the meaning ascribed to the term under the
Law on Budget System.
20. 
"Issuance of Bidding Documents" means the posting of tender documents on the
Public Procurement Portal, pursuant to Article 62 of the Public Procurement Law.
-19-
21. 
"Labor Law" means the Borrower's law published in the Borrower's Official
Gazette No. 24/2005, 61/2005, 54/2009, 32/2013 and 75/2014.
22. 
"Law on Budget System" means the Borrower's law published in the Borrower's
Official Gazette No. 54/2009, 73/2010, 101/2010, 101/2011, 93/2012, 62/2013,
63/2013- correction, 108/2013, 142/2014, 68/2015 and 103/2015.
23. 
"Law on Ceilings on the Number of Employees" means the Borrower's law
published in the Borrower's Official Gazette No. 68/2015.
24. 
"Law on Deadlines for Payments in Commercial Transactions" means the
Borrower's law published in the Borrower's Official Gazette No. 119/2012 and
68/2015.
25. 
"Law on Public Sector Employees Salary System" means the Borrower's law
adopted by the National Assembly on February 29' and published in the
Borrower's Official Gazette No. 18/2016.
26. 
"Law on Registry of all Employees, Elected, Nominated and Appointed and
Engaged Persons within Public Funds Beneficiaries" means the Borrower's law
published in the Borrower's Official Gazette No. 68/2015 and 79/2015.
27. 
"Law on State Administration" means the Borrower's law published in the
Borrower's Official Gazette No. 79/2005, 101/2007, 95/2010 and 99/2014.
28. 
"Ministry of Finance" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance, or any legal
successor thereto.
29. 
"MPALSG" means the Borrower's Ministry of Public Administration and Local-
Self Government, or any legal successor thereto.
30. 
"National Employment Service" means the Borrower's entity in charge of
providing services to unemployed persons and employers, established and
operating pursuant to the Borrower's Statute of the National Employment Service
published in the Borrower's Official Gazette No. 2/2010, as amended through the
Borrower's Decisions on Amending the Statute of the National Employment
Service published in the Borrower's Official Gazette No. 43/2011, 16/2012 and
90/2015, or any legal successor thereto.
31. 
"Program Expenditures" includes (a) capital, operational, and salary costs under
the Borrower's budget programs for MPALSG, Treasury Administration, Public
Procurement Office, National Employment Service, State Audit Institution, Public
Policy Secretariat, and Human Resource Management Service, as monitored for
the Borrower's budget codes set out in the Budget Law numbers 411 through 416,
421, through 426, 451, 462, 463, 482, 483, 485, 511, 512, and 515, and (b)
-20-
severance costs related to the layoff of Redundant Public Administration
Employees.
32. 
"Program Fiduciary, Environmental and Social Systems" means the Borrower's
systems for the Program referred to in Section I.A.1. of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
33. 
"Public Administration Employee Positions" means positions in all ministries,
public services, public agencies and local self-government of the Borrower
(pursuant to Article 1, Paragraph 3 of the Law on Public Sector Employees Salary
System), excluding police officers, the military and state-owned enterprises.
34. 
"Public Administration Employees" means personnel on open-ended contracts in
ministries, public services, public agencies and local self-government of the
Borrower (pursuant to Article 1, Paragraph 3 of the Law on Public Sector
Employees Salary System), excluding police officers, the military and state-owned
enterprises.
35. 
"Public Administration Reform Council" means Borrower's central strategic body
for the reform of public administration, tasked to define strategic directions of the
reform of public administration, to initiate and recommend to the Borrower's
government, measures and activities to be taken in regard to the reform of the
public administration, to review and adopt reports on the achieved results,
established by the Decision on Establishing a Public Administration Reform
Council on 15 August, 2014 (Borrower's Official Gazette No. 79/2014, 86/2014,
120/2014 and 22/2015).
36. 
"Public Policy Secretariat" means the Borrower's Public Policy Secretariat
reporting to the office of the Borrower's Prime Minister, or any legal successor
thereto.
37. 
"Public Procurement Contract" means an agreement which meets the criteria set
forth in Article 3, first paragraph, point (2) of the Public Procurement Law.
38. 
"Public Procurement Law" means the Borrower's law published in the Borrower's
Official Gazette No. 124/2012, 14/2015 and 68/2015.
39. 
"Public Procurement Office" means the Borrower's organization which meets the
criteria set forth in Article 135 of the Public Procurement Law, or any legal
successor thereto.
40. 
"Public Procurement Portal" means a web service managed by the Public
Procurement Office which contains data on all public procurement procedures,
decisions of the Borrower's Republic Commission for Protection of Rights in
Public Procurement Procedures, opinions of justification to apply negotiation
-21-
procedures, public procurement plans, reports on concluded public procurement
contracts, contracts of public private partnership and concessions.
41. 
"Public Administration Reform Strategy" means Government Strategy for Reform
of the Public Sector adopted on January 24' 2014 (Borrower's Official Gazette
No. 9/2014 and 42/2014- correction).
42. 
"Redundant Public Administration Employee" means an employee above the
maximum number of employees in a given year designated for separation to
achieve the required maximum number of employees for that year per the Law on
Ceilings on the Number of Employees, and entitled to receive a Redundancy
Payment.
43. 
"Redundancy Payments" means sum of money payable by an employer to the
employee designated for separation in line with the Law on Ceilings on the
Number of Employees, Civil Servants Law and Labor Law.
44. 
"Registry of Employees in the Public Sector" means the registry of public sector
employees of the Borrower, established in the Law on Registry of all Employees,
Elected, Nominated and Appointed and Engaged Persons within Public Funds
Beneficiaries.
45. 
"RSD" means Serbian Dinar, the lawful currency of the Borrower.
46. 
"State Administration" means the part of the executive power of the Borrower, in
charge of carrying out administrative tasks, in line with and pursuant to, the Law
on State Administration.
47. 
"State Administration Bodies" means ministries, administrative authorities within
the ministries and special organizations in line with the provisions of the Law on
State Administration.
48. 
"State Audit Institution" means the Borrower's independent authority for auditing
public funds, established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's law published
in the Borrower's Official Gazette No. 101/2005, 54/2007 and 36/2010, or any
legal successor thereto.
49. 
"Treasury Administration" means the entity within the Borrower's Ministry of
Finance responsible for cash management, approval and execution of payments of
the budget funds in line with the Borrower's Budget Laws, monitoring of
expenditures, budget accounting and financial reporting and managing the
Consolidated Treasury Account of the Republic of Serbia, or any legal successor
thereto.
-22-
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
Wherever used throughout the General Conditions, the term "the Project" is
modified to read "the Program", the term "the Project Agreement" is modified to
read "the Program Agreement", the term "Project Implementing Entity" is
modified to read "the Program Implementing Entity", the term "Project Report" is
modified to read "Program Report"; and the term "Eligible Expenditures" is
modified to read "Program Expenditures".
2. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the amendments set forth below.
3. 
Section 2.02, Special Commitment by the Bank, is deleted in its entirety, and the
subsequent Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
4. 
In Section 2.02 (originally numbered as Section 2.03), the heading "Applications
for Withdrawal or for Special Commitment" is replaced with "Applications for
Withdrawal", and the phrase "or to request the Bank to enter into a Special
Commitment" is deleted.
5. 
The section originally numbered as Section 2.04, Designated Accounts is deleted
in its entirety, and the subsequent Sections in Article II are renumbered
accordingly.
6. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (originally numbered as Section 2.05), Eligible
Expenditures (renamed "Program Expenditures" in accordance with paragraph I
of this Section II), is modified to read: "(a) the payment is for the financing of the
reasonable cost of expenditures required for the Program and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of the Legal
Agreements;".
7. 
The last sentence of Section 2.04 (originally numbered as Section 2.06), Financing
Taxes, is modified to read: "To that end, if the Bank at any time determines that
the amount of any such Tax is excessive, or that such Tax is discriminatory or
otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, exclude such
amount or such Tax from the Program Expenditures to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, as required to ensure consistency with such policy of the
Bank."
-23-
8. 
Section 2.06 (originally numbered as Section 2.08), Reallocation, is modified to
read:
"Notwithstanding any allocation of an amount of the Loan to a withdrawal
category under the Loan Agreement, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
reallocate any other amount of the Loan to such category if the Bank reasonably
determines at any time that such reallocation is appropriate for the purposes of the
Program.
9. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. 
The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date."
10. 
Section 7.01, Cancellation by the Borrower, is modified to read: "The Borrower
may, by notice to the Bank, cancel any amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance."
i1. 
Paragraph 
(d) 
of 
Section 
7.03, 
Cancellation by 
the 
Bank, entitled
"Misprocurement", is deleted, and subsequent paragraphs are relettered
accordingly.
12. 
Section 7.04, Amounts Subject to Special Commitment not Affected by
Cancellation or Suspension by the Bank, is deleted in its entirety, and subsequent
Sections in Article VII and references to such Sections are renumbered
accordingly.
13. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above.
14. 
A new paragraph 19 is inserted with the following definition of "Commitment
Charge", and the remaining paragraphs are renumbered accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
-24-
15. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
16. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any
prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of
a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable
upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any
Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
17. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
18. 
Renumbered paragraph 88 (originally paragraph 87) of the Appendix, setting forth
the definition of "Special Commitment" is deleted in its entirety, and all
subsequent paragraphs are renumbered accordingly.
