LOAN NUMBER 8568-CN
Loan Agreement
(Urumqi Urban Transport Project II)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
,2016
7
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8568-CN
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
A 2016, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
CHINA ("Borrower") and INTERNATONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE I -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred and forty million
Dollars ($140,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08
of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter
of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
-2-
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.09. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure
Limit (as said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of
this Section), the Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate
of one half of one percent (0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess
Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for
each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if any)
shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
-3-
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set
forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day
during which the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure
Limit, the product of: (A) the total amount of said excess; and
(B) the ratio of all (or, if the Bank so determines, a portion) of
the Loan to the aggregate amount of all (or the equivalent
portions) of the loans made by the Bank to the Borrower and to
other borrowers guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject
to an exposure surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably
determined from time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the
Bank's financial exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded,
would subject the Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as
determined from time to time by the Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total
financial exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by
the Bank.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and the Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that any
of the parties to the Subsidiary Agreements shall have failed to perform any of
their respective obligations thereunder.
4.02 
The Co-financing Deadline for the effectiveness of the Co-financing Agreement
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
-4-
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement - UCTRC has been executed on behalf of
Urumqi Municipality and UCTRC in accordance with Section I.A.2 of
the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
(b) 
The Subsidiary Agreement - UUTIC has been executed on behalf of
Urumqi Municipality and UUTIC in accordance with Section I.A.2 of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.
(c) 
The Co-financing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of UUTIC to
make withdrawals under it (other than the effectiveness of this
Agreement) have been falfilled.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the
Subsidiary Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified by Urumqi
Municipality, UCTRC and UUTIC, respectively, and are legally binding upon
the parties thereto in accordance with their terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Xicheng District
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Facsimile:
(86-10) 6855-2077
-5-
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at Beijing, People's Republic of China, as of the day and year first above
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
B y
Authorized Representative
Name:
INTERNATIONAL B74 FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Au orized Representative
Name: 
e34fll
Title: 
'--- 
C
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve mobility in selected transport corridors
in Urumqi.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A. 
Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) Corridors
Construction of three BRT lines (Nos. 4, 6 and 6-b) including, inter alia: (a) road
rehabilitation 
and reconfiguration of existing lanes, installation of lane
segregation and pavement markings, and construction of BRT station platforms;
(b) procurement of BRT operations equipment and supporting systems; and (c)
procurement of buses.
Part B. 
Comprehensive Transport Information Management System
Development of a city-wide,transport information management system including,
inter alia: (a) development of comprehensive transport information management
platforms; (b) installation of fiber optic cable network between different data
centers, installation of traffic data collection equipment along major roads, and
development of a GIS-based transport data system; and (c) improvement of the
parking management and smart card systems, installation of bus operating
systems, and upgrading of GPS-based taxi onboard equipment.
Part C. 
Public Transport Infrastructure
1 .
Construction of a public transport hub at the south square of Urumqi's high speed
rail station, including a BRT terminal, a regular bus terminal and a public
transport dispatching and information center.
2. 
Construction of public transport terminals at Beijiao, Midong and the north
square of Urumqi's high speed rail station.
3. 
Construction of two public transport parking and maintenance facilities at
Sangong and Midong areas.
-7-
Part D. 
Capacity Building
Provision of: (a) technical assistance support and training activities, including the
carrying out of Project related studies in areas concerning urban transport
planning and operation; and (b) Project implementation support, carrying out of
monitoring and evaluation activities, as well as Project management-related
training, capacity building, and study tours.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section 1. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Financing Arrangements
1. 
For the purposes of carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make available
the proceeds of the Loan to the Project Implementing Entity, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including the following principal terms:
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars or any other
Currency as the Loan may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion (such principal amount determined on the date, or
respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of the value of
the currency or currencies so withdrawn.
(b) 
The principal amount so made available (including an amount equal to
the fee paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement and any premium
for Interest Rate Caps or Interest Rate Collars paid pursuant to Section
2.08(c) of this Agreement and Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions
shall be recovered over a period of thirty years (30) years, inclusive of a
grace period of five (5) years.
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of
Section 2.05 of this Agreement.
(d) 
A Commitment Charge shall be charged equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to: (a) manage,
operate, monitor, transfer and reconcile the proceeds of the Loan made available
to it pursuant to paragraph I above in accordance with arrangements and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank; (b) take all required actions, including
provision of timely consents and approvals as may be necessary, to facilitate the
utilization of said Loan proceeds and the implementation of the Project and, to
enable the Project Implementing Entity to comply with its undertakings under the
Project Agreement; and (c) maintain all relevant records and documents related
to the Loan and the Project and provide promptly such documents and records,
including all other information, as may be requested by the Borrower or the Bank
from time to time.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Safeguards
The Borrower shall take, and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to take,
all measures necessary to comply with, or all measures necessary to enable the
Project Implementing Entity to comply with the provisions of Section I.C of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Results Framework.
Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall
be furnished to the Bank not later than sixty (60) days after the end of the period
covered by such report.
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall
be furnished to the Bank not later than three months after the Closing Date.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the Bank, as part
of the Project Report, not later than sixty (60) days after the end of each calendar
semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the
semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. 
Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. The Borrower
shall make, or cause the Project Implementing Entity to make, the audited
Financial Statements publicly available in a timely fashion and in a manner
acceptable to the Bank.
-10-
Section M. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and M of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, El, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive
Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set forth in the box below; (b) Direct
Contracting; and (c) Shopping.
The procedures applicable to the procurement of goods, works, and non-
consulting services under contracts awarded on the basis of National
Competitive Bidding ("NCB") shall be the open tendering procedures set forth
in the Borrower's Law on Tendering and Bidding promulgated by its Order No.
21 dated August 30, 1999; provided, however, that such procedures shall be
subject to the provisions of Section 1, Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of Section In, and
Appendix 1 of the Procurement Guidelines, and the additional provisions in the
following. In the event of a conflict between the Borrower's procedures and
these NCB Procedure Modifications, the latter shall govern.
(i) 
Eligibility to participate in a procurement process and to be awarded a
Bank-financed contract shall be as defined under Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines; accordingly, no bidder or potential bidder
shall be declared ineligible for such contract for reasons other than
those provided in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines. 
No
restriction based on nationality of bidders and/or origin of goods shall
apply, and foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate in NCB
without application of restrictive conditions.
(ii) 
All invitations to prequalify or bid shall be advertised in a national
newspaper of wide circulation in the Borrower's country, or on a widely
used website / electronic portal with free national and international
access acceptable to the Bank except for goods or non-consulting
services contracts that are estimated to cost less than $300,000
equivalent each, or works contracts that are estimated to cost less than
$2,000,000 each, which may be advertised in a provincial daily
newspaper. 
Such advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for
prospective bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding documents and
prepare and submit their responses. In any event, a minimum of thirty
(30) days shall be given to bidders between the date of such
advertisement (or the date of availability of bidding documents,
whichever is later) and the deadline for the submission of bids, and the
advertisement and bidding documents shall specify the deadline for the
submission of bids. In the case of such advertisement on a website 
electronic portal, the notice shall remain readily accessible nationally
and internationally until at least the deadline for the submission of bids.
Potential bidders shall be allowed to inspect and purchase bidding
documents at any time prior to the deadline for the submission of bids.
(iii) 
Standard Bidding Documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
(iv) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of evaluating the
qualification of each bidder shall be specified in detail in the bidding
documents.
(v) 
Prequalification procedures and documents acceptable to the Bank shall
be used for large, complex and/or specialized works. Verification of the
information upon which a bidder was prequalified, including current
commitments, shall be carried out at the time of contract award, along
with the bidder's capability with respect to personnel and equipment.
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification documents shall be allowed to bid, and there shall be no
limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. Where pre-qualification is
not used, the qualification of the bidder who is recommended for award
of contract shall be assessed by post-qualification, applying the
-12-
qualification criteria stated in the bidding documents.
(vi) 
Registration shall not be used to assess bidders' qualifications. 
A
bidder shall not be required to register as a condition for inspecting or
purchasing bidding documents, submitting its bid or receiving contract
award. 
A bidder determined to be the lowest evaluated responsive
bidder, shall be given reasonable opportunity of registering (if required)
before contract signing without any let or hindrance. Bidding shall not
be restricted to any particular class of contractors, and non-classified
contractors shall also be eligible to bid.
(vii) 
No margins of preference of any sort shall be given to bidders, such as
on the basis of their location, place of incorporation, or affinity with the
geographical area in which the Project activities will take place.
(viii) 
All bidders who are awarded contracts for works and single-
responsibility contracts shall be required to provide performance
security in an amount sufficient to protect the Borrower or the Project
Implementing Entity / Entities, as the case may be, in case of breach of
contract by the contractor, and the bidding documents shall specify the
required form and amount of such security and any other potential
damages for such breach.
(ix) 
Bidders shall be allowed to submit bids by mail or in person.
(x) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an
opportunity 
to be present (either in person or through their
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not be
required to be present at the bid opening.
(xi) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding documents
and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the form of pass/fail
requirements.
(xii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price exceeds
any cost estimate or falls outside any margin or bracket of prices or
average bids established by the Borrower or the Project Implementing
Entity / Entities, as the case may be. Rejection of all bids or re-bidding
shall not be allowed solely because the number of bids is less than three
(3), and rejection of all bids or rebidding shall not take place without
the Bank's prior written agreement.
(xiii) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive
bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of
capability and resources and whose bid has been determined: (A) to be
substantially responsive to the bidding documents; and (B) to offer the
-13-
lowest evaluated cost. The winning bidder shall not be required, as a
condition of award, to undertake responsibilities for work or to assume
other obligations not stipulated in the bidding documents or otherwise
to modify the bid as originally submitted. 
No negotiations shall be
permitted except with the Bank's no-objection.
(xiv} 
In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding document
and contract shall include provisions stating the Bank's policy to
sanction firms or individuals found to have engaged in fraud and
corruption as set forth in the Procurement Guidelines.
(xv) 
In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding document
and contract shall include provisions stating the Bank's policy with
respect to inspection and audit of accounts, records and other
documents relating to the submission of bids and contract performance.
(xvi) 
Government-owned enterprises in the Borrower's country may be
permitted to bid or submit a proposal of goods, works, or non-
consulting services if they can establish that they: (A) are legally and
financially autonomous; (B) operate under commercial law; and (C) are
not a dependent agency of the agency conducting the procurement.
(xvii) 
Matters such as subcontracting, joint venture relationships and
assignment of contract shall be handled in accordance with the bidding
documents.
(xviii) The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be published in
the national or provincial press (as provided under paragraph (ii) above)
or official gazette or a free and open-access website and shall identify:
(A) the name of each bidder who submitted a bid; (B) bid prices as read
out at bid opening; (C) the name of the bidder, and the evaluated price,
of each bid that was evaluated; (D) the names of bidders whose bids
were either rejected as non-responsive or not meeting qualification
criteria, or not evaluated, with the reasons therefor, and (E) the name of
the winning bidder and the final total contract price, as well as the
duration and summary scope of the contract. Such publication shall be
within two (2) weeks of receiving the Bank's no-objection to the award
recommendation for contracts subject to the Bank's prior review, and
within two (2) weeks of the Borrower or the Project Implementing
Entity's award decision for contracts subject to the Bank's post review.
The bidding documents shall disclose the newspaper in which and / or
the electronic means by which the information on contract award will
be published.
(xix) 
The Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity / Entities, as the case
may be, shall have in place an effective and independent protest
-14-
mechanism for bidders to protest. The bidding documents shall provide
the professional title and address of the official to whom such protests
should be sent.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based
Selection, which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used:
Procurement Methods
(a) 
Quality-Based Selection
(b) 
Selection Based on the Consultants' Qualifications
(c) 
Selection of Individual Consultants
(d) 
Single Source Selection (Firm and Individual)
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
-15-
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) 
Financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Civil works, goods, non- 
138,790,000 
100%
consulting 
services,
consultant 
services,
Training and 
Workshops,
and Incremental Operating
Costs under Parts A and D
of the Project
Amount payable pursuant
(2) Commitment Charge 
860,000 
to Sections 2.04 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (c) of the
General Conditions
Amount payable pursuant
(3) Front-end Fee 
350,000 
to Section 
2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(4) Interest Rate Cap or 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest 
Rate 
Collar 
0 
Section 
2.08(c) 
of this
premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
140,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
I. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $28,000,000 may be made
for payments made prior to this date but on or after June 1, 2015, for Eligible
Expenditures.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2021.
-16-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(xpressed as a Percentage)
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning May 15, 2021 
2.00%
through November 15, 2045
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
-17-
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
-18-
APPENDIX
Section 1. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Annual Work Plan" means each of the rolling plans for the Project to be
prepared or updated by the Project Implementing Entity, and approved by the
Bank, on an annual basis as provided for in Section I.A.4 of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
4. 
"Co-financier" means the China Development Bank, a state-owned financial
institution under the direct jurisdiction of the Borrower's State Council, primarily
responsible for raising funding for large infrastructure projects and providing
medium- to long-term financing facilities that assist in the development of the
national economy.
5. 
"Co-financing" means, for purposes of paragraph 16 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, an amount of RMB 1,385,000,000 to be provided by the Co-
financier to assist in financing the Project.
6. 
"Co-financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the
Co-financier and UUTIC providing for the Co-financing.
7. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
8. 
"Environmental Management Plan" or "EMP" means the Project Implementing
Entity's plan for the Project, acceptable to the Bank, dated June 2015, which sets
out the environmental and social protection measures, including measures for the
protection of natural habitats and physical cultural resources, in respect of the
Project, as well as administrative, monitoring, supervision and training
arrangements to ensure the implementation of said plans, as said plan may be
revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such
term includes all schedules and annexes supplemental thereto.
9. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section H of this Appendix.
-19-
10. 
"Implementation Agreement" means the tripartite agreement to be entered into
between the Project Implementing Entity, through Urumqi Municipality
(UMECD), UCTRC and UUTIC, with the purpose of assigning different roles
and responsibilities among these entities with respect to Project implementation,
under terms acceptable to the Bank, and referred to in Section I.A.6 of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.
11. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the reasonable costs incurred by the
Project Implementing Entity at the provincial and municipal levels, for purposes
of Project management and implementation based on the Annual Work Plans
approved in advance by the Bank, on account of office supplies and
consumables, utilities, bank charges, communications, mass media and printing
services, interpretation and translation services, vehicle rental, operation and
maintenance, 
and insurance, building and equipment maintenance, 
local
transportation, domestic travel, lodging, and subsistence allowances, salaries of
contractual and temporary staff, but excluding salaries and any salary
supplements of members of the Borrower's or the Project Implementing Entity's
civil service.
12. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
13. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated May 6, 2015 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
14. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, or
any successor thereto.
15. 
"Project Leading Group" or "PLG" means the .leading group established by
Urumqi Municipality, on December 13, 2013, to provide overall leadership,
policy guidance and institutional coordination in Project preparation and
implementation, and any successor thereto, and referred to in Section I.A. 1(a) of
the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
16. 
"Project Management Office" or "PMO" means the municipal-level Project
management office established within UCTRC on December 13, 2013, and
referred to in Section I.A.1(b) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and any
successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
17. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" or "RAP" means the plan prepared by the Project
Implementing Entity for the Project, dated May 2015, setting forth, inter alia: (a)
the principles and procedures governing the acquisition of land required for the
Project and related facilities; (b) actions and measures for the payment of
compensation to Displaced Persons and for their resettlement and rehabilitation;
-20-
(c) the criteria and procedures for developing and implementing actions and
measures, satisfactory to the Bank, for mitigating the adverse social impacts
resulting from the implementation of activities in locations that are not directly
identified in the RAP; and (d) reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure
compliance with said plans, as the same may be revised from time to time with
the prior written agreement of the Bank; and such term includes all attachments
and annexes supplemental to said plans.
18. 
"RMB" means Ren Min Bi, the national currency of the Borrower.
19. 
"Results Framework" means the Borrower's framework, dated November 11,
2015, and agreed with the Bank, setting forth the indicators and targets for
purposes of monitoring and evaluation of the progress of the Project, as the same
may be modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank,
and such term includes any annexes, appendices, or schedules to such
framework.
20. 
"Safeguards Instruments" means, collectively, the Environmental Management
Plan and the Resettlement Action Plan for the Project, as well as any schedules
and annexes supplemental to said instruments.
21. 
"Subsidiary Agreement - UCTRC" means the agreement referred to in Section
I.A.2 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, to be entered into between
Urumqi Municipality and UCTRC, acceptable to the Bank, in accordaince with
the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.
22. 
"Subsidiary Agreement - UUTIC" means the agreement referred to in Section
I.A.2 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, to be entered into between
Urumqi Municipality and UUTIC, acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with the
terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.
23. 
"Subsidiary Agreements" means, collectively, the Subsidiary Agreement 
UCTRC and the Subsidiary Agreement - UUTIC.
24. 
"Training and Workshops" means the costs of training activities under the
Project, based on annual work plans and budgets approved by the Bank, and
attributable to seminars, workshops, and domestic and overseas training, along
with travel and subsistence allowances for training participants, services of
trainers, rental of training facilities, preparation and reproduction of training
materials, and other activities directly related to course preparation and
implementation.
25. 
"UCTRC" means Urumqi Urban Comprehensive Transport Project Research
Center, a public institution established in July 1997 with the approval of Urumqi
Municipality, with the objective of supporting the municipal government in the
-21-
carrying out of research tasks related to urban transport planning, construction
and management, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
26. 
"UMECD" means 
the Urumqi's 
Municipal 
Engineering 
Construction
Department, or any successor thereto.
27. 
"Urumqi Municipality" or "Urumqi" means the municipality of such name in the
Borrower's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, or any successor thereto.
28. 
"UUTIC" means Urumqi Urban Transport Investment Company, a state-owned
enterprise established and operating pursuant to its Business License No. (Qi)
650700050168996, dated July 14, 2011, issued by Urumqi Administration of
Industry and Commerce, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
Section H. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
I .
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs
below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which
amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled.
The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each
Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
-22-
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the
Front-end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if
any), any surcharge, any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a
Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing
Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of an Interest Rate
Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
