LOAN NUMBER 8516-AR
Loan Agreement
(Additional Financing for Provincial Public Health Insurance Development Project)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated as of the Signature Date, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing additional financing for activities related
to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Borrower and the Bank
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE H -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred million Dollars ($200,000,000), as such
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance
with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the
project described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e)
of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
.
.
-2-
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest
rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the
Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project through MSN with the assistance of the Participating
Provinces (as provided in the corresponding Umbrella Agreements), all in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower through MSN shall ensure
that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
that the PHIP Ministerial Resolution has been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the
Bank, the implementation, objectives and results of the Project.
(b) 
that any Participating Province shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under its Umbrella Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that any of the
events specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occur and is continuing for a period of
60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of, namely, that the Borrower, through
MSN, has amended the PHIP Ministerial Resolution to include selected general health
interventions for men of ages 20 to 64.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the
Signature Date.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Economy and Public Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas P6blicas
Hip6lito Yrigoyen 250
C 1086 AAB, Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
MINISTERIO
DE ECONOMIA 
121942-AR 
(5411) 4349-8815
-4-
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at Buenos Aires, Argentina, on behalf of the Bank on&1G(l 
3 
( 
, and on behalf
of the Borrower on 
Mrch 31, 2016
Acuerdo MIvrFP No 10/16
ARGENTINE REPUBL
By:
I,' 
Ut orized RepresentativZ
Name: 
ALFONSO PRAT- GAY
Minisiro de Hacienda y Finanzas Pfblicas
Title:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By: 
j
Au,orized Representative
Name:
Title:
-5-
SCHEDULE1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) increase utilization and quality of key health
services for the uninsured target population; and (b) improve institutional management by
strengthening the incentives for results in Participating Provinces and among Authorized Providers.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: Supporting Provincial Public Health Insurance
1 .
Making Capitation Payments for PHIP services for the provision of: (a) general health
interventions; and (b) selected health interventions for catastrophic diseases.
2. 
Making Pilot Capitation Payments for PHIP services for the provision of general health
interventions.
Part B: Institutional and Management Strengthening of the MSN and MSPs
1 .
Improving the management capacity of the MSN and the MSPs by:
(a) 
developing integrated information systems, instruments, and capacity to manage
the PHIP, including administrative and billing data systems and the promotion of
electronic medical records, the preparation and execution of annual performance
agreements between MSN and MSPs, and between MSPs and Authorized
Providers and new contracts and payment systems;
(b) 
carrying out of outreach and service delivery strategies for rural and indigenous
peoples (including the promotion of communities' participation, user rights, and
culturally appropriate services for the inclusion of indigenous populations) and
strengthening the health workforce skills of health staff in rural areas;
(c) 
carrying out of studies on health system financing and related mechanisms,
including mechanisms for integrating other public health programs with
insurance/capitation schemes into the PHIP, all aimed at facilitating policy-making
decisions of MSN and MSPs related with achieving effective universal health
coverage; and
(d) 
improving MSN's and MSP's communication strategies for disseminating
information about health plans, changing behavior among health sector staff, and
promoting social participation.
-6-
2. 
Supporting management, monitoring and evaluation capacities of the PCU, UFI-S and
PHIUs, through the provision of technical assistance (including the financing of Operating
Costs and Training), and the carrying out of monitoring and evaluation, and financial and
technical audits under the Project.
Part C: Building Capacity of the MSN and MSPs to Deliver Services
I. 
Strengthening the supply capacity of the MSN and the MSPs through, inter alia: (a) the
provision 
of equipment 
(medical, 
transportation, 
information 
technology 
and
communications); and (b) maintenance services needed to upgrade and expand MSN and
MSPs' information and communication systems (excluding civil works).
-7-
SCHEDULE2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
For the purposes of assisting the MSN in the overall management of the Project, the
Borrower, through MSN, shall:
(a) 
operate and maintain throughout the execution of the Project, within the MSN, a
Project coordination unit (PCU) and an international health financing unit (UFI-S)
to manage Project implementation with functions and responsibilities acceptable
to the Bank and staffed with a coordinator, technical experts and other personnel
in number and with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank; and
(b) 
cause the Participating Provinces, through the Umbrella Agreements, to operate
and maintain throughout the execution of the Project, within the respective MSPs,
provincial health insurance units (the PHIUs), with functions and responsibilities
acceptable to both the Borrower and the Bank and with staff in number and with
qualifications and experience acceptable to both the Borrower and the Bank.
2. 
For the purposes of implementing Part A.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall, through
MSN:
(a) 
prepare, as applicable, and thereafter maintain during the execution of the Project,
a list of eligible health services divided in three sections (the Nomenclador Unico
-AB, the Nomenclador Unico C, and selected health interventions for catastrophic
diseases), to be provided by Authorized Providers acceptable to the Bank;
(b) 
develop a matrix of health indicator goals (the Trazadoras Matrix) in number and
substance to be recorded in the Operations Manual, for the purposes of monitoring
the achievement of such indicator goals and transferring the Capitation Payments
on a periodic basis to the Participating Provinces, all under terms acceptable to the
Bank; and
(c) 
develop a matrix of health indicator goals (the Pilot Trazadoras Matrix) in number
and substance to be recorded in the Operations Manual, for the purposes of
monitoring the achievement of such indicator goals and transferring the Pilot
Capitation Payments on a periodic basis to the Pilot Participating Provinces, all
under terms acceptable to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through MSN, and the Bank shall jointly review at least once every year,
the Capitation Payments amount, the eligible health services included in the Nomenclador
Unico -AB, the Nomenclador Unico -C, the selected health interventions for catastrophic
diseases, and the Trazadoras Matrix, and adjust them (in number and substance) as
necessary, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
4. 
Without limitation of the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the Borrower,
through MSN, shall carry out the Project in accordance with an operations manual,
satisfactory to the Bank (the Operations Manual), containing, inter alia: (a) the terms of
reference, functions and responsibilities for the personnel of the PCU, UFI-S and PHIUs
responsible for the coordination, monitoring and evaluation of the Project; (b) the criteria,
detailed rules and procedures for the Capitation Payments and Pilot Capitation Payments;
(c) the procedures for procurement of goods, Non-consultant Services and consultant's
services, as well as for financial management and audits of the Project; (d) the indicators
to be used in the monitoring and evaluation of the Project; (e) the draft models for the
amended Umbrella Agreements and Annual Performance Agreements; (f) detailed criteria
for the conversion of Eligible Population into Enrolled Population (procedures, activities
and monitoring indicators for the enrollment of said population); (g) detailed criteria for
the determination, measurement and control of Effective Coverage; (h) the eligibility
criteria for the incorporation of Provinces into the PHIP; (i) the procedures for the revision
and adjustment of the Nomenclador Unico-AB, the Nomenclador Unico-C, the selected
health interventions for catastrophic diseases, the Trazadoras Matrix and the Pilot
Trazadoras Matrix; (j) the flow and disbursement arrangements of Project funds; (k) the
Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework, including criteria to ensure adequate and
culturally appropriate access by indigenous peoples to the PHIP; and (1) the Environmental
Management Framework.
5. 
(a) 
The Borrower, through MSN, shall maintain operative guidelines (the Provincial
Operative Guidelines), satisfactory to the Bank, which shall contain those chapters
of the Operations Manual of direct concern to the Participating Provinces and their
role in the implementation of the Project. Said operative guidelines shall be an
annex to the amended Umbrella Agreement.
(b) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower through MSN shall not
amend, waive or fail to enforce the Operations Manual or the Provincial Operative
Guidelines, or any provision thereof. 
In case of any conflict between the
provisions of this Agreement and those of the Operations. Manual or the Provincial
Operative Guidelines, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
6. 
Before the carrying out of Project activities for a respective Participating Province and for
the purposes of enabling said Participating Provinces to continue providing the required
assistance under the Project, the Borrower, through MSN, shall:
(a) 
amend a respective Umbrella Agreements with the respective Participating
Province, under terms and conditions approved by the Bank, including, inter alia:
(i) the obligation of the respective Participating Province to: (i) update and carry
out the applicable Indigenous Peoples Plan in accordance with its terms (when
applicable in accordance with the provisions of the Indigenous Peoples Planning
Framework); (ii) include the Nomenclador Unico - C to the list of general health
pe
-9-
interventions to be financed and supported by Capitation Payments; and (iii)
comply with the provisions of the Environmental Management Framework (EMF).
(b) 
every year, on January 1, enter into an Annual Performance Agreement with the
respective Participating Province, setting forth annual targets for the Trazadoras
Matrix and enrollment goals and, if applicable, the annual targets for the Pilot
Trazadoras Matrix, the prices to be paid for each health service to Authorized
Providers under the Nomenclador Unico-AB and the Nomenclador Unico-C and,
if applicable, the payment mechanisms to Authorized Service Providers for the
achievement of the targets for the Pilot Trazadoras Matrix, work programs and
resource requirements for the implementation of the Project, all on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank;
(c) 
cause the respective Participating Province (through the respective amended
Umbrella Agreement) to amend the Authorized Provider Agreement with each
Authorized Provider, setting forth, inter alia, the Participating Provinces' payment
mechanisms with respect to: (i) the health services included in the Nomenclador
Unico-C; and (ii) if applicable, for the achievement of the targets for the Pilot
Trazadoras Matrix;
(d) 
cause the respective Participating Province, when applicable in accordance with
the provisions of the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework, to prepare (if
determined by the IPPF and the Bank), and carry out the applicable Indigenous
Peoples Plan in accordance with its terms;
(e) 
cause the respective Participating Province to take all necessary actions to enable
the Borrower to comply with its pertinent obligations as set forth under this
Agreement, including those set forth or referred to in the General Conditions and
the Anti-Corruption Guidelines, in respect of the carrying out of the Project as it
may apply to the assistance provided by the respective Participating Province; and
(f) 
(i) exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each amended Umbrella
Agreement and each Annual Performance Agreement in such a manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes
of the Loan; (ii) cause each Participating Province to exercise its rights and carry
out its obligations under each amended Authorized Provider Agreement in such a
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish
the purposes of the Loan; and (iii) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not
assign, amend, abrogate, repeal, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any amended
Umbrella Agreement and/or Annual Performance Agreement or any provision
thereof.
7. 
(a) 
Capitation Payment. The Borrower, through MSN, shall make Capitation
Payments available to a Participating Province, only after said Participating
Province has fulfilled the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operations Manual and
the requirements set forth in this Agreement in order to become a Participating
* 
, 
-10-
Province. Such Capitation Payments shall be made in two installments: (i) 60%
every month, immediately after the Participating Province has sent to the MSN the
monthly registry with the Enrolled Population as of the previous month and the
MSN has certified and validated said registry, and certified as having received
Effective Coverage; and (ii) the remaining 40% shall be disbursed initially every
four months, after verification of the Participating Province's performance with
respect to the Trazadoras Matrix, as provided in the Operations Manual, the
Provincial Operative Guidelines and the Annual Performance Agreements. The
initial 4-month period may be modified if necessary, in a manner satisfactory to
both the MSN and the Bank.
(b) 
The procedure referred to in (a) above shall only apply to Capitation Payments with
respect to Nomenclador Unico-C after December 31, 2015. Before such date, the
Borrower, through MSN, shall disburse 100% of the Capitation Payment amount
for Nomenclador Unico-C every month immediately after the Participating
Province has sent to MSN the registry with the Enrolled Population as of the
previous month and the MSN has certified and validated said registry, and certified
as having received Effective Coverage.
8. 
Pilot Capitation Payment. The Borrower, through MSN, shall make Pilot
Capitation Payments available to a Pilot Participating Province, only after said
Pilot Participating Province has fulfilled the eligibility criteria set forth in the
Operations Manual and the requirements set forth in this Agreement in order to
become a Pilot Participating Province. The Borrower, through MSN, shall disburse
100% of the Pilot Capitation Payment amount every four months (or at other period
agreed with the Bank) immediately after verification of the Pilot Participating
Province's performance with respect to the Pilot Trazadoras Matrix, as provided
in the Operations Manual, the Provincial Operative Guidelines and the Annual
Performance Agreements.
9. 
(a) 
For the purposes of the certification and validation procedure referred to in 7 and
8 above, the Borrower, through MSN, shall: (i) appoint under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank and thereafter maintain during the execution of the Project,
an independent technical auditing firm with qualifications and terms of contracting
satisfactory to the Bank (the Technical Auditor) responsible for performing
bimonthly (or any other interval acceptable to the Bank) audits on the Trazadoras
Matrix and Pilot Trazadoras Matrix, the registry of Enrolled Population and the
provision of Effective Coverage; and (ii) use as support documentation the Padr6n
de Obra Social Provincial, the Padr6n de Obras Sociales Nacionales, and the
reports provided by the Technical Auditor, all in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) 
In case a Participating Province or Pilot Participating Province fails to achieve a
determined number of health indicator goals included in the Trazadoras Matrix or
Pilot Trazadoras Matrix (as said number is agreed and set forth in the Operations
Manual), for three consecutive four-month periods, the Borrower, through MSN,
-11-.
may suspend the right of said Participating Province or Pilot Participating Province
to receive funds under Part A.1 or A.2 of the Project, as the case may be.
10. 
The Borrower shall through MSN:
(a) 
no later than March 31 of every year of Project implementation, furnish to the Bank
for its approval, an annual implementation plan (the Annual Implementation Plan),
each said plan to include, inter alia: (i) the Project activities to be carried out by
the Borrower, through MSN, during the calendar year following the presentation
of each said plan; and (ii) the updated Procurement Plan for each said calendar
year; and
(b) 
thereafter implement each said Annual Implementation Plan, as approved by the
Bank, in accordance with its terms.
11. 
For purposes of including selected general health interventions for men of ages 20 to 64
under Part A.1 of the Project, the Borrower, through MSN, shall amend the PHIP
Ministerial Resolution, all under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower, through MSN, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with
the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Safeguards
1 .
The Borrower, through MSN, shall and, if applicable, shall cause the Participating
Provinces to implement the Project in accordance with the EMF.
2. 
The Borrower, through MSN, shall and, if applicable, shall cause the Participating
Provinces to: (a) implement the Project in accordance with the Indigenous People Planning
Framework, when applicable; and (b) update and thereafter implement the pertinent
Indigenous Peoples Plan in accordance with its terms, and in a manner acceptable to the
Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through MSN, shall ensure that the terms of reference for any consultancies
related to the technical assistance provided under the Project, shall be acceptable to the
Bank following its review thereof and, to that end, such terms of reference shall duly
incorporate the requirement of the Bank's Safeguard Policies then in force, as applied to
the advice conveyed through such technical assistance.
* 
-12-
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower, through MSN, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report shall
cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than
two months after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower, through MSN, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower, through MSN,
shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of each
calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter,
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall, through MSN, have its Financial Statements audited in accordance
with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six
months after the end of such period.
4. 
The Borrower shall, through MSN, not later than sixty days after the Effective Date, update
and thereafter maintain throughout Project implementation, specific national budget line
entries in its annual budget in order to record all expenditures, including Capitation
Payments and Pilot Capitation Payments (considered transfers under each such annual
budget) incurred during Project implementation.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, and non-consulting services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. 
All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section.
-13-
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to the
corresponding method described in Sections II and Ill of the Procurement Guidelines, or
Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, and Non-consulting Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
goods, and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of International Competitive Bidding procedures.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, and Non-consulting Services. The following
methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for procurement of
goods, and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in the Procurement
Plan: (a) National Competitive Bidding; (b) Shopping; and (c) Direct Contracting.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality and
Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following methods, other
than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of consultants'
services for those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based
Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; (d) Selection based
on Consultants' Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f)
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the
Selection of Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's Prior
Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
* 
.
-14-
E. 
Special Provisions
The following Special Provisions shall apply to procurement under the Project:
(a) 
Procurement of Goods, Non-Consultant Services and Consultants' Services (in
respect of firms) shall be carried out using: (i) (A) standard bidding documents
acceptable to the Bank; and (B) standard requests for quotations/proposals (as the
case may be), all acceptable to the Bank, which shall all include, inter alia, a
settlement of dispute provision and the pertinent provisions of the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines; (ii) model bid evaluation forms, and model quotations/proposals
evaluation forms (as the case may be); and (iii) model contract forms, all
acceptable to the Bank;
(b) 
A two-envelope bidding procedure shall not be allowed in the procurement of
Goods and Non-Consultant Services;
(c) 
After the public opening of bids for Goods and Non-Consultant Services,
information relating to the examination, clarification and evaluation of bids and
recommendations concerning awards, shall not be disclosed to bidders or other
persons not officially concerned with this process until the publication of contract
award. In addition, bidders and/or other persons not officially concerned with said
process shall not be allowed to review or make copies of other bidders' bids;
(d) 
After the public opening of Consultants' proposals, information related to the
examination, clarification and evaluation of proposals and recommendations
concerning awards, shall not be disclosed to consultants or other persons not
officially concerned with this process until the publication of contract award
(except as provided in paragraphs 2.23 and 2.30 of the Consultants Guidelines). In
addition, consultants and/or other persons not officially concerned with said
process shall not be allowed to review or make copies of other consultants'
proposals;
(e) 
Foreign bidders or foreign consultants shall not, as a condition for submitting bids
or proposals and/or for contract award: (i) be required to be registered in the
Borrower's territory (except as provided in the standard bidding documents
referred to in (a) above); (ii) be required to have a representative in the Borrower's
territory; and (iii) be required to be associated or subcontract with Borrower's
suppliers or consultants;
(f) 
The invitations to bid, bidding documents, minutes of bid openings, requests for
expressions of interest and the pertinent summary of the evaluation reports of bids
and proposals of all Goods, Non-Consultant Services and Consultants' Services
procured by the Borrower, through MSN, shall be published in the web page of the
Borrower's Office of National Procurement (Oficina Nacional de Contrataciones),
in a manner acceptable to the Bank. The bidding period shall be counted from the
-15-
date of publication of the invitation to bid or the date of the availability of the
bidding documents, whichever is later, to the date of bid opening;
(g) 
Provisions set forth in paragraphs 2.49, 2.50, 2.52, 2.54 and 2.59 of the
Procurement Guidelines shall also be applicable to contracts for Goods and Non-
Consultant Services to be procured under National Competitive Bidding
procedures;
(h) 
References to bidders in one or more specialized magazines shall not be used by
the Borrower, through MSN, in determining if the bidder in respect of goods whose
bid has been determined to be the lowest evaluated bid has the capability and
resources to effectively carry out the contract as offered in the bid, as referred to
in the provision set forth in paragraph 2.58 of the Procurement Guidelines. The
provision set forth in paragraph 2.58 of the Procurement Guidelines (including the
limitation set forth herein) shall also be applicable to contracts for goods to be
procured under National Competitive Bidding procedures;
(i) 
Witness prices shall not be used as a parameter for bid evaluation, bid rejection or
contract award;
The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids shall apply to goods
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower in respect of contracts for goods to
be procured under International Competitive Bidding procedures;
(k) 
Compliance by bidders with the norms issued by ISO with respect to any given
good procured under the Project shall not be used as parameter for contract award;
(1) 
Consultants shall not be required to submit bid or performance securities;
(m) 
Contracts of Goods and Non-Consultant Services shall not be awarded to the "most
convenient" bid, but rather to the bidder whose bid has been determined: (i) to be
substantially responsive; and (ii) to offer the lowest evaluated bid, provided that
said bidder has demonstrated to the Borrower, through MSN, to be qualified to
perform the contract satisfactorily; and
(n) 
The types of contracts described in Section IV of the Consultant Guidelines shall
be the only types of contracts to be used by the Borrower, through MSN, in
connection with the contracting of consultants' services provided by a firm and to
be financed with the proceeds of the Loan.
* 
-16-
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank Disbursement
Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as
made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures
in each Category.
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures to
Allocated 
be financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods 
37,000,000 
85%
(2) Consultants' services 
24,000,000 
100%
(including technical audits),
Non-consultant Services and
Training
(3) 
Capitation Payments under 
127,000,000 
Under Nomenclador Unico-C:
Part A.1(a) of the Project
100% until December 31, 2015;
70% until December 31, 2016;
and 65% thereafter
Under Nomenclador Unico-
AB, 70% until December 31,
2016; and 65% thereafter
(4) Capitation Payments under 
8,000,000 
60% as per Section B. 1 (d)
Part A.1(b) of the Project 
below
(5) Operating Costs 
1,500,000 
85%
(6) 
Pilot Capitation Payments 
2,000,000 
100%
under Part A.2 of the Project
(7) Front-end Fee 
500,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this Agreement
in accordance with Section 2.07
(b) of the General Conditions
(8) 
Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar premium 
Section 2.08(c) of this
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
200,000,000
3. 
For purposes of the preceding table the terms:
(a) 
-Operating 
Costs" means the reasonable 
cost of incremental 
recurrent
expenditures of MSN related to Project implementation such as, inter alia,
consumable items, utilities and supplies, which would not have been incurred
absent the Project; and
(b) 
"Training" means expenditures (other than those for consultants' 
services)
incurred by MSN to finance reasonable transportation costs and per-diem of
trainees and trainers (if applicable) and rental of training facilities, materials and
equipment under the Project.
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $24,000,000 may be made for payments
made prior to this date but on or after April 1, 2015 (but in no case more than
twelve months before the Signature Date), for Eligible Expenditures under
Category (3) with respect to Nomenclador Unico-C; or
(b) 
for expenditures under Categories (3), (4) and (6) until the Technical Auditor has
been contracted under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; or
(c) 
for expenditures under Category (3) in respect of Capitation Payments for health
services provided under Nomenclador Unico-AB before the loan proceeds
allocated to Category (3) of Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to the Original Loan
have been fully disbursed; or
(d) 
for expenditures under Category (4) before the loan proceeds allocated to Category
4 of Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to the Original Loan have been fully disbursed.
2. 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2017.
-18-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: 
(a)
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment
Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary,
to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each April 15 and October 15
Beginning on October 15, 2022
through April 15, 2047 
1.96%
On October 15, 2047 
2.00%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as
of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding
on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall
-19-
be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating
to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-20-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
(1) 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated
October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
(2) 
"Annual Implementation Plan" means each implementation plan referred to in Section
I.A.10 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(3) 
"Annual Performance Agreement" means each agreement referred to in Section 1.A.6 (b)
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(4) 
"Arg$" means Argentine Peso, the lawful currency of the Borrower.
(5) 
"Authorized Provider" means any public or private health facility which meets the criteria
set forth in the Operations Manual.
(6) 
"Authorized Provider Agreement" means each agreement entered into between each
Participating Province, through its MSP, and an Authorized Provider, referred to in Section
I.A.6(c) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(7) 
"Capitation Payment" means a financial transfer from the Borrower, through MSN, to the
Participating Provinces: (a) under Part A.1(a) of the Project in an initial amount of Arg$22
per person enrolled in the PHIP of each relevant month; and (b) under Part A. 1(b) of the
Project in an initial amount of Arg$6 per person enrolled in the PHIP of each relevant
month (as this amount may be revised from time to time with the prior agreement of the
Bank), to cover a share of the total cost of health services rendered to Enrolled Population
and included in the Nomenclador Unico-AB and/or in the Nomenclador Unico-C, and
selected health interventions for catastrophic diseases.
(8) 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
(9) 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January
2011 (revised July 2014).
(10) 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
(11) 
"Effective Coverage" means the provision of a health service intervention to an individual
within the Enrolled Population, according to each defined age group and in a given period
of time, which services are included in the Nomenclador Unico-AB and/or the
-21- 
.
Nomenclador Unico-C, or within the selected health interventions for catastrophic
diseases, and billed to the PHIP, as this coverage mechanism is further detailed in the
Operations Manual.
(12) 
"Eligible Population" means all uninsured children under 10 years of age, uninsured youths
from 10 to 19 years old, uninsured women from 20 to 64 years of age, and uninsured men
from 20 to 64 years of age living within the territory of a Participating Province.
(13) 
"Enrolled Population" means the Eligible Population that has enrolled in the PHIP in a
Participating Province.
(14) 
"Environmental Management Framework" means the Borrower's framework, acceptable
to the Bank (included in the Operations Manual), published in the Borrower's territory on
April 24, 2015 and in the Bank's Infoshop on May 7, 2015, which includes, inter alia,
health care waste management.
(15) 
"Indigenous Peoples Plan" or "IPP" means any of the plans acceptable to the Bank,
prepared, adopted and updated by the Borrower, and/or the pertinent Participating Province
when applicable as set forth in the Operations Manual, all prepared and updated to be
carried out following the requirements of the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework.
(16) 
"Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework" or "IPPF" means the Borrower's framework,
acceptable to the Bank (included in the Operations Manual), published in the Borrower's
territory on April 24, 2015, and in the Bank's Infoshop on May 7, 2015, setting forth the
indigenous peoples policy framework applicable to all the activities to be carried out under
the Project and the basis and procedures to prepare and adopt indigenous peoples' plans or
related instruments during Project implementation.
(17) 
"ISO" means International Organization for Standardization, an international-standard-
setting body composed of representatives from various national standards organizations
which issues world-wide proprietary industrial and commercial standards for products.
(18) 
"MSN" means Ministerio de Salud de la Naci6n, the Borrower's Ministry of Health.
(19) 
"MSP" means Ministerio de Salud Provincial (or its equivalent in each Province), each of
the Borrower's Participating Provinces' Ministries of Health.
(20) 
-Nomenclador Unico-AB" means the list of eligible health services referred to in Section
I.A.2(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and in the Operations Manual, consisting of
selected general health interventions for maternal health care; for children under 6 years of
age; children of age 6 to 9; youths from age 10 to 19, and for women of ages 20 to 64.
(21) 
"Nomenclador Unico-C" means the list of eligible health services referred to in Section
I.A.2(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and in the Operations Manual, consisting of
selected general health interventions for men of ages 20 to 64.
-22-
(22) 
"Non-consultant Services" means services which will be bid and contracted on the basis of
performance of measurable physical outputs, and which are not otherwise covered by any
other category of Eligible Expenditures.
(23) 
"Operations Manual" means the Borrower's manual dated May 24, 2015, referred to in
Section 1.4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(24) 
"Original Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement for a Provincial Public Health
Insurance Development Project between the Borrower and the Bank, dated August 6, 2012
as amended to the date of this Agreement (Loan No 8062-AR).
(25) 
"Original Project" means the Project described in Schedule 1 to the Original Loan
Agreement.
(26) 
"Padrdn de Obra Social Provincial" means each of the Participating Provinces' enrollment
databases containing information regarding individuals participating in the Province's
social health insurance scheme.
(27) 
"Padr6n de Obras Sociales Nacionales" means the national enrollment database
consolidating information regarding individuals participating in National Social Health
Insurance Entities programs.
(28) 
"Participating Province" means any Province or the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires
(CiudadAut6noma de Buenos Aires) that has fulfilled the requirements of this Agreement
and the Operations Manual to be eligible to participate and receive funds from the Project.
(29) 
"PCU" means the Project coordination unit referred to in Section I.A. 1(a) of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
(30) 
"PHIP" means Programa de Desarrollo de Seguros Puiblicos Provinciales de Salud, the
Borrower's Provincial Development Public Health Insurance Program, as set forth in the
PHIP Ministerial Resolution, with the objective of strengthening the coverage and quality
of health services to be provided throughout the Borrower's territory.
(31) 
"PHIP Ministerial Resolution" means MSN's resolution No. 3187-2012, dated September
7, 2012, referred to in Section I.A.9 of Schedule 2 to the Original Loan Agreement, as
amended in accordance with Section I.A. 11 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(32) 
"PHIU" means any of the Provincial units referred to in Section 1.1(b) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
(33) 
"Pilot Capitation Payments" means a financial transfer from the Borrower, through MSN,
to the Pilot Participating Provinces under Part A.2 of the Project in an initial amount of
Arg$28 per person enrolled in the PHIP of each relevant month (as this amount may be
revised from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank), to cover a share of the
-23-
total cost of health services rendered to Enrolled Population that received Effective
Coverage.
(34) 
"Pilot Participating Province" means any Participating Province that has fulfilled the
requirements of this Agreement and the Operations Manual to receive Pilot Capitation
Payments.
(35) 
"Pilot Trazadoras Matrix" means the matrix agreed between the Borrower and the Bank,
as set forth in the Operations Manual, and which contains the health indicator goals referred
to in Section 1.A.2(c) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(36) 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
(37) 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated May
25, 2015 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph
1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
(38) 
"Province" means a political subdivision of the Borrower as per Title Two of the
Borrower's Constitution or the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires (Ciudad Aut6noma de
Buenos Aires), and the term "Provinces" means all of said political subdivisions.
(39) 
"Provincial Operative Guidelines" means the operative guidelines referred to in Section
1.A.5(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(40) 
"Signature Date" means the latest of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed the Loan Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the date of the
Loan Agreement" in the General Conditions.
(41) 
"Technical Auditor" means the independent auditing firm mentioned in Section I.9(b)(i) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(42) 
"Trazadoras Matrix" means the matrix agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, as set
forth in the Operations Manual, and which contains the health indicator goals referred to
in Section I.A.2(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(43) 
"UFI-S" means MSN's unit referred to in Section I.A.1(a) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
(44) 
"Umbrella Agreement" means each agreement entered into between the Borrower, through
MSN, and each Participating Province, referred to in Section I.A.6.(a) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
-24-
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2.. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually
in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition
of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.0 1(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01
(a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition
of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower."
-25-
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and
Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
