OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8673-JO
CFF TF NUMBER TF0A4035
Loan Agreement
(Second Programmatic Energy and Water Sector Reforms Development Policy
Loan)
between
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
b 
,2016
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8673-JO
CFF TF NUMBER TF0A4035
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated A 
L 
, 2016, entered into between THE
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of
providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this
Agreement).
WHEREAS, (A) following an international effort to provide development support
to countries most affected by refugees in the Middle East region; and having satisfied itself
as to the feasibility and priority of the Program aimed at improving financial viability and
increasing efficiency gain in the energy and water sectors, the Borrower has requested the
Bank to extend a loan to assist in the financing of the Program;
(B) 
funding from the Concessional Financing Facility was received by the
Bank for purposes of providing concessionality to this Agreement;
(C) 
under the terms of a Financial Procedures Arrangement with the Trustee
of the Concessional Financing Facility dated August 10, 2016, the Bank has agreed to
provide additional funds to the Borrower (the Concessional Portion of the Loan as
hereinafter defined) as part of an integrated lending operation under the terms of this
Agreement; and
(D) 
furthermore, the Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis,
inter alia, of: (i) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and
which are described in Section LA of Schedule I to this Agreement, and (ii) the Borrower's
maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework.
NOW THEREFORE, the Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
-2-
ARTICLE 1I -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to extend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth
or referred to in this Agreement, a Loan in the amount of two hundred fifty million
United States Dollars ($250,000,000) to assist in financing the program described
in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Program"), consisting of the following:
(a) 
a non-concessional portion of the Loan in an amount of two hundred and
twenty-five million United States Dollars ($225,000,000), as such amount
may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Non-
Concessional Portion of the Loan"); and
(b) 
a concessional portion of the loan in an amount of twenty-five million
United States Dollars ($25,000,000) ("Concessional Portion of the Loan").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall
be deposited by the Bank into an account specified by the Borrower and acceptable
to the Bank.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan.
2.04. 
(a) 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one
quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Balance of
the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan.
(b) 
The Commitment Charge shall not be applied to the Concessional Portion
of the Loan.
2.05 
(a) 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a
rate equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable
Spread; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan, the interest
payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article
IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the
Loan remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a
period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall
instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.
-3-
(b) 
The Concessional Portion of the Loan shall be made on a grant basis.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan shall be repaid
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan in order to
facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Non-Concessional Portion
of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a
change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Non-Concessional Portion
of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Reference Rate and the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a
Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of
the principal amount of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Non-Concessional Portion of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate
Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To
this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either
party, exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic 
policy
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the
actions specified in Section I of Schedule I to this Agreement;
-4-
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request; and
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program
or any action taken under the Program including any action specified in
Section I of Schedule I to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
significant part of it, will be carried out.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the
Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that
the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out
the Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister responsible for planning and
international cooperation.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
Post office Box 555
Amman, 11118
The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Facsimile:
+962-6-464 9341
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
AGREED at Amman, The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, as of the day and year
first above written.
THE HASHEMITE 
DOM 
JORDAN
By
Authorized Representative
Name: Z02
Title:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: Fer 
SeVie
Title: Cr"."tnj 
iy" 
Yr
-7-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
A. 
Actions Taken Under the Program. The actions taken by the Borrower under
the Program include the following:
1 .
Improving the Financial Viability of the Electricity and Water Sectors
(a) 
The Borrower's Energy and Minerals Regulatory Commission has
adopted an electricity tariff adjustment mechanism, to sustain cost
recovery taking into consideration consumer affordability.
(b) 
The Borrower's Council of Ministers has approved a multi-year debt
management plan for NEPCO.
(c) 
The Borrower's Council of Ministers has approved the measures to
increase water sector revenues to enhance O&M cost recovery in
accordance with the "Structural Benchmark - Action Plan to Reduce Water
Sector Losses" dated August 2013.
2. 
Increasing Efficiency Gains in the Energy and Water Sectors
(a) 
NEPCO has adopted a strategy for diversification of fuel sources for power
generation with increased reliance on cleaner energy sources.
(b) 
The MEMR has issued 'Instructions and Requirements for Proposal
Preparation and Submission' to implement the direct proposal bylaws No.
50 of 2015, and has established a public data room for renewable energy
development to improve transparency.
(c) 
NEPCO has adopted standardized operating protocols for intermittent
renewable energy to be integrated into agreements with new renewable
power producers.
(d) 
JREEEF has operationalized two of its financing programs to ensure better
access to renewable energy and energy efficiency.
(e) 
The Borrower's Energy and Minerals Regulatory Commission and
selected distribution companies have agreed on a multi-year network loss
reduction plan which includes specific yearly loss reduction targets for
2016 and 2017.
(f) 
The Borrower's Ministry of Water and Irrigation has piloted the use of
performance-based operations for the implementation of energy efficiency
and renewable energy measures.
(g) 
The Borrower's Ministry of Water and Irrigation has adopted a water
substitution and reuse policy.
(h) 
The Borrower's Ministry of Water and Irrigation has adopted a wastewater
treatment plant national plan for operation and maintenance, which
includes the use of performance-based operation of wastewater treatment
plants.
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
may specify by notice to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the
Front-end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the
Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
Allocations 
Amount of the Non- 
Amount of the
Concessional 
Concessional Portion
Portion Tranche 
Tranche
Allocated 
Allocated
(expressed in USS) 
(expressed in USS)
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 
224,437,500 
25,000,000
(2) Front-end Fee 
562,500 
0
TOTAL AMOUNT 
225,000,000 
25,000,000
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank
is satisfied: (1) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower, and (2) with
the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
-9-
D. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and
2. 
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower's budget
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
E. 
Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any
time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded
Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an
amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to
the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
F. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is December 31, 2017.
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Non-
Concessional Portion of the Loan and the percentage of the total principal amount
of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Non-Concessional Portion of
the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the
principal amount of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) the Withdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the
Loan as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each
Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to
deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a
Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning November 15, 2021, 
1.64%
through May 15, 2051
On November 15, 2051 
1.60%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan have not been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Non-
Concessional Portion of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Non-Concessional Portion of the
Loan have been withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the
Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional
Portion of the Loan as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this
Schedule 2.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
-'l-
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan withdrawn within
two calendar months prior to any Principal Payment Date shall, for the
purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable on any
Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall
be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Balance of the Non-
Concessional Portion of the Loan to an Approved Currency, the amount so
converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal Payment
Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either (a) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal
in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge
Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so determines in
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the
Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan is
denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall
apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-12-
APPENDIX
Section L Definitions
1. 
"Concessional Financing Facility" and "CFF" each means the financing facility
established with a focus on providing concessional financing to middle income
countries most affected by the presence of large numbers of refugees, with an
initial focus on the Syrian refugee crisis as it impacts Jordan and Lebanon, and
referred to in the Preamble to this Agreement.
2. 
"Concessional Portion of the Loan" means the amount of the Loan referred to in
Article 2.01 (b) of this Agreement; which has been contributed for the Program
from the CFF on grant basis.
3. 
"Energy and Minerals Regulatory 
Commission" means 
the Borrower's
commission established pursuant to the Borrower's Bylaw No. 17 of 2014, and
responsible for energy and minerals regulations, as the same may be amended from
time to time.
4. 
"Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
or grant;
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986)
(the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions
to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower-
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item
112 
Alcoholic beverages
121 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco
refuse
122 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525 
Radioactive and associated materials
667 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
-13-
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group
metals (except watches and watch cases)
and goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares
(including set gems)
971 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores
and concentrates)
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
agreements to which the Borrower is a party;
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United
Nations; and
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.
5. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
6. 
"Jordan Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Fund" and "JREEEF" each
means the Borrower's fund responsible for promoting renewable energy and
energy efficiency investments, established pursuant to the Borrower's Bylaw No.
13 of 2010.
7. 
"Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources" and "MEMR" each means the
Borrower's ministry of water and irrigation responsible for energy or any successor
thereto.
8. 
"National Electric Power Company" and "NEPCO" each means the Borrower's
national power utility established as a company pursuant to the Borrower's Bylaw
No. 10 of 1996, as the same may be amended from time to time.
9. 
"O&M" means operation and maintenance.
-14-
10. 
"Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
referred to in the letter dated November 6, 2016, from the Borrower to the Bank
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its execution.
I1. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of Schedule I to this Agreement.
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
Wherever used throughout the General Conditions, the term "Loan Payment" is
modified to read "Payment of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan".
Furthermore, wherever used in Sections 3.02 to 3.08; Section 4.01; Sections 4.02
to 4.05 (including the Title); and Section 9.05, the term "the Loan" is modified to
read "the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan"; the term "Unwiihdrawn Loan
Balance" is modified to read "Unwithdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional
Portion ofthe Loan"; and the term "Withdrawn Loan Balance" is modified to read
"Withdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan".
2. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
3. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.
4. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
accordingly.
5. 
In Section 2.05 (originally numbered as Section 2.07), Refinancing Preparation
Advance; Capitalizing Front End Fee and Interest, the term "the Loan" in
paragraph (a) and the term "the Loan" after "other charges on" in paragraph (c), is
deleted and replaced with "the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan".
6. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Non-Concessional
Portion of the Loan at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end
Fee").
415-
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The Commitment
Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan Agreement to
the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the
Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-
annually in arrears on each Payment Date."
7. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally) and 5.09 (Financial Management:
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the subsequent
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.
8. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 7 above
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
9. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 7 above)
is modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until
two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's
representatives to examine such records."
10. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 7 above)
is modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their respective
obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purpose of
the Loan."
I1. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above.
12. 
Wherever used in the following definitions of the terms "Conversion"; "Currency
Conversion"; "Default Interest Period"; "Default Interest Rate"; "Default Variable
Rate"; "Fixed Rate"; "Fixed Reference Rate"; "Fixed Spread"; "Interest Rate
Cap"; "Interest Rate Conversion"; "Principal Payment Date"; "Reference Rate
-16-
Reset Date"; "Screen Rate"; "Variable Rate"; "Variable Spread"; "Variable Spread
Fixing Charge"; the term "the Loan" is modified to read "the Non-Concessional
Portion of the Loan"; the term "Unwithdrawn Loan Balance" is modified to read
"the Unwithdrawn Balance ofthe Non-Concessional Portion ofthe Loan"; and the
term "Withdrawn Loan Balance" is modified to read "Withdrawn Balance of the
Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan".
13. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the remaining paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
14. 
Renumbered paragraph 37 (originally paragraph 36) of the Appendix ("Eligible
Expenditure") is modified to read as follows:
"37. 
"Eligible Expenditure" means any use to which the Loan is put in support
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan
Agreement"
15. 
Renumbered paragraph 44 (originally paragraph 43) of the Appendix ("Financial
Statements") is deleted in its entirety.
16. 
In paragraph 48 of the Appendix, the definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by
replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
17. 
Renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, setting forth
the definition of "Loan Payment" is deleted in its entirety, and all subsequent
paragraphs are renumbered accordingly.
18. 
A new paragraph 71 is inserted with the following definition of "Non-Concessional
Portion of the Loan", and the remaining paragraphs are renumbered accordingly:
"71. 
"Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan" means portion of the Loan
provided to the Borrower on non-concessional terms in the Loan Agreement"
19. 
In paragraph 72 of the Appendix, the definition of "Payment Date" is modified by
deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and Commitment Charge are" after
the word "interest".
20. 
A new Paragraph 73 is inserted with the following definition of "Payment of the
Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan" and the remaining paragraphs are
renumbered accordingly.
"73. 
"Payment of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan" means any
-17-
amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements
or these General Conditions, including (but not limited to) any amount of the
Withdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan, interest, the
Front-end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if
any), any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early
termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any
premium payable upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
21. 
The defined term "Project" in the renumbered paragraph 76 (originally paragraph
75) of the Appendix is modified to read "Program" and its definition is modified
to read as follows (and all references to "Project" throughout these General
Conditions are deemed to be references to "Program"):
"76. 
"Program" means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in
support of which the Loan is made."
22. 
In the renumbered paragraph 93 (originally paragraph 92), the definition of
"Unwithdrawn Loan Balance" is modified to read as follows:
"93. 
"Unwithdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan"
means the amount of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan remaining
unwithdrawn from the Loan Account from time to time."
23. 
In the renumbered paragraph 97 (originally paragraph 96), the definition of
"Withdrawn Loan Balance" is modified to read as follows:
"97. 
"Withdrawn Loan Balance" means the amounts of the: (i) Non-
Concessional Portion of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account and
outstanding from time to time; plus (ii) Concessional Portion of the Loan
withdrawn from the Loan Account from time to time."
24. 
A new paragraph 98 is inserted with the following definition of "Withdrawn
Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan", and the remaining
paragraphs are renumbered accordingly-
"98. 
"Withdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan" means
the amounts of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan withdrawn from the
Loan Account and outstanding from time to time."
