OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8618-ID
Loan Agreement
(First Indonesia Fiscal Reform Development Policy Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
June 21 
,2016
-- -----------
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
2 of 16 
LN 8618-ID
LOAN NUMBER 8618-ID
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
June 21 
, 2016, entered into between Republic of Indonesia ("Borrower")
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for
the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this
Agreement). 
The Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the
actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in Section
I.A of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower's maintenance of an adequate
macroeconomic policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an integral
part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have the
meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, the amount of four hundred million United States Dollars ($400,000,000),
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than sixty
days after the Effective Date.
2.04 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by
the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e)
of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are June 1 and December 1 in each year.
3 of 16 
LN 8618-ID
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the terms
of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of the Loan
Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis
applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a
Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate
based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or
the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of
the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
2.09. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit (as said
terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of this Section), the Borrower
shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of one half of one percent (0.5%) per
annum of the Allocated Excess Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i)
of this Section) for each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge
(if any) shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during which the
Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit, the product of: (A) the
total amount of said excess; and (B) the ratio of all (or, if the Bank so
determines, a portion) of the Loan to the aggregate amount of all (or the
equivalent portions) of the loans made by the Bank to the Borrower and to
other borrowers guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an
exposure surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined from
time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the Bank's financial
exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded, would subject the Loan to the
Exposure Surcharge, as determined from time to time by the Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total financial
exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
4 of 16 
LN 8618-ID
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this end,
and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework and the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for its
review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program,
in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, the
Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have the effect
of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action taken under the
Program.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: a situation has arisen which
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be carried out.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: a situation has arisen which
shall make it improbable that the Program or a significant part of it, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V -EFFECTIVENESS; 
TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following: the Bank is satisfied
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program and with the
adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Directorate General of Budget Financing and Risk Management
Ministry of Finance
Gedung Frans Seda
Jl. DR. Wahidin Raya No. 1
Jakarta 10710 - Indonesia
Facsimile: 62-21-381-2859
5 of 16 
LN 8618-ID
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
AGREED at Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: Robert Pakpahan
Director General of Budget
Title: 
Financing and Risk Management
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
W 144C4
Title:
6 of 16 
LN 8618-ID
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
Pillar A: 
Improving Quality of Spending
1. 
The Borrower has increased the share of the central government budget allocated to
infrastructure, social assistance and health sectors, compared to pre-fuel subsidy reform years
(2012-2014), as evidenced through the 2016 Budget Law, Financial Note for 2016 State
Budget and the Presidential Regulation 137/2015.
2. 
The DG Treasury has completed the roll-out of the financial management information system
(SPAN) to all regional treasury offices, as evidenced through the issuance of the Certificate
of Operational Acceptance to the service provider.
3. 
The Borrower has enabled its ministries and agencies to engage in Availability Payment
Contracts for infrastructure projects with the private sector, as evidenced through the
Presidential Regulation 38/2015, Minister of Finance Regulation 190/2015, 
Head of
Bappenas Regulation 4/2015 and Head of LKPP Regulation 19/2015.
4. 
The Minister of Finance has reduced major barriers for ministries and agencies to issue multi-
year contracts for government procurement by: (a) not requiring the land acquisition process,
which remains necessary, to be completed prior to submission of multi-year contracts to the
Minister of Finance; (b) eliminating the requirement for an external audit for no-cost contract
extensions; and (c) increasing the flexibility of annual budget reallocation for multi-year
contracts, as evidenced through the Minister of Finance Regulation 238/2015.
5. 
The Borrower has enabled the increased usage of early procurement for capital projects listed
in the 2016 State Budget, as evidenced through the Presidential Instruction 1/2015, Minister
of Public Works and Housing Instruction 3/2015 and Minister of Finance Circular Letter S-
577/2015.
Pillar B: 
Strengthening Revenue Administration
6. 
The DG Taxes has launched in July 1, 2015 an electronic VAT invoice online application
that ensures systematic submission of detailed information on taxable goods and services by
taxpayers, as evidenced through the DG Taxes Decree 136/2014.
7. 
The DG Taxes has reduced the burden of the Validation Process for individual e-filing by
allowing tax officers to validate on the premises of employers with twenty or more
employees, as evidenced through the DG Taxes Regulation 41/2015.
7 of 16 
LN 8618-ID
8. 
The DG Taxes has abolished the statement of regional information in the taxpayer
identification number so that taxpayers will not receive new tax IDs when they move to a
different region as a major step in establishing a unique and permanent taxpayer
identification system, as evidenced through the DG Taxes Circular Letter SE 44/2015.
9. 
The DG Taxes and BPN have implemented an electronic data exchange to enable DG Taxes
to access taxpayers' land asset data held by BPN for compliance purposes in a systematic
manner.
Pillar C: 
Enhancing Tax Policy
10. 
The Minister of Finance has submitted to the Minister of Law and Human Rights the white
paper (naskah akademik) for the revision of the VAT and LGST Law No. 42 of 2009 that
recommends: (a) broadening the VAT base by rationalizing exemptions and limiting the
Ministry of Finance's discretion in granting exemptions; (b) replacing vehicle LGST with a
vehicle excise tax; and (c) incorporating remaining LGST goods into the VAT regime.
11. 
The Minister of Finance has established a maximum debt-to-equity ratio of 4:1 for
calculating the allowable deduction from interest paid on debt to address thin capitalization,
as evidenced through the Minister of Finance Regulation 169/2015.
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice
to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from
which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. 
The allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan Tranche
Allocated
(expressed in US$)
Single Withdrawal Tranche 
400,000,000
TOTAL AMOUNT 
400,000,000
C. 
Payment of Front-end Fee. No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account until the
Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee.
D. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions. 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single
Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by
the Borrower; and (b) with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework.
8 of 16 
LN 8618-ID
E. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and
2. 
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into this
account, an equivalent 
amount is accounted 
for in the Borrower's budget
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
F. 
Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not
be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an amount
of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment
to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
G. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is December 31, 2016.
9 of 16 
LN 8618-ID
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of
the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date ("Installment
Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
1 June 01, 2022 
2.08
2 
December 01, 2022 
2.13
3 
June 01, 2023 
2.19
4 
December 01, 2023 
2.24
5 
June 01, 2024 
2.30
6 December 01, 2024 
2.35
7 
June 01, 2025 
2.41
8 December 01, 2025 
2.47
9 
June 01, 2026 
2.53
10 December 01, 2026 
2.60
11 
June 01, 2027 
2.66
12 
December 01, 2027 
2.73
13 
June 01, 2028 
2.80
14 
December 01, 2028 
2.87
15 
June 01, 2029 
2.94
16 December 01, 2029 
3.01
17 
June 01, 2030 
3.09
18 
December 01, 2030 
3.17
19 
June 01, 2031 
3.24
20 
December 01, 2031 
3.33
21 
June 01, 2032 
3.41
22 
December 01, 2032 
3.49
23 
June 01, 2033 
3.58
24 
December 01, 2033 
3.67
25 
June 01, 2034 
3.76
26 
December 01, 2034 
3.86
27 
June 01, 2035 
3.95
28 
December 01, 2035 
4.05
29 June 01, 2036 
4.15
30 December 01, 2036 
4.26
31 
June 01, 2037 
4.36
32 
December 01, 2037 
4.32
10 of 16 
LN 8618-ID
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment
Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as of
such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on each
Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date,
such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred
to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on
the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be
repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal
Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any time
the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on or after
the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no
longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to
the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
11 of 16 
LN 8618-ID
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"2016 Budget Law" means the Borrower's law No. 14 of 2015 that sets out the 2016 State
Budget.
2. 
"Availability Payment Contracts" means contracts to be entered into between a ministry or an
agency of the Borrower and a private entity on concessionary payments for the availability of
services provided by said private entity to the Borrower.
3. 
"Bappenas" means Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Nasional, the Borrower's agency
responsible for national development planning, or any successor thereto.
4. 
"BPN" means Kementerian Agraria dan Tata Ruang/Badan Pertanahan Nasional, the
Borrower's ministry responsible for agrarian and spatial affairs and national land agency, or
any successor thereto.
5. 
"Certificate of Operational Acceptance" means the letter No. 17/COA/SPAN/2015 and
issued by DG Treasury to the service provider stating that all contractual terms had been
fulfilled and the system ownership of SPAN had been transferred to DG Treasury.
6. 
"DG Taxes" means the Directorate General of Taxation (Direktorat Jenderal Pajak) of the
Ministry of Finance, or any successor thereto.
7. 
"DG Taxes Circular Letter" means Surat Edaran Direktur Jenderal Pajak, a circular of DG
Taxes.
8. 
"DG Taxes Decree" means Keputusan Direktur Jenderal Pajak, a decree of DG Taxes.
9. 
"DG Taxes Regulation" means Peraturan Direktur Jenderal Pajak, a regulation of DG
Taxes.
10. 
"DG Treasury" means the Directorate General of Treasury of the Ministry of Finance
(Direktorat Jenderal Perbendaharaan), or any successor thereto.
11. 
"Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or international
financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association has financed or
agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association has financed or agreed to
finance under another loan, credit, or grant;
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by
the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
12 of 16 
LN 8618-ID
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item
112 
Alcoholic beverages
121 
Tobacco, un-manufactured,
tobacco refuse
122 
Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)
525 
Radioactive and associated
materials
667 
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones, unworked
or worked
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury consumption;
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the
Borrower is a party, and any other goods designated as environmentally hazardous by
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank;
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or
coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other
recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower (or other such recipient) having
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices
when they occur.
12. 
"Financial Note for 2016 State Budget" means the policy note issued as part of the 2016 State
Budget.
13. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
13 of 16 
LN 8618-ID
14. 
"Head of Bappenas Regulation" means Peraturan Menteri Perencanaan Pembangunan
Nasional/Kepala Bappenas, a regulation of the Head of Bappenas.
15. 
"Law" means the Borrower's law.
16. 
"LGST" means luxury goods sales tax.
17. 
"LKPP" means Lembaga Kebijakan Pengadaan Barang/Jasa Pemerintah, the Borrower's
agency responsible for procurement policies, or any successor thereto.
18. 
"Head of LKPP Regulation" means Peraturan Lembaga Kebijakan Pengadaan Barang/Jasa
Pemerintah, a regulation of the Head of LKPP.
19. 
"Minister of Finance" or "Ministry of Finance" means the Borrower's minister or ministry
responsible for finance, or any successor thereto.
20. 
"Minister of Finance Circular Letter" means Surat Edaran Menteri Keuangan, a circular
letter of the Minister of Finance.
21. 
"Minister of Finance Regulation" means Peraturan Menteri Keuangan, a regulation of the
Minister of Finance.
22. 
"Minister of Law and Human Rights" means the Borrower's minister responsible for legal
and human rights affairs, or any successor thereto.
23. 
"Minister of Public Works and Housing" means the Borrower's minister responsible for
carrying out public works and housing, or any successor thereto.
24. 
"Minister of Public Works and Housing Instruction" means Instruksi Menteri Pekerjaan
Umum dan Perumahan Rakyat, an instruction of the Minister of Public Works and Housing.
25. 
"President" means the Borrower's head of state and head of executive.
26. 
"Presidential Instruction" means Instruksi Presiden, an instruction of the President.
27. 
"Presidential Regulation" means Peraturan Presiden, a regulation of the President.
28. 
"Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote growth
and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the letter dated
March 31, 2016 from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower's commitment to the
execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program
during its execution.
29. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category
entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule
1 to this Agreement.
14 of 16 
LN 8618-ID
30. 
"SPAN" means Sistem Perbendaharaan dan Anggaran Negara, the Borrower's state budget
and treasury system.
31. 
"Validation Process" means the process to validate an electronic filing identification number
and taxpayer's information to allow taxpayer to submit tax returns electronically.
32. 
"VAT" means value added tax.
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers are
modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for Withdrawal)
is deleted in its entirety.
3. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in their
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
4. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). 
The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan Agreement
to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan
Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on
each Payment Date."
5. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management; Financial
Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the subsequent Sections in Article V are
renumbered accordingly.
6. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above and
relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
15 of 16 
LN 8618-ID
7. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above) is
modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until two
years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine such records."
8. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above) is
modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish to
the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the Program,
the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations
under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."
9. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all references to Section numbers and paragraphs are modified,
as necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above.
10. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition of
"Commitment Charge", and renumbering the remaining paragraphs accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
11. 
Renumbered paragraph 
37 (originally paragraph 
36) 
of the Appendix 
("Eligible
Expenditure") is modified to read as follows:
"37. 
"Eligible Expenditure" means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the
Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan Agreement."
12. 
Renumbered 
paragraph 44 (originally paragraph 43) of the Appendix ("Financial
Statements") is deleted in its entirety.
13. 
In paragraph 48 of the Appendix, the definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing
the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
14. 
In paragraph 67 of the Appendix, the definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to
read as follows:
16 of 16 
LN 8618-ID
"67. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank pursuant
to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited to) any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the Commitment
Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment premium, any
transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread
Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap
or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
15. 
In paragraph 72 of the Appendix, the definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting
the word "is" 
and inserting the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word
"interest".
16. 
The defined term "Project" in paragraph 75 of the Appendix is modified to read "Program"
and its definition is modified to read as follows (and all references to "Project" throughout
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to "Program"):
"75. 
"Program" means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of which
the Loan is made."
