OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8631-IN
Loan Agreement
(North Eastern Region Power System Improvement Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
,2016
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8631-IN
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement 
dated 
N &A -2, 
2016, 
between 
INDIA 
("Borrower") 
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of four hundred seventy million United States dollars
(USD 470,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to this
Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread- provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02
(e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.
-2-
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or
vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference
Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.09. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit (as
said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of this Section), the
Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of one half of one percent
(0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-
paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The
Exposure Surcharge (if any) shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each
Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set forth
below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during which
the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit, the product of:
-3-
(A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the ratio of alt (or, if the
Bank so determines, a portion) of the Loan to the aggregate amount of all
(or the equivalent portions) of the loans made by the Bank to the
Borrower and to other borrowers guaranteed by the Borrower that are
also subject to an exposure surcharge, as said excess and ratio are
reasonably determined from time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the Bank's
financial exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded, would subject the
Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined from time to time by the
Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total financial
exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
ARTICLE M -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project Implementing Entity in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the Project
Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consists of the following:
(a) 
the Project Implementing Entity's Legal Framework has been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely
the ability of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement, the MoP Office Memorandum and/or any
Implementation/Participation Agreement, without the written agreement of the
Bank; or
(b) 
the MoP 
Office 
Memorandum 
and/or any Implementation/Participation
Agreement has been materially amended, or suspended, revoked, annulled,
waived and/or voided, whether in whole or in part, without the written agreement
of the Bank, or
(c) 
a situation has arisen under which any of the Participating State can no longer
fulfill its obligation under its respective Supplementary Project Agreement,
and/or any Supplementary Project Agreement has been revoked, suspended,
-4-
annulled, waived or voided, whether in whole or in part, without the written
agreement of the Bank.
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following:
(a) 
That any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement
occurs.
(b) 
That any event specified in paragraphs (b) or (c) of Section 4.01 of this
Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of thirty (30) days after notice of
the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower and the Project
Implementing Entity.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is any of the following officials, acting severally:
Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary, or Under
Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs of the Borrower's Ministry of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Department of Economic Affaires
Ministry of Finance
Government of India
North Block
New Delhi 100 001
India
Facsimile:
91-11-23092039
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Facsimile:
1-202477-6391
-5-
AGREED at 
, India, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By 
2- //21eU.
Authorized Representative
Name: 
U I 
JPrR
Title: \6-t0t ~Last 
M
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
11-1;N 
Ff A-t
Title: A 
t'tj'.P-Cci-h 
4'dL
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to increase the delivery of electricity at the boundaries of
the power distribution network in the Participating States in the North Eastern Region.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Component A: 
Priority 
Investments 
for Strengthening 
Intra-State 
Transmission. 
Sub-
Transmission and Distribution Systems
Strengthening and augmenting the intra-state transmission, sub-transmission and
distribution networks of Participating States by: (i) constructing new, 220 kV, 132 kV, 66
kV, 33kV transmission lines and associated sub-stations; and (ii) augmenting capacity of
220 kV, 132 kV, 66kV, and 33 kV lines and associated sub-stations.
Component B: 
Technical Assistance for Capacity Building and Institutional Strengthening of
the Power Utilities and Departments of Participating States
Providing technical 
assistance to the Respective 
Power Utility/Department 
of
Participating States to implement their capacity building and institutional strengthening
plans for (i) reinforcing the key skills of staff in the core functions of operations and
maintenance of systems including revenue collection, load management, operational and
maintenance 
practices, 
environmental 
and 
social protocols/standards, 
financial,
procurement and human resources management; and (ii) improving efficiency and quality
of service delivery to consumers.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Facilitation of Funds to the Project Implementing Entity
1. 
The Borrower shall make proceeds of the Loan available directly to the Project
Implementing Entity (for the benefit of the Participating States) in accordance with the
terms and conditions set forth in the MoP Office Memorandum and the implementation
arrangements agreed among the Borrower, the Participating States, the Project
Implementation Entity and the Bank, as further detailed in the SS-PIPs.
2. 
The Borrower shall make its best efforts to ensure that each Participating State carries out
the Project activities in its respective territory as required by this Agreement, the Project
Agreement, each respective Implementation/Participation Agreement and each respective
Supplementary Project Agreement.
B. 
Steering Committee
The Borrower, acting through MoP, shall maintain throughout the period of
implementation of the Project, a Project Steering Committee, with terms of reference and
composition agreed with the Bank, headed by a representative of MoP and comprised of
representatives of MoP and the Participating States; which committee shall be
responsible for monitoring the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project,
coordinating activities among the Project Implementing Entity and the Participating
States and providing guidance, to the Project Implementing Entity in the carrying out of
the Project.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D. 
Safeguards
The Borrower shall make its best efforts to ensure that the Participating States:
(a) 
carry out the their responsibilities under the SS-ESPPFs, IEARs, RAPs, EMPs,
CPTDs and/or TPDPs (the "Safeguards Documents") prepared, and/or to be
prepared and publicly disclosed, as required, by the Project Implementing Entity
and/or the Respective Power Utilities/Departments, as the case may be, pursuant
to paragraph 2 of Section I.E. of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, in each
case in a manner and in substance satisfactory to the Bank
-8-
(b) 
ensure that the Respective Power Utility/Department complies with the
applicable Safeguard Documents as well as any related obligations set forth in
the respective Implementation/Participation Agreement; and
(c) 
refrain from taking any action which would prevent or interfere with the Project
Implementing Entity's and/or the Respective Power Utility/Department's,
implementation of the Safeguard Documents, including any amendment,
suspension, waiver, annulment and/or voidance of any provision of such
documents, whether in whole or in part, without the prior written agreement of
the Bank.
E. 
Ineligible Expenditures
The Borrower shall ensure that the following Project expenditures are financed
exclusively out of the Borrower's own resources and not out of the proceeds of the Loan,
and, to this end, the Borrower shall provide, as promptly as needed, the resources
required therefor, namely:
(a) 
al land acquisition/purchases required for the purpose of the Project;
(b) 
any compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation payment to Affected Persons
in accordance with the provision of the RAPs, CPTDs and TPDP;
(c) 
any consultancy fee to be paid to the Project Implementing Entity on account of
its carrying out the Project;
(d) 
any taxes levied by the Participating States;
(e) 
any compensatory afforestation payments;
(f) 
any interest during construction (IDC); and
(g) 
activities to be carried out under Component B of the Project.
F. 
Asset Transfer
The Borrower shall make its best efforts to ensure that each Participating State and its
Respective Power Utility/Department takes all actions required on their part to assume, in
a manner satisfactory to the Bank, the ownership and the maintenance of the assets
created under the Project upon their commissioning.
-9-
Section H. 
Project Monitorinz Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
I. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and, shall cause the
Project Implementing Entity to prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions
of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the
Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be
fu-nished to the Bank not later than sixty (60) days after the end of the period covered by
such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
I. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall cause
the Project implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than sixty
(610) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for
the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall, and shall cause the Project implementing Entity to, have the Project
Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the
General Conditions. Each audit of the Project Financial Statements shall cover the period
of one fiscal year of the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity, commencing
with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal was made. 
The audited Project
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than
nine (9) months after the end of such period.
Section IIL 
Procurement
A. 
General
I. 
All goods, works, consulting services and non-consulting services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in the Procurement Regulations and the
provisions of the Procurement Plan.
B. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth the applicable requirements for the Bank's Prior
and Post Review, in accordance with the review procedures set out in Annex II
(Procurement Oversight) of the Procurement Regulations.
-10-
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1I 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
Expenditures in each Category.
Percentage of Expenditures
Amount of the Loan 
to be financed
Category 
Allocated 
(inclusive of Taxes, except
(expressed in USD) 
Taxes levied by the
Participating States)
(1) Goods, works, consultants'
services and non-
consulting services under 
468,825,000 
100%
Component A; as well as
audit costs for the Project.
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 
2.03 
of 
this
(2) Front-end Fee 
1,175,000 
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions
(3) Interest Rate Cap or 
Amount 
due 
pursuant 
to
Interest Rate Collar 
0 
Section 
2.08(c) 
of 
this
premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
470,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
I1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount 
not 
to exceed 
ninety four million United States 
Dollars
-11-
(USD 94,000,000) may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after
March 1, 2016], for Eligible Expenditures under Category (1).
2. 
The Closing Date is March 31, 2023.
-12
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each June 15 and December 15
2.56%
Beginning December 15, 2021
through June 15, 2040
On December 15, 2040 
2.72%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
-13-
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be detennined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relaiing to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-14-
APPENDIX
Section 1. 
Definitions
"Affected Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of the Project, have
experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by: (a) the
involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets
or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not
such persons must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to
legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impact on the
livelihoods of such persons.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
3. 
"Assam" means the Borrower's State of Assam.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
5. 
"Central Project Implementation Unit" means the unit established by the Project
Implementing Entity referred to in Section I.A.1(a) of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.
6. 
"CPTD" means the respective compensatory plans for temporary damages, each
agreed/to be agreed with the Bank, contained in the SS-ESPPFs which set forth the
entitlement matrix for the payment of compensations to Project affected people who
suffer minor and temporary disturbances in the use of their land, as defined in the SS-
ESPPF on account of the erection of towers for the power transmission lines under the
Project; as such plans may be revised/updated from time to time with the prior written
agreement of the Bank.
7. 
"EMP" means each environmental management plan, acceptable to the Bank, prepared
and/or to be prepared by the Project Implementing Entity in conjunction with Respective
Power Utility/Department pursuant to Section I.E.2 of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement, in accordance with the provisions of the respective SS-ESPPFs, in each case
setting out mitigation, enhancement, monitoring and institutional measures, including
capacity building through training, required to: (i) eliminate adverse environmental
impacts of activities to be implemented under the Project; (ii) offset them, or reduce them
to acceptable levels; and (iii) enhance any positive impacts thereof, as such plans may be
revised/updated, from time to time, with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
8. 
"Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980" means the Borrower's Forest (Conservation) Act,
1980 as amended in 1988 and the rules applicable thereto on the date of this Agreement.
-15-
9. 
"General 
Conditions" 
means the "Intemational 
Bank for Reconstruction 
and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
10. 
"IEAR" means each of the initial environmental assessments reports carried out, or to be
carried out, in a form and substance agreed with the Bank, by the Project Implementing
Entity in conjunction with the Respective Power Utility/Department with jurisdiction
over the areas where assessed activities are (to be) implemented, pursuant to Section
I.E.2(a) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, as such documents may be
revised/updated from time to time, with the prior written agreement with the Bank.
11. 
"Implementation/Participation Agreement" means each of the following implementation
agreements entered into between the Respective Power Utility/Department and the
Project Implementing Entity, in relation to the Project Implementing Entity's carrying out
of Project activities in the jurisdiction of the Respective Power Utility/Department, on
behalf of utility/department, and referred to in Section I.B.l(a) of the Project Agreement,
namely in respect of:
(a) 
Assam: (i) the agreement between the Project Implementing Entity and Assam
Electricity Grid Corporation Ltd., dated May 29, 2015; and (ii) the agreement
between the Project Implementing Entity and Assam Power Distribution
Company Ltd. dated May 29, 2015;
(b) 
Manipur, the agreement between the Project Implementing Entity and Manipur
State Power Company Ltd., dated April 18, 2015;
(c) 
Meghalaya: (i) the agreement between the Project Implementing Entity and
Meghalaya Power Transmission Corporation Ltd., dated March 23, 2015; and (ii)
the agreement between the Project Implementing Entity and Meghalaya Power
Distribution Corporation Ltd., dated March 19, 2015;
(d) 
Mizoram, the agreement between the Project Implementing Entity and Power and
Electricity Department of the Government of Mizoram, dated July 3, 2015;
(e) 
Nagaland, the agreement between the Project Implementing Entity and
Department of Power of the Government of Nagaland dated March 26, 2015; and
(f) 
Tripura, the agreement between the Project Implementing Entity and Tripura
State Electricity Corporation Ltd., dated March 13, 2015;
in each case, as such agreements may be amended from time to time with the
prior written agreement of the Bank
12. 
"Manipur" means the Boriower's State of Manipur.
13. 
"Meghalaya" means the Borrower's State of Meghalaya.
-16-
14. 
"Mizoram3" means the Borrower's State of Mizoram.
15. 
"MoP" means India's Ministry of Power, or any successor thereto.
16. 
"MoP Office Memorandum" means collectively the Memoranda No. 15/2/2014-Fin.,
dated September 15', 2014 and F. No3/16/2013-Trans, dated December 1', 2014 issued
by MoP.
17. 
"Nagaland" means the Borrower's State of Nagaland.
18. 
"North Eastern Region" means for purposes of this Project, collectively, the geographical
area covered by the States of Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland and
Tripura.
19. 
"Participating States" means, collectively, Assan, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram,
Nagaland and Tripura.
20. 
"PMC Pioject Implementation Units" and the acronym 'TPIJs" mean each unit to be
established by the Project Implementing Entity within each Participating State pursuant
to the respective Implementation/Participation Agreement, and referred to in Section
I.A.1(b) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
21. 
"Power Grid Corporation of India Limited" means the Borrower's central public sector
enterprise, registered under the Borrower's Companies Act (1956) pursuant to Reg. No.
L40101DL1989GOl 038121, having its registered office at B-9 Qutub Institutional Area,
Katwaria Sarai, New Delhi, 110016, India.
22. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated May
23, 2016 and provided for under Section IV of the Procurement Regulations, as the same
shall be updated from time to time in agreement with the Bank.
23. 
"Procurement Regulations" means the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for
Borrowers - Procurement in Investment Project Financing" dated July 1, 2016.
24. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means Power Grid Corporation of India Limited.
25. 
"Project Implementing Entity's Legal Framework" means the Memorandum and Articles
of Association of Power Grid Corporation of India Limited, dated April 25*1, 2013, as
amended to the date of this Agreement.
26. 
"Project Steering Committee" means the Project committee to be established by the
borrower pursuant to Section I.B. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
27. 
"RAP" means each of the resettlement action plans, agreed with the Bank, to be prepared
and publicly disclosed by the Participating States and the Project Implementing Entity
-17-
pursuant to Section I.E.2 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, in accordance with
the provisions of the respective Participating State's SS-ESPPF, setting forth any
compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement assistance to be provide to Affected
Persons, in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank, on account of Project
implementation, as such plans may be revised/updated from time to time with the prior
written agreement of the Bank.
28. 
"Respective Power Utility/Department" means in respect of:
(a) 
Assam: (i) the Assam Electricity Grid Corporation Ltd., an Assam's state owned
power transmission utility, registered under the Borrower's Companies Act
(1956) pursuant to Reg. No. (CIN) U40101AS2003SGC007238; and (ii) the
Assam Power Distribution Company Ltd.., an Assam's state owned power
distribution utility, registered under the Borrower's Companies Act (1956)
pursuant to Reg. No. (CIN) U40109AS2003SGC007242; both such companies
having their registered offices at Bijulee Bhawan, Paltan Bazar, Guwahati - 781
001;
(b) 
Manipur: the Manipur State Power Company Ltd., .a Manipur's state owned
power generation and transmission utility, registered under the Borrower's
Companies Act (1956) pursuant to Reg. No. (CIN) U40101MN2013SGC008344,
having its registered office at the Electricity Complex Patta No 1293, Khwai
Bazar, Keishampat Junction Imphal -795 001;
(c) 
Meghalaya: (i) the Meghalaya Power Transmission Corporation Ltd., a
Meghalaya's state owned power transmission utility, registered under the
Borrower's 
Companies 
Act 
(1956) 
pursuant 
to 
Reg. 
No. 
(CIN)
U40101ML2009SGC008393; 
and (ii) the Meghalaya Power Distribution
Corporation Ltd., a Meghalaya's state owned power distribution utility,
registered under the Borrower's Companies Act (1956) pursuant to Reg. No.
(CIN) U40101ML2009SGC008394; both such companies having their registered
offices at Lum Jingshai, Short Round Road, Shillong - 793 001;
(d) 
Mizoram: the Power and Electricity Department of the Government of Mizoram;
(e) 
Nagaland: the Department of Power of the Government of Nagaland, and
(f) 
Tripura: the Tripura State Electricity Corporation Ltd., a Tripura's state owned
power integrated power transmission and distribution utility, registered under the
Borrower's 
Companies 
Act 
(1956) 
pursuant 
to 
Reg. 
No. 
(CIN)
U40101TR2004SGC007434, having its registered office at Bidyut Bhavan,
Benamalipur, Agartala, Tripura.
29. 
"Safeguard Documents" meahs, collectively, the SS-ESPPFs, IEAR(s), RA.Ps, EMPs,
CPTDs and TPDPs.
-18-
30. 
"SS-ESPPF" means in respect of:
(a) 
Assam: the Assam's state-specific environmental and social policy and
procedures framework dated June 2015, and disclosed in the Bank's Infoshop on
June 29, 2015;
(b) 
Manipur the Manipur's state-specific environmental and social policy and
procedures framework dated June 2015, and disclosed in the Bank's Infoshop on
August 17, 2015;
(c) 
Meghalaya: the Meghalaya's state-specific environmental and social policy and
procedures framework dated June 2015, and disclosed in the Bank's Infoshop on
June 23, 2015;
(d) 
Mizoram: the Mizoram's state-specific environmental and social policy and
procedures framework dated June 2015, and disclosed in the Bank's Infoshop on
July 7, 2015;
(e) 
Nagaland: the Nagaland's state-specific environmental and social policy and
procedures framework dated June 2015, and disclosed in the Bank's Infoshop on
July 10, 2015; and
(f) 
Tripura: the Tripura's state-specific environmental and social policy and
procedures framework dated June 2015, and disclosed in the Bank's Infoshop on
June 17, 2015;
all such documents setting forth the Respective Power Utilities/Department's policies and
procedures for carrying out environmental and social assessment of investment activities,
preparing and implementing environmental assessment, mitigation and management
plans, and, where applicable, resettlement and rehabilitation action plans, tribal
development plans, and other development plans and entitlement frameworks for people
adversely affected as a result of the implementation of their respective investment
activities, including carrying out consultations, processing and redressing grievances,
and monitoring the impact thereof, as such documents may be revised/updated from time
to time, with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
31. 
"State-Specific 
Project Implementation Plan" and the acronym "SS-PIP" mean
individually, each of the state specific project implementation plans prepared and adopted
by the Project Implementing Entity in conjunction with the Respective Power
Utility/Department on July 2015, as said plans may be revised/updated from time to time,
with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
32. 
"State Project Coordination Unit" and the acronym "SPCU" mean the unit to be
established by the Respective Power Utility/Department pursuant to the respective
Implementation/Participation Agreement, and referred to in Section I.B.1(c) of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.
-19-
33. 
"Supplementary Project Agreement" means the individual tripartite agreement entered
into between the Borrower, the Bank and each Participating State on the same date of this
Agreement, in relation to the implementation of Project activities in the respective
territories of the Participating States, as such agreement may be amended from time to
time with the prior written agreement of all the parties thereto.
34. 
"TPDP" means each of the Tribal Peoples development plans, agreed/to be agreed with
the Bank, to be prepared and publicly disclosed by the Project Implementing Entity and
the Project 
Implementing 
Entity 
in 
conjunction 
with the Respective 
Power
Utility/Department in accordance with the respective SS-ESPPF, setting forth the
principles and procedures, including mitigation and adaptive measures to offset, reduce to
acceptable levels, or eliminate, any adverse social impact of Project activities on Tribal
Peoples, including measures designed to ensure meaningful consultation with, and
informed participation of, Tribal Peoples and their communities in the design and
implementation of Project activities, as well as their participation in the envisioned
culturally appropriate and socially inclusive benefits thereof; as such plans may be
amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
35. 
"Tribal Peoples" means any distinct social and cultural group within the territory of the
Borrower, that: (i) self-identifies as such and claims, and is recognized by others as,
having a distinguishable. cultural identity; (ii) has collective attachment to geographically
distinct habitats or ancestral territories in the Project areas, and to the natural resources in
these habitat and territories; (iii) .has customary cultural, economic, social and political
institutions that are separate from those of the dominant society and culture; and (iv) has
an indigenous language, often different from the official or predominant languages of the
Borrower.
36. 
"Tripura" means the Borrower's State of Tripura.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn
Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge").
The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
-20-
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-
annually in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition
of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition
-of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section
3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition
of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows in order to include
"surcharge":
"68. 
'Loan Payment' means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, interest at
the Default Interest Rate (if any), the Commitment Charge, any surcharge, any
prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a
Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding
Amount payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and
Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
