OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8645-EG
Loan Agreement
(Upper Egypt Local Development Program)
between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
OJO 
K 
, 2016
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8645-EG
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
2016, between ARAB REPUBLIC OF
EGYPT ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized tenns used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of five hundred million United States Dollars
(US$500,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"),
to assist in financing the program described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Program").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower's Representative for purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is the Ministry of Finance.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower on the withdrawn Loan Balance and outstanding from
time to time for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the Reference Rate (as
defined in paragraph 83 of the General Conditions, renumbered as such pursuant to
paragraph 14 of Section II of the Appendix to this Agreement) for the Loan Currency plus
the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are July 15 and January 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
-2-
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest
rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the
Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.09. 
The Borrower represents that it has designated its Ministry of Finance for the purpose of
handling on behalf of the Borrower, debt service payments with respect to the Loan.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Program. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out the Program through the Select Governorates, with the assistance
of the PCO and in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions
and this Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Program is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that any legislation,
license or other legal instrument related to the implementation of the Program has been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely
the achievement of the objectives of the Program. Any suspension based on this Section
-3-
shall continue until the event (or events) which gave rise to the suspension has (or have)
ceased to exist, unless the Bank has notified the Borrower that such right to make
withdrawals has been restored.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
Subject to the other provisions of this Article and Section 9.01 of the General Conditions,
this Agreement shall become effective once the Bank has received evidence that all
necessary constitutional procedures have been taken by the Borrower.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred eighty (180) days after the date of this
Agreement or such later date as the Bank may establish in accordance with the provisions
of Section 9.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Minister of International
Cooperation of the Borrower is designated as the Borrower's Representative.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of International Cooperation
8 Adly Street
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address: 
Facsimile:
Ministry of International Cooperation 
(202) 2391-2815
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt 
(202) 2391-5167
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at Washington, D.C., United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By
Xuthorized Repre 
ative
ame: 
_________
Title:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Represert ive
Name: 
i- 
be#'
Title: Ytl-e 
ceA~
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Description
The objectives of the Program are to improve the business environment for private sector
development and strengthen local government capacity for quality infrastructure and service
delivery in Select Governorates in Upper Egypt.
The Program is a part of the Borrower's Inclusive Economic Development Program for
Lagging Regions and consists of the following activities:
Part A. Improving Business Environment and Competitiveness
1. 
Improving government-to-business services in the Qena Governorate and the Sohag
Governorate through: (a) establishing a One Stop Shop in each of said governorates to
provide registration, company incorporation, and post-registration support services to
businesses; and (b) developing an information technology-enabled service delivery
platform to improve the delivery of government-to-business services in district service
centers in each of said governorates.
2. 
Carrying out sector-specific programs with private sector participation in the Qena
Governorate and the Sohag Governorate to identify key entry points for private sector
development and to enhance competitiveness of sectors through: (a) conducting public-
private dialogues on opportunities and priorities for economic growth; (b) launching and
implementing Cluster Competitiveness Initiatives with private sector collaboration;
(c) providing firm-level business development services and training; and (d) identifying
and promoting investment opportunities in priority sectors.
3. 
Improving management and access to services in industrial zones in the Qena Governorate
and the Sohag Governorate through: (a) developing Industrial Zone Modernization Plans
to be implemented in industrial zones located in each of said governorates; and
(b) introducing private management or public-private partnership arrangements for
industrial zones.
Part B. Improving Access to Quality Infrastructure and Services
1. 
Provision of Performance Grants to the Select Governorates to finance the carrying out of
infrastructure and services investments identified in the Annual Program Investment Plans
of the Select Governorates.
2. 
Carrying out audits to evaluate the technical quality of infrastructure and services
undertaken by the Select Governorates.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Program Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arran2ements
A. 
Program Fiduciary, Environmental and Social Systems
Without limitation on the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the Borrower
shall carry out the Program, or cause the Program to be carried out, in accordance with
financial management, procurement and environmental and social management systems
acceptable to the Bank ("Program Fiduciary, Environmental and Social Systems") which
are designed to ensure that:
1. 
the Loan proceeds are used for their intended purposes, with due attention to the principles
of economy, efficiency, effectiveness, transparency, and accountability; and
2. 
the actual and potential adverse environmental and social impacts of the Program are
identified, avoided, minimized, or mitigated, as the case may be, all through an informed
decision-making process.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall carry out
the Program, or cause the Program to be carried out, in accordance with the provisions of
the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Other Program Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
1 .
Without limitation on the generality of Part A of this Section I, the Borrower shall carry
out the Program Action Plan, or cause the Program Action Plan to be carried out, in
accordance with the schedule set out in the said Program Action Plan in a manner
acceptable to the Bank. Except as the Bank may agree after consultation with the Borrower,
the Borrower shall ensure that the Program Action Plan is not amended, waived,
suspended, terminated or abrogated.
2. 
Program Institutions
(a) 
(i) 
The Borrower shall establish, not later than one (1) month after the
Effective Date, and thereafter maintain, throughout the implementation of
the Program, a high level steering committee ("Steering Committee"),
with a composition, mandate, and resources acceptable to the Bank, to be
comprised of, inter alia, representatives from the ministries responsible
for international cooperation, trade and industry, local development, and
finance, and the governors of the Sohag Governorate and the Qena
Governorate.
(ii) 
Without limitation to sub-paragraph (i) immediately above, the Borrower
shall ensure that the Steering Committee is responsible for providing
-7-
strategic guidance and oversight to ensure prompt and efficient
implementation of the Program, in accordance with the provisions of the
Program Operational Manual.
(b) 
(i) 
The Borrower shall, through the Ministry of Trade and Industry, establish,
not later than one (1) month after the Effective Date, and thereafter
maintain, throughout the implementation of the Program, a coordination
office ("Program Coordination Office" or "PCO"), with functions,
staffing, and resources acceptable to the Bank, to be comprised of, inter
alia, representatives from the ministries responsible for local development
and trade and industry.
(ii) 
Without limitation to sub-paragraph (i) immediately above, the Borrower
shall, through the Ministry of Trade and Industry, ensure that the PCO is
responsible for: (i) the overall management, coordination, reporting,
monitoring, and evaluation of Program implementation; (ii) providing
technical support to the Steering Committee; (iii) hiring and interfacing
with the Independent Verification Agent; (iv) carrying out Annual
Performance Assessments; (v) carrying out the technical audits referred to
under Part B.2 of the Program; and (vi) facilitating financial audits for the
Program, all in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the
Program Operational Manual.
(c) 
The Borrower shall, through the Select Governorates, establish, not later than one
(1) month after the Effective Date, and thereafter maintain, throughout the
implementation of the Program, a local implementation unit in each of the Select
Governorates ("Local Implementation Unit" or "LIU"), with functions, staffing,
and resources acceptable to the Bank, to be responsible for implementation of
Program activities in the corresponding Select Governorate, including the
administration of overall planning, coordination, the technical, fiduciary (i.e.
procurement and financial management), environmental and social safeguards
compliance, monitoring, evaluation, reporting and communication of the Program
activities in the corresponding Select Governorate, all in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement and the Program Operational Manual.
(d) 
(i) 
The Borrower shall, through the Select Governorates, establish, not later
than one (1) month after the Effective Date, and thereafter maintain,
throughout the implementation of the Program, an economic council in
each of the Select Governorates ("Economic Council"), with functions,
staffing, and resources acceptable to the Bank, to be chaired by the
governor of the Select Governorate, and comprised of, inter alia,
representatives from the local executive council and the ministries
responsible for local development and trade and industry.
(ii) 
Without limitation to sub-paragraph (i) immediately above, the Borrower
shall ensure that the Economic Council is responsible for: (A) ensuring
citizen and private sector participation in the Program; (B) reviewing and
endorsing: (1) plans for citizen and private sector participation in the
Program; (2) Annual Program Investment Plans; (3) plans for Cluster
-8-
Competitiveness Initiatives; and (4) Industrial Zone Modernization Plans,
all for the corresponding Select Governorate and in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement and the Program Operational Manual.
(e) 
The Borrower shall, through the PCO, not later than three (3) months after the
Effective Date, hire and thereafter retain a consultant firm with terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank, to provide support to the LIUs and the PCO in the
management, implementation, and coordination of the Program, including in the
overall planning, fiduciary, environmental and social safeguards compliance, and
supervision of engineering works.
3. 
Program Operational Manual
(a) 
The Borrower shall, not later than one (1) month after the Effective Date, adopt a
manual acceptable to the Bank ("Program Operational Manual"), which shall
include the following: (i) the Operational Manual; (ii) the Performance Grant
Manual; and (iii) the Competitiveness Implementation Manual.
(b) 
The Borrower shall, through the Select Governorates and with the assistance of the
PCO, carry out the Program in accordance with the provisions of the Program
Operational Manual. Except as the Bank may agree after consultation with the
Borrower, the Borrower shall not amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any
provision of the Program Operational Manual; provided, however, that in case of
any conflict between the arrangements and procedures set out in the Program
Operational Manual and the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this
Agreement shall prevail.
4. 
Performance Grants
(a) 
The Borrower shall provide, for each Fiscal Year during the implementation of the
Program, a Performance Grant to each Select Governorate for the purpose of
carrying out its respective Annual Program Investment Plan, based on: (i) the
fulfillment by the Select Govemorate of the Minimum Access Criteria for a given
Fiscal Year starting from FY 16/17; and (ii) the achievement by the Select
Governorate of the minimum Performance Target for a given Fiscal Year starting
from FY 17/18, all in accordance with principles, methodology and arrangements
as set out in the Performance Grant Manual.
(b) 
The Borrower shall, through the PCO, carry out an Annual Performance
Assessment of each Select Govemorate for each Fiscal Year to evaluate: (i) the
fulfillment of the Minimum Access Criteria for the Fiscal Year starting from FY
16/17; and (ii) the achievement of the minimum Performance Target for the Fiscal
Year starting from FY 17/18; and, on the basis of such evaluation, to determine the
amount of the Performance Grant, all in accordance with principles, methodology
and arrangements as set out in the Performance Grant Manual.
5. 
The Borrower shall, through the PCO, not later than three (3) months after the Effective
Date, engage an Independent Verification Agent under terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank, to prepare and provide verification reports certifying the achievement of the DLRs,
-9-
all in accordance with procedures and arrangements acceptable to the Bank as referred to
in Section IV.B.1 (b) of this Schedule.
6. 
The Borrower shall, through the Select Govemorates, not later than six (6) months after
the Effective Date, establish a complaints and grievance redressal mechanism in each of
the Select Governorates to handle complaints and grievances from Program beneficiaries
or third parties relating to any aspects of the Program within the corresponding Select
Governorate, including adverse social and environmental impacts, and allegations of fraud
and corruption. Such mechanism shall, inter alia, contain procedures for recording of
complaints and grievances, directing the complainants to the appropriate level for action,
the review process, and provision for feedback to the complainant on the action taken on
the basis of best practice service standards.
7. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Program, the Borrower shall transfer in a timely manner
to the Qena Governorate and the Sohag Governorate the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn
from time to time under Categories (1) to (6) in the table in paragraph 2 of Section IV.A of
this Schedule. The Borrower shall ensure that such transfers shall be fully additional to the
regular annual budget allocations made by the Borrower for the Qena Governorate and the
Sohag Governorate.
8. 
The Borrower shall take all actions as may be needed in order to enable the Qena
Governorate and the Sohag Govemorate to implement the Program activities within the
respective governorates.
Section H. 
Excluded Activities
The Borrower shall ensure that the Program excludes any activities which:
A. 
in the opinion of the Bank, are likely to have significant adverse impacts that are sensitive,
diverse, or unprecedented on the environment and/or affected people; or
B. 
involve the procurement of: (1) works, estimated to cost fifty million United States Dollars
(US$50,000,000) equivalent or more per contract; (2) goods, estimated to cost thirty
million United States Dollars (US$30,000,000) equivalent or more per contract; (3) non-
consulting 
services, 
estimated to cost twenty million 
United 
States Dollars
(US$20,000,000) equivalent or more per contract; or (4) consultants' services, estimated
to cost fifteen million United States Dollars (US$15,000,000) equivalent or more per
contract.
Section III. 
Pro2ram Monitorin2, Reportin2 and Evaluation; Audits
A. 
Program Reports
The Borrower shall, through the PCO, monitor and evaluate the progress of the Program
and prepare Program Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the
General Conditions. Each Program Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar
semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one (1) month after the end of
the period covered by such report.
-10-
B. 
Program Financial Audits
Without limitation on the generality of Section I.A of this Schedule 2 and Section 5.09 of
the General Conditions, the Borrower shall have the Financial Statements audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Unless
otherwise agreed with the Bank, each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the
period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each
such period shall be: (a) furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end
of such period; and (b) made publicly available in a timely fashion and in a manner
acceptable to the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the
Bank may specify from time to time by notice to the Borrower to: (a) pay the Front-end
Fee; (b) pay each Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar premium; and (c) finance the
results ("Disbursement Linked Results" or "DLRs") achieved by the Borrower, as
measured against specific indicators ("Disbursement Linked Indicators" or "DLIs"); all as
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 of this Part A.
2. 
The following table specifies each category of withdrawal of the proceeds of the Loan
(including the Disbursement Linked Indicators as applicable) ("Category"), the
Disbursement Linked Results for each Category (as applicable), and the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category:
Category 
Disbursement 
Amount of the 
Disbursement
(including Disbursement 
Linked Result (as 
Loan 
Calculation
Linked Indicator as 
applicable) 
Allocated 
Formula
applicable) 
(expressed in
USD)
(1) DLI #1: Increase in 
DLR #1: 20 
50,000,000 
DLR #1:
Occupancy Rate in 
percentage point 
For each of Qena
industrial zones in each of 
increase in 
Governorate and
Qena Governorate and 
Occupancy Rate in 
Sohag
Sohag Governorate 
each of Qena 
Governorate:
(Occupancy Rate 
Governorate and
baselines: 14% for Qena 
Sohag Governorate 
(i) $5,000,000 for
Governorate and 34% for 
the first 4
Sohag Governorate for 
percentage increase
FY 15/16) 
in Occupancy Rate;
(ii) $1,250,000 for
each additional 1
percentage point
increase in
Occupancy Rate
-11-
(2) DLI #2: Number of 
DLR #2.1: Industrial 
40,750,000 
DLR #2.1:
industrial zones in each of 
Zone Modenization 
$6,000,000 of
Qena Governorate and 
Plan developed and 
which $3,000,000
Sohag Governorate 
adopted for each of 
for each of Qena
implementing their 
Qena Governorate 
Governorate and
respective Industrial Zone 
and Sohag 
Sohag Governorate
Modernization Plan 
Governorate by FY
(Baseline: 0 for FY 15/16) 
17/18
DLR #2.2.1: 
DLR #2.2.1:
Industrial Zone 
$8,000,000 of
Modernization Plan 
which $4,000,000
implemented in 2 
for each industrial
industrial zones in 
zone
Qena Governorate
DLR #2.2.2: 
DLR 
#2.2.2:
Industrial Zone 
$16,000,000 
of
Modernization Plan 
which 
$4,000,000
implemented in 4 
for each industrial
industrial zones in 
zone
Sohag Governorate
DLR #2.3: Private 
DLR #2.3:
management or 
$10,750,000 of
public-private 
which $5,375,000
partnership 
for each industrial
arrangement 
zone
implemented under
the supervision of the
relevant governorate
in 1 industrial zone
in each of Qena
Governorate and
Sohag Governorate
(3) DLI #3: Number of 
DLR #3.1: 
50,000,000 
DLR #3.1:
Cluster Competitiveness 
5 Cluster 
$40,000,000 of
Initiatives launched and 
Competitiveness 
which $4,000,000
implemented in each of 
Initiatives launched 
for each Cluster
Qena Governorate and 
in each of Qena 
Competitiveness
Sohag Governorate 
Governorate and 
Initiative
(Baseline: 0 for FY 15/16) 
Sohag Governorate
by FY 19/20
DLR #3.2: 
DLR #3.2:
$10,000,000 of
-12-
5 Cluster 
which $1,000,000
Competitiveness 
for each Cluster
Initiatives 
Competitiveness
implemented in each 
Initiative
of Qena Governorate
and Sohag
Govemorate
(4) DLI #4: Number of 
DLR #4.1: 6 district 
28,000,000 
DLR #4.1:
district service centers that 
service centers in 
$12,000,000 of
reduced by at least 25% 
Qena Govemorate 
which $2,000,000
their average processing 
for each district
times (in days) for issuing 
service center
operating licenses and
construction permits to
businesses calculated on 
DLR #4.2: 8 district 
DLR #4.2:
the basis of the 
service centers in 
$16,000,000 of
methodology set out in the 
Sohag Govemorate 
which $2,000,000
POM (Baselines: 0 for 
for each district
each of Qena Govemorate 
service center
and Sohag Govemorate)
(5) DLI #5: Minimum 
DLR #5.1 Each of 
270,000,000 
DLR #5.1:
Access Criteria met and 
Qena Governorate 
$30,000,000 of
minimum Performance 
and Sohag 
which
Target achieved for given 
Goverorate has met 
$12,000,000 for
Fiscal Year by each of 
the Minimum Access 
Qena Govemorate
Qena Govemorate and 
Criteria for FY 16/17 
and $18,000,000
Sohag Govemorate to 
for Sohag
receive infrastructure and 
Goverorate
services Performance
Grants
DLR #5.2.1: Each of 
DLR#5.2.1:
Qena Governorate 
$30,000,000 of
and Sohag 
which
Governorate has met 
$12,000,000 for
the Minimum Access 
Qena Govemorate
Criteria for FY 17/18 
and $18,000,000
for Sohag
Goveeorate
DLR #5.2.2: Pilot 
DLR #5.2.2:
assessment of 
$30,000,000 of
Performance Target 
which
for FYI17/18 carried 
$12,000,000 for
out in each of Qena 
Qena Govemorate
Govemnorate and 
and $18,000,000
Sohag Governorate 
for Sohag
Govemorate
-13-
DLR #5.3.1: Each of 
DLR #5.3.1:
Qena Governorate 
$30,000,000 of
and Sohag 
which
Governorate has met 
$12,000,000 for
the Minimum Access 
Qena Govemorate
Criteria for FY 18/19 
and $18,000,000
for Sohag
Govemorate
DLR #5.3.2: Each of 
DLR #5.3.2:
Qena Govemorate 
$30,000,000 of
and Sohag 
which
Govemorate has 
$12,000,000 for
achieved a 
Qena Governorate
Performance Target 
and $18,000,000
of at least 60% for 
for Sohag
FY 18/19 
Govemorate
DLR #5.4.1: Each of 
DLR #5.4.1:
Qena Govemorate 
$30,000,000 of
and Sohag 
which
Govemorate has met 
$12,000,000 for
the Minimum Access 
Qena Govemorate
Criteria for FY 19/20 
and $18,000,000
for Sohag
Govemorate
DLR #5.4.2: Each of 
DLR #5.4.2:
Qena Governorate 
$30,000,000 of
and Sohag 
which
Govemorate has 
$12,000,000 for
achieved a 
Qena Governorate
Performance Target 
and $18,000,000
of at least 70% for 
for Sohag
FY 19/20 
Governorate
DLR #5.5.1: Each of 
DLR #5.5.1:
Qena Govemorate 
$30,000,000 of
and Sohag 
which
Govemorate has met 
$12,000,000 for
the Minimum Access 
Qena Govemorate
Criteria for FY 20/21 
and $18,000,000
for Sohag
Govemorate
DLR #5.5.2: Each of 
DLR #5.5.2:
Qena Governorate 
$30,000,000 of
and Sohag 
which
Govemorate has
-14-
achieved a 
$12,000,000 for
Performance Target 
Qena Governorate
of at least 80% for 
and $18,000,000
FY 20/21 
for Sohag
Govemorate
(6) DLI #6: Cumulative 
DLR #6: 
60,000,000 
DLR #6:
value (EGP) of 
EGP 1,050,000,000 
For each of Qena
infrastructure and services 
equivalent for each 
Govemorate and
investment expenditures 
of Qena Goverorate 
Sohag
paid by each of Qena 
and Sohag 
Governorate:
Governorate and Sohag 
Governorate
Govemorate under the 
$2.857 for each
Program that has been 
new EGP 100
subject to technical audit 
equivalent paid for
carried out under Part B.2 
infrastructure and
of the Program and 
services
certified acceptable by 
expenditures
technical auditor 
covered by a
(Baseline: 0 for FY 15/16) 
technical audit and
certified acceptable
by technical auditor
(7) Front-end Fee to be 
1,250,000
paid pursuant to Section
2.03 of this Agreement in
accordance with Section
2.05 (b) of the General
Conditions 
(renumbered
as 
such 
pursuant 
to
paragraphs 
3 and 5 of
Section 1F of the Appendix
to 
this Agreement 
and
relating 
to 
Capitalizing
Front-end 
Fee 
and
Interest) 
__________
(8) Interest Rate Cap or 
0
Interest 
Rate 
Collar
premium 
to 
be 
paid
pursuant to Section 2.08(c)
of this 
Agreement 
in
accordance with Section
4.05 
of 
the 
General
Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
$500,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
I. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:
-15-
(a) 
for purposes of Section 2.03 of the General Conditions (renumbered as such
pursuant to paragraph 6 of Section II of the Appendix to this Agreement and
relating to Program Expenditures), for DLRs achieved prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
US$125,000,000 may be made for such DLRs achieved prior to this date but on or
after January 14, 2016; and
(b) 
for any DLR under Category (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) or (6), until and unless the
Borrower has furnished all required verification documents and information
acceptable to the Bank within sixty (60) days from the date said DLR was
achieved, or such later date as may be established by the Bank, showing that said
DLR has been achieved. Such verification documents and information shall
include verification reports from the Independent Verification Agent, based on
reports prepared by the Borrower certifying the achievements of the DLRs in
accordance with procedures and arrangements, and verification protocols
acceptable to the Bank.
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.l (b) of this Section, the Borrower may withdraw
an amount not to exceed US$125,000,000 as an advance; provided, however, that if the
DLRs in the opinion of the Bank are not achieved (or only partially achieved) by the
Closing Date, the Borrower shall refund such advance (or portion of such advance as
determined by the Bank in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Part B) to
the Bank promptly upon notice thereof by the Bank. Except as otherwise agreed with the
Borrower, the Bank shall cancel the amount so refunded. 
Any further withdrawals
requested as an advance under any Category shall be permitted only on such terms and
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B. 1(b) of this Section, if any of the DLRs under
Category (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) or (6) has not been achieved by the date by which the said
DLR is set to be achieved, the Bank may, after consulting with the Borrower: (a) authorize
the withdrawal of such lesser amount of the unwithdrawn proceeds of the Loan then
allocated to said Category which, in the opinion of the Bank, corresponds to the extent of
achievement of said DLR, said lesser amount to be calculated in accordance with the
Disbursement Calculation Formula set out in the fourth column of the table in paragraph 2
of Section IV.A of this Schedule; (b) reallocate all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan
then allocated to said DLR to any other DLR; and/or (c) cancel all or a portion of the
proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said DLR.
4. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2021.
5. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section IV, if at any time after the Closing
Date the Borrower has failed to provide evidence acceptable to the Bank that the
Withdrawn Loan Balance does not exceed the total amount of Program Expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such excess
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance. The Bank shall cancel the refunded amount of the
Withdrawn Loan Balance.
-16-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying:
(a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment
Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary,
to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each July 15 and January 15
Beginning July 15, 2021 
1.67%
through July 15, 2050
On January 15, 2051 
1.47%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as
of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding
on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall
be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
-17-
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (a) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating
to the Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-18-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Annual Performance Assessment" means the assessment referred to in paragraph 4 (b) of
Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, to be carried out by the PCO for each Fiscal
Year for each Select Governorate, in accordance with principles, methodology and
arrangements as set out in the Program Operational Manual.
2. 
"Annual Program Investment Plan" means the annual plan to be prepared by each Select
Governorate for each Fiscal Year during the implementation of the Program, which sets
out for each said year the infrastructure and services investments to be carried out in the
Select Governorate in said year as selected in accordance with principles, methodology and
arrangements set out in the Performance Grant Manual, in order to meet the objectives of
the Program.
3. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the Bank's "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating 
Fraud 
and 
Corruption 
in 
Program-for-Results 
Financing," 
dated
February 1, 2012, and revised July 10, 2015.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
5. 
"Competitiveness 
Implementation 
Manual" 
means the manual 
for the Cluster
Competitiveness Initiatives and Industrial Zone Modernization Plans, acceptable to the
Bank, to be adopted by the Borrower as part of the POM pursuant to the provisions of
paragraph 3 of Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, setting forth the detailed
policies and procedures for said initiatives and plans.
6. 
"Cluster Competitiveness Initiative" means a Select Governorate's set of coordinated
public and private investment measures and actions supported by value chain and market
analysis referred to in Part A.2 of the Program.
7. 
"Economic Council" means an economic council referred to in paragraph 2 (d) (i) of
Section I.C. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; "Economic Councils" means more than one
such Economic Council.
8. 
"Disbursement Linked Indicator" or "DLI" means, in respect of a given Category, the
indicator related to said Category as set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
9. 
"Disbursement Linked Result" or "DLR" means, in respect of a given Category, the result
under said Category as set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, on the basis of the achievement of which, the amount of the Loan allocated to
said result may be withdrawn in accordance with the provisions of said Section IV.
10. 
"Egyptian Pound" or "EGP" means the lawful currency of the Borrower.
-19-
11. 
"Fiscal Year" or "FY" means the fiscal year of the Borrower beginning July 1 of a calendar
year and ending on June 30 of the following calendar year.
12. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
13. 
"Inclusive Economic Development Program for Lagging Regions" means the Borrower's
program for inclusive economic development in lagging regions, referred to in the letter
dated May 22, 2016, from the Borrower to the Bank indicating the said program's period
of implementation.
14. 
"Independent Verification Agent" means an independent entity to be engaged by the
Borrower, through the PCO, for the purpose of certifying the achievement of the DLRs, as
referred to in paragraph 5 of Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
15. 
"Industrial Zone Modernization Plan" means a Select Governorate's plan referred to in Part
A.3 of the Program, consisting of an industrial zone management framework and a plan for
infrastructure and services upgrading and maintenance, to be implemented in industrial
zones located in said governorate.
16. 
"Local Implementation Unit" or "LIU" means a local implementation unit referred to in
paragraph 2 (c) of Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and "Local Implementation
Units" or "LUs" means more than one such LIU.
17. 
"Minimum Access Criteria" means the eligibility criteria, as set out in the Performance
Grant Manual, to be met by each Select Governorate in a given Fiscal Year in order to
access the Performance Grant for said Fiscal Year, and to be evaluated through an Annual
Performance Assessment.
18. 
"Ministry of Trade and Industry" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for trade and
industry, or any successor thereto.
19. 
"Occupancy Rate" means the percentage of land area in industrial zones in a Select
Governorate allocated to businesses relative to the total land area available for allocation
to businesses in industrial zones in said Select Governorate.
20. 
"One Stop Shop" means a one stop shop of the Borrower designed to provide registration,
company incorporation, and post-registration support services to businesses in the
Borrower's territory.
21. 
"Operational Manual" means the operational manual, acceptable to the Bank, to be adopted
by the Borrower as part of the POM pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3 of Section
I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, providing details of arrangements and procedures for
the implementation of the Program, including: (a) principles, methodology and
arrangements for the verification of the DLIs and DLRs; (b) procurement, financial
management and disbursement arrangements; (c) environmental and social safeguards
arrangements for the Program; (d) institutional administration, coordination and day-to-
day execution of Program activities; (e) monitoring, evaluation, reporting, and
-20-
communication arrangements of Program activities; and (f) such other administrative,
financial, technical and organizational arrangements and procedures as shall be required
for the Program.
22. 
"Performance Grants" means the annual fiscal transfers from the Borrower's budget into
the annual budgets of the Select Governorates, provided in addition to the regular annual
budget allocations of the Select Governorates, on the basis of meeting the Minimum Access
Criteria for a given Fiscal Year starting from FY 16/17 and achieving the minimum
Performance Target for a given Fiscal Year starting from FY 17/18, which the Select
Govemorates can utilize to undertake infrastructure and services investments identified in
the Annual Program Investment Plans, all in accordance with principles, methodology and
arrangements as set out in the Performance Grant Manual.
23. 
"Performance Grant Manual" means the manual for the Performance Grants, acceptable to
the Bank, to be adopted by the Borrower as part of the POM pursuant to the provisions of
paragraph 3 of Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, setting forth the detailed
policies and procedures for said grant, including a menu on investment and expenditure.
24. 
"Performance Target" means a numerical score of a Select Govemorate for a given Fiscal
Year, to be measured and evaluated through an Annual Performance Assessment, on the
basis of performance metrics for investment selection and implementation as set out in the
Performance Grant Manual.
25. 
"Program Coordination Office" or "PCO" means the coordination office referred to in
paragraph 2 (b) (i) of Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
26. 
"Program Action Plan" means the Borrower's plan dated August 1, 2016 and referred to in
paragraph I of Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as may be amended from time
to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
27. 
"Program Fiduciary, Environmental and Social Systems" means the Borrower's systems
for the Program referred to in Section L.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
28. 
"Program Operational Manual" or "POM" means the manual, acceptable to the Bank, to
be adopted by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3 of Section I.C of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
29. 
"Qena Govemorate" means the Borrower's govemorate of Qena within which the Program
is partly carried out, or any successor thereto.
30. 
"Select Governorates" means Qena Governorate and Sohag Govemorate collectively; and
"Select Governorate" means individually any one of said Select Govemorates as the
context may require.
31. 
"Sohag Govemorate" means the Borrower's governorate of Sohag within which the
Program is partly carried out, or any successor thereto.
32. 
"Steering Committee" means the steering committee referred to in paragraph 2 (a) (i) of
Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-21-
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
Wherever used throughout the General Conditions, the term "the Project" is modified to
read "the Program", the term "the Project Agreement" is modified to read "the Program
Agreement", the term "Project Implementing Entity" is modified to read "the Program
Implementing Entity", the term "Project Report" is modified to read "Program Report";
and the term "Eligible Expenditures" is modified to read "Program Expenditures".
2. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the amendments set forth below.
3. 
Section 2.02, Special Commitment by the Bank, is deleted in its entirety, and the subsequent
Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
4. 
In Section 2.02 (originally numbered as Section 2.03), the heading "Applications for
Withdrawal or for Special Commitment" is replaced with "Applications for Withdrawal",
and the phrase "or to request the Bank to enter into a Special Commitment" is deleted.
5. 
The section originally numbered as Section 2.04, Designated Accounts is deleted in its
entirety, and the subsequent Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
6. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (originally numbered as Section 2.05), Eligible Expenditures
(renamed "Program Expenditures" in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Section II), is
modified to read: "(a) the payment is for the financing of the reasonable cost of
expenditures required for the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
in accordance with the provisions of the Legal Agreements;".
7. 
The last sentence of Section 2.04 (originally numbered as Section 2.06), Financing Taxes,
is modified to read: "To that end, if the Bank at any time determines that the amount of any
such Tax is excessive, or that such Tax is discriminatory or otherwise unreasonable, the
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, exclude such amount or such Tax from the Program
Expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as required to ensure
consistency with such policy of the Bank."
8. 
Section 2.06 (originally numbered as Section 2.08), Reallocation, is modified to read:
"Notwithstanding any allocation of an amount of the Loan to a withdrawal category under
the Loan Agreement, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, reallocate any other amount
of the Loan to such category if the Bank reasonably determines at any time that such
reallocation is appropriate for the purposes of the Program.
9. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
-22-
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually
in arrears on each Payment Date."
10. 
Section 7.01, Cancellation by the Borrower, is modified to read: "The Borrower may, by
notice to the Bank, cancel any amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance."
11. 
Paragraph (d) of Section 7.03, Cancellation by the Bank, entitled "Misprocurement", is
deleted, and subsequent paragraphs are relettered accordingly.
12. 
Section 7.04, Amounts Subject to Special Commitment not Affected by Cancellation or
Suspension by the Bank, is deleted in its entirety, and subsequent Sections in Article VII
and references to such Sections are renumbered accordingly.
13. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all references to Section numbers and paragraphs are
modified, as necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above.
14. 
A new paragraph 19 is inserted with the following definition of "Commitment Charge",
and the remaining paragraphs are renumbered accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
15. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01
(a).
16. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition
of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower."
17. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and
Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
-23-
18. 
Renumbered paragraph 88 (originally paragraph 87) of the Appendix, setting forth the
definition of "Special Commitment" is deleted in its entirety, and all subsequent paragraphs
are renumbered accordingly.
