OFFICIAL
En)OUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8651-JO
CFF TF NUMBER TF03648-JO
Loan Agreement
(Economic Opportunities For Jordanians and Syrian Refugees Program)
between
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
Ocob C 
,2016
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8651-JO
CFF TF NUMBER TF03648-JO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
0( b 
e 
, 2016, between THE HASHEMITE
KINGDOM 
OF 
JORDAN 
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank").
WHEREAS, (A) following an international effort to provide development support to
countries most affected by refugees in the Middle East region; and having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Program aimed at providing economic opportunities to Jordanians
and Syrian refugees, as further described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, the Borrower has
requested the Bank to extend a loan to assist in the financing of the Program;
(B) funding from the Concessional Financing Facility was received by the Bank for
purposes of providing concessionality to this Agreement;
(C) under the terms of a Financial Procedures Arrangement with the Trustee of the
Concessional Financing Facility dated August 10, 2016, the Bank has agreed to provide additional
funds to the Borrower (the Concessional Portion of the Loan as hereinafter defined) as part of an
integrated lending operation under the terms of this Agreement; and
(D) the Borrower has also obtained from the Association, on an exceptional basis, a credit
in the amount of one hundred million Dollars (USD $100,000,000) ("Credit"), which Credit has
been contributed for the Program by the Association under the Financing Agreement (as hereinafter
defined);
NOW THEREFORE, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE I -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to extend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, a Loan in the amount of two hundred million United States Dollars
(USD $200,000,000) to assist in financing the program described in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement ("Program"), consisting of the following:
(a) 
a non-concessional portion of the Loan in an amount of one hundred forty-nine
million United States Dollars (USD $149,000,000), as such amount may be
converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with
the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Non-Concessional Portion of
the Loan"); and
-2-
(b) 
a concessional portion of the loan in an amount of fifty-one million United States
Dollars (USD $51,000,000) ("Concessional Portion of the Loan").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited
by the Bank into an account specified by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan.
2.04. 
(a) 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Balance of the Non-
Concessional Portion of the Loan.
(b) 
The Commitment Charge shall not be applied to the Concessional Portion of the
Loan.
2.05. 
(a) 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided,
that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Non-
Concessional Portion of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the
Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the
relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional
Portion of the Loan remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for
a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be
calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.
(b) 
The Concessional Portion of the Loan shall be made on a grant basis.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan shall be repaid in
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent
debt management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan, withdrawn or
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis
applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Non-
Concessional Portion of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate
to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a
Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable Spread to a Variable
Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or
(C) all of the principal amount of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the
-3-
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable
Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.09. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.08 of this Agreement
and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in accordance with the
provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis applicable to the aggregate
principal amount of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan withdrawn during each
Interest Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full
maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General
Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Program. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out the Program in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Program is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that any legislation,
license or other legal instrument related to the implementation of the Program has been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely
the achievement of the objective of the Program, or the ability of the Borrower to
implement the Program.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consist of the following, namely, that the event
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 60 days
after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
-4-
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following namely that, the
Financing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all conditions precedent to its
effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals under it (other than the
effectiveness of this Agreement) have been fulfilled.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister responsible for planning and international
cooperation.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
Post office Box 555
Amman, 11118
The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Facsimile:
+962-6-464 9341
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at 
a 
oN.C. 
, ( J 
S 
c 
Ame,,yc,, as of the day
and year first above written.
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM 
F J RDAN
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
000a 
^ Ur
Title: V' 
e
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
Cfrt ae,m
Title: 
\Jico 
y'SIL
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Description
The objective of the Program is to improve economic opportunities for Jordanians and
Syrian refugees in the Borrower's territory.
The Program is part of the Borrower's program, namely the Jordan Compact Program and
consists of the following activities:
Part A. Improving Labor Market
Carrying out a program of activities aimed at improving the access of Jordanians and Syrian
refugees to the labor market in Jordan through, inter alia: (1) implementing required reforms and
procedures for the issuance of work permits to Syrian refugees and legalizing their work; and
(2) disclosing reports on selected environmental and social conditions at the factory level.
Part B. Improving the Investment Climate
Carrying out reforms to improve the business environment in the Borrower's territory, through
inter alia: (1) institutionalizing business reforms; (2) creating systems to identify required reforms
and appropriate implementation tools; (3) ensuring the private sector involvement in dialogue and
processing of reforms; and (4) facilitating the establishment and functioning of SMEs and home-
based enterprises.
Part C. Improving Investment Promotion
Carrying out a program of activities aimed at encouraging investors to develop enterprises in the
Borrower's territory though, inter alia: (1) facilitating access to information and sites visits; and
(2) strengthening the investment promotion capacity of JIC.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Program Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arran2ements
A. 
Program Fiduciary, Environmental and Social Systems
Without limitation on the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the Borrower
shall carry out the Program, or cause the Program to be carried out, in accordance with
financial management, procurement and environmental and social management systems
acceptable to the Bank ("Program Fiduciary, Environmental and Social Systems") which
are designed to ensure that:
1. 
the Loan proceeds are used for their intended purposes, with due attention to the principles
of economy, efficiency, effectiveness, transparency, and accountability; and
2. 
the actual and potential adverse environmental and social impacts of the Program are
identified, avoided, minimized, or mitigated, as the case may be, all through an informed
decision-making process.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section I, the Borrower shall carry
out the Program, or cause the Program to be carried out, in accordance with the provisions
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Other Program Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
1 .
Program Institutions
Without limitation on the generality of Part A of this Section I, the Borrower shall maintain
at all times during Program implementation, with terms of reference, mandate, composition
and resources satisfactory to the Bank, the Program Management Unit to be responsible
for: (i) the overall management, coordination, reporting, monitoring, and evaluation of
Program implementation; (ii) hiring and interfacing with independent verification
agencies; (iii) carrying out the technical audits; and (iv) facilitating financial audits for the
Program, all in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the Program
Operational Manual.
2. 
Program Operational Manual
(a) 
The Borrower shall, not later than four (4) months after the Effective Date, prepare
an operational manual for the Program, in form and substance acceptable to the
Bank, containing detailed: (i) administrative, procurement, financial management,
and monitoring and evaluation procedures; (ii) environmental and social
management 
systems and complaints 
and grievance redress mechanism;
(iii) Program Action Plan; (iv) arrangements for verification of achievement of the
DLRs (including the Verification Protocol); (v) process and procedures for
-8-
determining Syrian refugees' 
status; and (vi) coordination and oversight
arrangements for the Program.
(b) 
The Borrower shall: (i) furnish said manual to the Bank for its review; (ii) afford
the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower on said
manual; and (iii) thereafter adopt such Program operational manual as shall have
been approved by the Bank ("Program Operational Manual").
(c) 
The Borrower: (i) shall ensure that the Program is carried out in accordance with
the Program Operational Manual; and (ii) shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or
waive, or permit to be assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived, any of its
provisions without the prior written agreement of the Bank.
3. 
Additional Program Implementation Arrangements
Without limitation on the generality of Part A of this Section I, the Borrower shall carry
out the Program Action Plan, or cause the Program Action Plan to be carried out, in
accordance with the schedule set out in the said Program Action Plan in a manner
acceptable to the Bank. Except as the Bank may agree after consultation with the Borrower,
the Borrower shall ensure that the Program Action Plan is not amended, waived,
suspended, terminated or abrogated.
Section H. 
Excluded Activities
The Borrower shall ensure that the Program excludes any activities which:
A. 
in the opinion of the Bank, are likely to have significant adverse impacts that are sensitive,
diverse, or unprecedented on the environment and/or affected people; or
B. 
involve the procurement of: (1) works, estimated to cost $1,000,000 equivalent or more
per contract; (2) goods, estimated to cost $1,000,000 equivalent or more per contract;
(3) non-consulting services, estimated to cost $1,000,000 equivalent or more per contract;
or (4) consulting services, estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent or more per contract.
Section III. 
Pro2ram Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation; Audits
A. 
Program Reports
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Program and prepare Program
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions. Each
Program Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to
the Bank not later than one month after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Program Financial Audits
1 .
Without limitation on the generality of Section L.A of this Schedule 2 and Section 5.09 of
the General Conditions, the Borrower shall have the Financial Statements audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Unless
otherwise agreed with the Bank, each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the
-9-
period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such
period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such
period.
2. 
The Borrower shall, not later than six (6) months after the Effective Date, hire and
thereafter maintain at all times during Program implementation, external auditors whose
qualifications, experience, and terms of reference shall be acceptable to the Bank.
C. 
Verification Protocol
1. 
The Borrower shall: (a) not later than 3 months after the Effective Date, recruit independent
verification agencies under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank to be responsible
for preparing and providing verifications reports certifying the achievement of DLR (3)
which is set forth in Section IV.A.2 of this Schedule; (b) ensure that the Audit Bureau
prepares and provides verifications reports certifying the achievement of DLRs (1), (2), (4)
and (5), which are set forth in Section IV.A.2 of this Schedule; (c) ensure that the PMU
prepares the consolidated implementation report after the verification of compliance of said
DLRs; and (d) furnish a report on the results of said verification of compliance process of
such scope and in such details as the Bank shall request.
2. 
Said verification reports shall be based on on-desk review of the documentation available
and on-site verification in a representative sample of areas targeted by the Program.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the
Bank may specify from time to time by notice to the Borrower to: (a) pay the Front-end
Fee; and (b) finance the results ("Disbursement Linked Results" or "DLRs") achieved by
the Borrower, as measured against specific indicators ("Disbursement Linked Indicators"
or "DLIs"); all as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 of this Part A.
2. 
The following table specifies each category of withdrawal of the proceeds of the Loan
(including the Disbursement Linked Indicators as applicable) ("Category"), the
Disbursement Linked Results for each Category (as applicable), and the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category:
-10-
Category 
Disbursement Linked 
Amount of 
Amount of 
Disbursement Calculation
(including 
Result (as applicable) 
the Non- 
the 
Formula
Disbursement 
Concessional 
Concessional
Linked Indicator 
Portion of 
Portion of 
(Amounts Allocated
as applicable) 
the Loan 
the Loan 
proportionally between the
Allocated 
Allocated 
Loan and the Credit)
(expressed 
(expressed in
in USD) 
USD)
(1) DLI #1: 
DLR#1.1: 
20,000 
issued 
9,933,333 
3,400,000 
DLR#1.1: 
US$1000 
for
number of work 
between April 8, 2016 and 
each WP issued between
permits (WP) 
October 31, 2016. 
April 8, 2016 and October
issued to Syrians 
31, 2016, up to a maximum
refugees. 
of US$20,000,000.
DLR#1.2: 
5,000 
by 
17,383,333 
5,950,000 
DLR#1.2: 
US$7000 
for
December 31, 2016. 
each additional WP issued
before December 31, 2016,
incremental to the 20,000
provided 
for 
under
DLR#1.1, up to a maximum
of US$35,000,000.
DLR#1.3: 55,000 in CY17. 
12,416,667 
4,250,000 
DLR# 1.3: US$455 for each
additional WP issued each
CY, up to a maximum of
US$25,000,000.
DLR#1.4: 90,000 CY18. 
12,416,667 
4,250,000 
DLR# 1.4: US$278 for each
additional WP issued in
CY18, up to a maximum of
US $25,000,000.
DLR#1.5: 130,000 in CYl9. 
12,416,667 
4,250,000 
DLR# 1.5: US$193 for each
additional WP issued in
CY19, up to a maximum of
US $25,000,000.
(2) DLI #2: annual 
DLR#2.1 to DLR#2.4: Better 
2,483,333 
850,000 
US$5,000,000 per CY, from
public disclosure 
Work Jordan report 
CY17 to CY20.
by Better Work 
published every CY. 
2,483,333 
850,000
Jordan of report
on factory level 
2,483,333 
850,000
compliance with a
list of at least 29 
2,483,333 
850,000
-11-
social and
environmental
related items.
(3) DLI #3: 
DLR#3.1: 
A 
reform 
7,450,000 
2,550,000 
DLR#3.1: 
US$15,000,000
Establishment and 
establishing a predictability 
by Closing Date.
implementation of 
process 
for 
issuance 
of
selected simplified 
business regulations has been
and predictable 
identified 
and 
adopted
regulations for the 
following an inclusive public-
private sector 
private 
dialogue 
and 
a
including 
measurement 
system
household 
(including 
baseline
businesses, 
identification) 
has 
been
prepared.
DLR#3.2: 
7,450,000 
2,550,000 
DLR#3.2: 
15,000,000 
by
One key business regulatory 
Closing Date.
reform has been identified
following an inclusive public-
private 
dialogue; 
and 
a
measurement 
system
covering the time, cost and
complexity of the compliance
process has been prepared
(including 
baseline
identification).
DLR#3.3: 
1000 
officially 
9,933,333 
3,400,000 
DLR#3.3: US$200,000 for
established 
household 
each additional 10
enterprises of which 100 are 
household enterprises
Syrian refugee owned and 
officially established of
100 female owned. 
which at least one owned by
a Syrian refugee household
and one owned by a female,
up to a maximum of
US$20,000,000 by Closing
Date.
DLR#3.4: 70% of business 
4,966,667 
1,700,000 
DLR#3.4: 
US$10,000,000
regulations mandatory to the 
by Closing Date.
private 
sector 
have 
been
issued 
following 
the
predictability 
process
adopted under DLR#3. 1.
DLR#3.5: Regulatory burden 
4,966,667 
1,700,000 
DLR#3.5: 
US$10,000,000
on businesses has decreased 
by Closing Date.
by 30% following
implemntationof business
-12-
regulatory reform adopted
under DLR#3.2.
(4) 
DLI 
#4: 
DLR#4.1: 
300 
enterprises 
9,933,333 
3,400,000 
DLR#4. 1: US$66,667 per
Increase in number newly added to the Custom 
additional enterprise added
of enterprises on Golden List by Closing Date. 
to the Custom Golden List,
the 
Custom 
up to a maximum of
Golden List. 
US$20,000,000 by Closing
Date.
(5) DLI #5: 
DLR#5.1: 
Removing 
the 
7,172,488 
2,455,012 
DLR#5.1: US$15,000,000.
Number of 
minimum capital requirement
investments 
for foreign investments.
benefiting from
investment 
DLR#5.2: 530 investments 
22,350,000 
7,650,000 
DLR#5.2: US$84,906 per
facilitation by JIC. 
benefiting from investment 
additional facilitated
facilitation by JIC. 
investment, up to a
maximum of US$45,000,000
by Closing Date.
(6) Front-end Fee 
[column to be left blank] 
277,512 
94,988
to be paid
pursuant to
Section 2.03 of
this Agreement in
accordance with
Section 2.05 (b) of
the General
Conditions
(renumbered as
such pursuant to
paragraphs 3 and
5 of Section II of
the Appendix to
this Agreement
and relating to
Capitalizing
Front-end Fee and
Interest.
TOTAL 
$149,000,000 
$51,000,000
AMOUNT
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
from the Loan Account unless each withdrawal is made on a pari passu basis and
at a 74.50%: 25.50% ratio between the amount of the Non-Concessional Portion
of the Loan allocated and the amount of the Concessional Portion of the Loan
allocated;
-13-
(b) 
for purposes of Section 2.03 of the General Conditions (renumbered as such
pursuant to paragraph 6 of Section II of the Appendix to this Agreement and
relating to Program Expenditures, for DLRs (DLR#1.1 and DLR#5.1) achieved
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed $ 22,350,000 from the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan
and $7,650,000 from the Concessional Portion of the Loan, respectively may be
made for such DLRs achieved prior to this date but on or after April 8, 2016; and
(c) 
for any DLR under Category (1) through category (5) (except DRL#1.1 and
DLR#5.1) until and unless the Borrower has furnished evidence satisfactory to the
Bank that said DLR has been achieved.
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B. 1(b) of this Section, the Borrower may withdraw:
(i) an amount not to exceed $37,250,000 from the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan,
and (ii) $12,750,000 from the Concessional Portion of the Loan, respectively as an
advance; provided, however, that if the DLRs in the opinion of the Bank, are not achieved
(or only partially achieved) by the Closing Date, the Borrower shall refund such advance
(or portion of such advance as determined by the Bank in accordance with the provisions
of paragraph (3) of this Part B) to the Bank promptly upon notice thereof by the Bank.
Except as otherwise agreed with the Borrower, the Bank shall cancel the amount so
refunded. Any further withdrawals requested as an advance under any Category shall be
permitted only on such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B. 1(c) of this Section, if the DLRs under Category
(1); (4); or DLRs# 3.4 under Category (3); or DLR #5.2 under Category (5) have not been
achieved, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower:
(a) 
authorize: (i) the withdrawal of such lesser amount of the unwithdrawn proceeds
of the Loan then allocated to said Category which, in the opinion of the Bank,
corresponds to the extent of achievement of said DLR, said lesser amount to be
calculated in accordance with the Disbursement Calculation Formula set out in the
fifth column of the table in Section IV.A.2 of this Schedule; and (ii) the
disbursement of previously undisbursed amounts allocated to the respective DLR,
if and when the Bank shall be satisfied, on the basis of evidence satisfactory, that
a partially achieved DLR for which a lesser amount has been disbursed pursuant
to subparagraph (i) above has been fully achieved;
(b) 
reallocate all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said DLR
to any other DLR; and/or
(c) 
cancel all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said DLR.
4. 
The Closing Date is January 31, 2021.
5. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section IV, if at any time after the Closing
Date the Borrower has failed to provide evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the
Withdrawn Loan Balance does not exceed the total amount of Program Expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such excess
-14-
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance. The Bank shall cancel the refunded amount of the
Withdrawn Loan Balance.
-15-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Non-Concessional
Portion of the Loan and the percentage of the total principal amount of the Non-
Concessional Portion of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date ("Installment
Share"). If the proceeds of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Non-
Concessional Portion of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment
Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) the Withdrawn Balance of the
Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the
Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted,
as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which
a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning November 15, 2021 
1.67%
Through November 15, 2050
On May 15, 2051 
1.47%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn
as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Non-Concessional
Portion of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan have
been withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay
the Withdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan as of such
date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan withdrawn within two
calendar months prior to any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely
of calculating the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be
treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment
-16-
Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional
Portion of the Loan to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved
Currency that is repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (a) the exchange rate that
reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the
Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so determines
in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen
Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan is denominated in
more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the
amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization
schedule for each such amount.
-17-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the Bank's "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Program-for-Results Financing," dated February 1,
2012, and revised July 10, 2015.
2. 
"Audit Bureau" means the Borrower's national audit agency established pursuant to Law
no. 28 of 1952, as the same may be amended from time to time.
3. 
"Better Work Jordan" means the Borrower's national program in partnership with
international organizations aimed at, inter alia, improving labor standards in selected
private sector areas.
4. 
"CY" means the Borrower's calendar year.
5. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
6. 
"Concessional Financing Facility" and "CFF" each means the financing facility established
with a focus on providing concessional financing to middle income countries most affected
by the presence of large numbers of refugees, with an initial focus on the Syrian refugee
crisis as it impacts Jordan and Lebanon, and referred to in the Preamble to this Agreement.
7. 
"Concessional Portion of the Loan" means the amount of the Loan referred to in Section
2.01(b) of this Agreement; which has been contributed for the Program from the CFF on
grant basis.
8. 
"Credit" means the credit provided for in the Financing Agreement (as hereinafter defined),
which has been contributed for the Program by the Association.
9. 
"Custom Golden List" means the Borrower's list of entities approved for fast-track customs
clearance.
10. 
"Disbursement Linked Indicator" or "DLI" means in respect of a given Category, the
indicator related to said Category as set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2
to this Agreement, and "DLIs" means more than one DLI.
11. 
"Disbursement Linked Result" or "DLR" means in respect of a given Category, the result
under said Category as set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, on the basis of the achievement of which, the amount of the Loan allocated to
said result may be withdrawn in accordance with the provisions of said Section IV, and
DLRs means more than one DLR.
12. 
"Financing Agreement" means the agreement between the Borrower and the Association
for the Program, of the same date as this Agreement, as such Financing Agreement may be
amended from time to time. "Financing Agreement" includes all appendices, schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Financing Agreement.
-18-
13. 
"Financial Procedure Arrangement" means the arrangement between the Bank and the CFF
referred to in the Preamble to this Agreement.
14. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
15. 
"Jordan Compact Program" means the Borrower's program agreed upon with the
international community to address the impact of the Syrian refugee crisis on Jordan and
adopted on February 4, 2016 in London.
16. 
"Jordan Investment Commission" and "JIC" each means the Borrower's commission
established by Law no.30 of 2014 and responsible for promoting and support investments
in Jordan, as the same may be amended from time to time.
17. 
"Loan" means the aggregate of the Concessional Portion of the Loan and the Non-
Concessional Portion of the Loan as set forth in Section 2.01 of this Agreement.
18. 
"Program Action Plan" means the Borrower's plan dated September 7, 2016 and referred
to in Section I.C.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as may be amended from time to time
with the written agreement of the Bank.
19. 
"Program Fiduciary, Environmental and Social Systems" means the Borrower's systems
for the Program referred to in Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
20. 
"Program Management Unit" and "PMU" each means the unit responsible for Program
implementation and referred to in Section I.C.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
21. 
"Program Operational Manual" means the manual referred in Section II.C.2.(b) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
22. 
"SME" means small and medium enterprise; and "SMEs" means more than one SME.
23. 
"Verification Protocol" means the protocol for DLIs and DLRs verification referred to in
Section III.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
Wherever used throughout the General Conditions, the term "the Project" is modified to
read "the Program", the term "the Project Agreement" is modified to read "the Program
Agreement", the term "Project Implementing Entity" is modified to read "the Program
Implementing Entity", the term "Project Report" is modified to read "Program Report";
the term "Eligible Expenditures" is modified to read "Program Expenditures" and the term
"Loan Payment" is modified to read "Payment of the Non-Concessional Portion of the
Loan". Furthermore, wherever used in Sections 3.02 to 3.08; Section 3.10; Section 4.01;
Section 4.02 to 4.05 (including the Title); and Section 9.05, the term "the Loan" is modified
-19-
to read "the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan"; the term "Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance" is modified to read "Unwithdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of
the Loan"; and the term "Withdrawn Loan Balance" is modified to read "Withdrawn
Balance ofthe Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan".
2. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the amendments set forth below.
3. 
Section 2.02, Special Commitment by the Bank, is deleted in its entirety, and the subsequent
Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
4. 
In Section 2.02 (originally numbered as Section 2.03), the heading "Applications for
Withdrawal or for Special Commitment" is replaced with "Applications for Withdrawal",
and the phrase "or to request the Bank to enter into a Special Commitment" is deleted.
5. 
The section originally numbered as Section 2.04, Designated Accounts is deleted in its
entirety, and the subsequent Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
6. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (originally numbered as Section 2.05), Eligible Expenditures
(renamed "Program Expenditures" in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Section II), is
modified to read: "(a) the payment is for the financing of the reasonable cost of
expenditures required for the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
in accordance with the provisions of the Legal Agreements".
7. 
The last sentence of Section 2.04 (originally numbered as Section 2.06), Financing Taxes,
is modified to read: "To that end, if the Bank at any time determines that the amount of any
such Tax is excessive, or that such Tax is discriminatory or otherwise unreasonable, the
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, exclude such amount or such Tax from the Program
Expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as required to ensure
consistency with such policy of the Bank."
8. 
In Section 2.05 (originally numbered as Section 2.07), Refinancing Preparation Advance;
Capitalizing Front End Fee and Interest, the term "the Loan" in paragraph (a) and the term
"the Loan" after "other charges on" in paragraph (c) , is deleted and replaced with "the
Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan".
9. 
Section 2.06 (originally numbered as Section 2.08), Reallocation, is modified to read:
"Notwithstanding any allocation of an amount of the Loan to a withdrawal category under
the Loan Agreement, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, reallocate any other amount
of the Loan to such category if the Bank reasonably determines at any time that such
reallocation is appropriate for the purposes of the Program.
10. 
Section 3.01. (Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Non-Concessional Portion
of the Loan at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
-20-
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn
Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan at the rate specified in the Loan
Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a
date sixty days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which
amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date."
11. 
Section 7.01, Cancellation by the Borrower, is modified to read: "The Borrower may, by
notice to the Bank, cancel any amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance."
12. 
Paragraph (d) of Section 7.03, Cancellation by the Bank, entitled "Misprocurement", is
deleted, and subsequent paragraphs are relettered accordingly.
13. 
Section 7.04, Amounts Subject to Special Commitment not Affected by Cancellation or
Suspension by the Bank, is deleted in its entirety, and subsequent Sections in Article VII
and references to such Sections are renumbered accordingly.
14. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all references to Section numbers and paragraphs are
modified, as necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above.
15. 
Wherever used in the following definitions of -the terms "Conversion"; "Currency
Conversion"; "Default Interest Period"; "Default Interest Rate"; "Default Variable Rate";
"Fixed Rate"; "Fixed Reference Rate"; "Fixed Spread"; "Interest Rate Cap"; "Interest Rate
Conversion"; "Principal Payment Date"; "Reference Rate Reset Date"; "Screen Rate";
"Variable Rate"; "Variable Spread"; "Variable Spread Fixing Charge"; the term "the Loan"
is modified to read "the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan"; the term "Unwithdrawn
Loan Balance" is modified to read "the Unwithdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional
Portion of the Loan"; and the term "Withdrawn Loan Balance" is modified to read
"Withdrawn Balance ofthe Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan".
16. 
A new paragraph 19 is inserted with the following definition of "Commitment Charge",
and the remaining paragraphs are renumbered accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.0 1(b)."
17. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01
(a).
18. 
A new paragraph 73 is inserted with the following definition of "Non-Concessional Portion
of the Loan Payment", and the remaining paragraphs are renumbered accordingly:
"73. 
"Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan" means portion of the Loan provided to
the Borrower on non-concessional terms in the Loan Agreement."
19. 
In the renumbered paragraph 74 (originally paragraph 72), the definition of "Payment
Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and Commitment
-21-
Charge are" after the word "interest".
20. 
Renumbered paragraph 89 (originally paragraph 87), setting forth the definition of "Special
Commitment" is deleted in its entirety, and all subsequent paragraphs are renumbered
accordingly.
21. 
In the renumbered paragraph 94 (originally paragraph 92), the definition of"Unwithdrawn
Loan Balance" is modified to read as follows:
"95. 
"Unwithdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan" means the
amount of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan remaining unwithdrawn from the
Loan Account from time to time."
22. 
In the renumbered paragraph 98 (originally paragraph 96), the definition of "Withdrawn
Loan Balance" is modified to read as follows:
"96. 
"Withdrawn Loan Balance" means the amounts of the: (i) Non-Concessional
Portion of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account and outstanding from time to time;
plus (ii) Concessional Portion of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account from time to
time."
23. 
A new paragraph 99 is inserted with the following definition of "Withdrawn Balance of
the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan", and the remaining paragraphs are renumbered
accordingly:
"99. 
"Withdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan" means the
amounts of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account
and outstanding from time to time."
