DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8582-GA
Loan Agreement
(Skills Development and Employability Project)
between
GABONESE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
a; 
13 
,2016
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8582-GA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
&r;t 
13 
2016, between GABONESE REPUBLIC
("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE H -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of ninety-four million six hundred
thousand Euros (EUR 94,600,000) ("Loan"), as such amount may be converted
from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the
provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the
project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided,
that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the
General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the Borrower
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General
Conditions.
-2-
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May15 and November 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion," as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
2.09. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate
basis applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during
each Interest Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed
Rate for the full maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the MFPIJ in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
-3-
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that the
enabling legislation of the National Office for Employment has been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely
its ability to perform any of its obligations under the Project.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that
the Borrower has recruited to the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) the staff
referred to in Section I.A.2.(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
5.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the
event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the
Borrower.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Minister in charge of Economy.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Sustainable Development, Economy,
Investment Promotion and Prospective
Boulevard Triomphal, BP 747
Libreville
Gabonese Republic
Facsimile:
(241) 01763-430
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
-4-
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at Washington D.C., United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
GABONESE REPUBLIC
By
Authorized Representative
Name:_______
Title:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
horized Representative
Name: 
, 
R 7/ 
/ 
A 
Vf
Title: C I/79 
'~'Z7T
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve the effectiveness of vocational training,
short-term skills development, and entrepreneurship programs in key growth sectors in the
Gabonese Republic.
The Project consists of the following parts:
PART A. 
Extension of Training Supply and Quality Improvement in TVET in
Key Growth Sectors
1 .
Supporting skills development and availability of training in the key growth sectors
through: (a) the construction of two TVET centers for the construction and public
works, and ICT sectors; (b) carrying out of dimensioning, feasibility and
architectural studies for the establishment and management of the TVET centers;
(c) carrying out of dual preparatory training for youth aspiring to work in the two
sectors and on-the-job/continuing training to employees in said sectors; and
(d) supporting the establishment of an independent management body for the
TVET Centers in partnership with the private sector.
2. 
Improving the quality of existing TVET Centers, through: (a) preparation of
related procedures manuals, guidelines for preparation of proposal and the
provision of Training; and (b) provision of Performance-Based Payments pursuant
to Performance-Based Contracts to selected TVET Centers aimed at improving
the quality of training and upgrading their facilities.
PART B. 
Employability 
Development, 
Youth 
Integration 
and
Entrepreneurship Promotion
1 .
Carrying out an Apprenticeship Program aimed at increasing professional
opportunities for youth with limited education, through apprenticeship and short-
term training and insertion programs, including provision of: (a) Apprenticeship
Payments to Apprenticeship Beneficiaries to cover basic fees; (b) mentoring and
coaching Training; and (c) toolkits and equipment necessary for apprenticeship.
2. 
Carrying out an Internship Program aimed at increasing job opportunities for
young graduates, including: (a) the provision of Internship Payments for Internship
Beneficiaries graduates to improve the transition from high education and TVET
to the labor market; and (b) monitoring and evaluation of the Internship Program.
3. 
Promoting youth employment through the development and implementation of
entrepreneurial initiatives, including: (a) preparation of entrepreneurship-training
modules; (b) organizing an information campaign to raise awareness and invite
-6-
proposals for new business ideas; (c) selection of most promising business
concepts; (d) support in the drafting of business plans and provision of required
Training in the areas of business planning and entrepreneurship; (e) provision of
Sub-Grants to selected Sub-Grant Beneficiaries as seed capital for specific
development projects; and (f) technical assistance and mentoring for the carrying
out of Sub-projects.
PART C. 
Institutional Capacity Support and Project Implementation
1 .
Support to the Borrower in the areas of Project coordination, supervision, financial
management, communication and outreach, impact evaluation and assessment,
procurement, supervision of implementation of the Safeguards Instruments,
including through the provision of Training, Operating Costs, goods and services
for the required purpose.
2. 
Carrying out external evaluation of Performance-Based Contracts.
3. 
Carrying out a program of activities aimed at enhancing institutional capacity,
including: (a) strengthening the institutional and operational capacity of the
Ministry of Vocational Training and Youth Integration, ministry in charge of
professional education, General Direction of Human Resources, and National
Observatory on Employment and Training; (b) supporting the implementation of
a new format of the FIR mechanism in the National Office for Employment; and
(c) supporting the design and implementation of the regulatory and operational
framework of an apprenticeship scheme.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
Steering Committee
The Borrower shall establish, not later than one (1) month after the Effective Date,
and thereafter maintain throughout the Project implementation period with
composition, mandate and resources satisfactory to the Bank, a steering committee
to be chaired by the Minister of MFPIJ or a designate, and comprised of
representatives of key ministries, agencies, the private sector, and the civil society
to be responsible for: (a) providing overall policy and strategic guidance to the
PCU; (b) reviewing and approving proposed Annual Work Plans and Budgets and
ensuring that agreed performance targets and timelines for proposed activities
under the Project are met; and (c) addressing critical challenges that could affect
the timely and efficient implementation of the Project ("Steering Committee").
2. 
Project Coordination Unit
In order to ensure proper and efficient implementation of the Project, the Borrower
shall maintain at all times during Project implementation, the PCU referred to in
Section 5.01 of this Agreement, within the MFPIJ, with a mandate, staffing and
other resources satisfactory to the Bank. To this end, the PCU shall: (a) be
comprised of qualified and competent staff in adequate numbers, as required for a
proper implementation of the Project; (b) employ and thereafter maintain at all
times during Project implementation, a project coordinator, finance management
specialist, procurement specialist, monitoring and evaluation specialist, an internal
auditor, and an accountant each of whose qualifications, experience and terms of
reference shall be acceptable to the Bank; (c) employ, not later than six (6) months
after the Effective Date and thereafter maintain at all times during Project
implementation, an environmental and social specialist whose qualifications,
experience and terms of reference shall be acceptable to the Bank; and (d) be
responsible for day-to-day Project coordination and implementation, including:
(i) carrying out Project financial management and procurement activities;
(ii) preparing Annual Work Plans and Budgets; (iii) ensuring compliance with
Safeguards Instruments; (iv) monitoring and evaluating Project activities and
preparing financial, monitoring and evaluation and progress reports; and (v) such
other functions as set forth or elaborated in the PM.
-8-
3. 
National Office for Employment (ONE)
In order to ensure proper and efficient implementation including, financial
management of Part B. 1 and B.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that, for
the duration of the Project or as otherwise agreed with the Bank, the National
Office for Employment, is maintained with mandate, adequate staffing, and
resources satisfactory to the Bank. To this end, the National Office for
Employment shall, not later than one (1) month after the Effective Date, employ
and thereafter maintain at all times during Project implementation, an accountant
whose qualifications, experience and terms of reference shall be acceptable to the
Bank.
4. 
ANPI
In order to ensure proper and efficient implementation of Part B.3 of the Project,
the Borrower shall maintain, throughout the implementation of the Project, the
ANPI with functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the Bank, to be
responsible for, inter alia, technical implementation of said Part B.3 of the Project,
as further described in the PM.
B. 
Procedures Manual
1 .
The Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank a procedures manual for the Project, containing
detailed: (a) implementation arrangements for the Project; (b) administrative;
(c) procurement; 
(d) environmental and social safeguards; (e) financial
management and accounting; (f) monitoring and evaluation procedures and
arrangements; (g) eligibility criteria, terms and conditions, and procedures for
preparation, approval and monitoring and evaluation, of Apprenticeship Payments,
Internship Payments; Sub-Grants and Performance Based Contracts; (h) grievance
mechanism for the Project; and (i) such technical, administrative, fiduciary or
coordination arrangements as may be necessary to ensure effective Project
implementation.
2. 
The Borrower shall: (a) furnish such manual to the Bank for review and approval;
(b) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower
on said manual; and (c) thereafter adopt said manual as shall have been approved
by the Bank ("Procedures Manual" and "PM").
3. 
The Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be assigned,
amended, abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned Procedures Manual, or any
provision thereof, without the prior written agreement of the Bank.
-9-
4. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of any inconsistency between the
provisions of Procedures Manual and those of this Agreement, the provisions of
this Agreement shall prevail.
C. 
Annual Work Plan and Budget
1. 
The Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank no later than November 30 of each calendar year
throughout the implementation of the Project, a work plan and budget of activities
proposed for inclusion in the Project for the next calendar year, together with a
budget for such activities and a timetable for their implementation.
2. 
The Borrower shall afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower on such proposed work plan and budget, and thereafter, carry
out such work plan during the period covered by said plan and according to such
budget, both as shall have been approved by the Bank ("Annual Work Plan and
Budget").
3. 
Only such activities included in the Annual Work Plan and Budget shall be eligible
for inclusion in the Project and for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.
4. 
The Borrower shall not amend or modify, or cause to be amended and modified,
any approved Annual Work Plan and Budget without the prior written approval of
the Bank.
D. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
E. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with all Safeguards
Instruments applicable to the Project including the ESMF and RPF.
2. 
To ensure compliance with the applicable Safeguards Instruments, the Borrower
shall take the following measures:
(a) 
if any activities included in a proposed Annual Work Plan and Budget
would, pursuant to the ESMF, require the carrying out of an ESIA, no such
activities shall be implemented unless:
(i) 
an ESIA for such activities has been: (A) prepared, in accordance
with the ESMF and furnished to the Bank as part of the Annual
-10-
Work Plan and Budget; (B) disclosed locally as required by the
ESMF; and (C) approved by the Bank and publicly disclosed; and
(ii) 
if said ESIA would require the preparation of an ESMP, such
ESMP has been: (A) prepared in accordance with such ESIA and
furnished to the Bank as part of the Annual Work Plan and
Budget; (B) disclosed locally as required by the ESMF; and
(C) approved by the Bank and publicly disclosed.
(b) 
If any activities included in a proposed Annual Work Plan and Budget
would, pursuant to the RPF, require the preparation of a RAP, no such
activities shall be implemented unless:
(i) 
a RAP for such activities has been: (A) prepared in accordance
with the requirements of the RPF and furnished to the Bank as part
of the proposed Annual Work Plan and Budget; (B) disclosed
locally as required by the RPF; and (C) approved by the Bank and
publicly disclosed; and
(ii) 
(A) all measures required to be taken under said RAP prior to the
initiation of said activities have been taken, including, without
limitation to the above, providing funds for resettlement
compensation when and if required under a RAP; (B) a report, in
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, on the status of
compliance with the requirements of said RAP has been prepared
and furnished to the Bank; and (C) the Bank has confirmed that
said activities may be commenced.
(c) 
The Borrower shall ensure that the applicable provisions of the ESIA,
ESMP, or RAP, as the case may be, are appropriately included in each
Sub-Grant Agreement or Performance-Based Contract, as the case may be,
and that they are implemented in the carrying out of all Sub-projects.
3. 
(a) 
Without limitation upon its other reporting obligations under this
Agreement, the Borrower shall regularly collect, compile and submit to
the Bank, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, bi-annual reports
on the status of compliance with the Safeguards Instruments, giving details
of: (i) measures taken in furtherance of such Safeguards Instruments;
(ii) conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the
smooth implementation of such Safeguard Instruments; and (iii) remedial
measures taken or required to be taken to address such conditions.
(b) 
The Borrower shall afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to review
and exchange views with the Borrower on the reports prepared under
paragraph (a) immediately above, and thereafter, shall carry out, or cause
-11-
to be carried out, with due diligence, all remedial measures agreed with
the Bank so as to ensure the proper implementation of the Project in
accordance with the Safeguards Instruments.
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that:
(a) 
no activities involving the use of land shall be carried out prior to the
screening of the legal status of the land in form and substance acceptable
to the Bank;
(b) 
no activities shall be carried out involving land, for which there is legal
uncertainty over ownership and use rights; and
(c) 
notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraphs 4 (a) and 4 (b) above, no
part of the Project funds shall be used to finance land acquisition.
5. 
The Borrower shall not amend, abrogate or waive, or permit to be amended,
abrogated or waived, the ESMF or RPF, or any provision thereof without the prior
written approval of the Bank.
6. 
In the event of a conflict between the provisions of any of the Safeguards
Instruments and the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement
shall prevail.
F. 
Performance-Based Contracts (PBCs)
1 .
In order to achieve the objectives of Part A.2(b) of the Project, the Borrower,
through the MFPIJ shall enter into Performance-Based Contracts with PBC
Beneficiaries and make Performance-Based Payments pursuant thereto, subject to
the provisions of this Section F and any other eligibility criteria and procedures
acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the PIM, which shall include the following:
(a) 
no PBC Beneficiary shall be eligible to enter into a PBC or receive a PBP
unless:
(i) 
the Borrower has determined, on the basis of an appraisal carried
out in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank and
further elaborated in the PM, that the PBC Beneficiary has
prepared and adopted, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank, a sector strategic development plan setting out the
objectives, long and medium term goals, and activities to be
implemented by the PBC Beneficiary; and
(ii) 
such PBC Beneficiary has established and undertaken to maintain
throughout the duration of its PBC, a management board, with
composition, mandate and resources satisfactory to the Bank, and
-12-
which shall be responsible for endorsing and overseeing the
implementation of such PBC Beneficiary's PBC; and
(b) 
the Borrower shall:
(i) 
by no later than six (6) months after the Effective Date, recruit
technical auditors with qualifications, experience and terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance with the
provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, to
conduct yearly external evaluations of the PBCs; and
(ii) 
establish the modalities, satisfactory to the Bank, for assessing and
verifying the implementation of each PBC, and thereafter assess
and verify the implementation of each such PBC in accordance
with such modalities and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower shall make each PBP to a PBC Beneficiary under a PBC with the
respective PBC Beneficiary on terms and conditions approved by the Bank, which
shall include, inter alia, the following:
(a) 
(i) the activities to be carried out, and objectives to be met, by the
PBC Beneficiary; (ii) the budget for such activities for the first
year of the PBC and corresponding funding commitment;
(iii) proposed activities for subsequent years and funding
projections for the activities; and (iv) performance targets and
indicators for monitoring such targets;
(b) 
the amount of, and payment arrangements for, the PBP;
(c) 
the conditioning of the PBP upon the PBC Beneficiary's
satisfactory implementation of its PBC and compliance with the
assessment and verification modalities referred to in Section
F.l(b) above;
(d) 
the PBP shall be made on a non-reimbursable grant basis, subject
to the provisions of paragraph (e) below; and
(e) 
the Borrower shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests
and those of the Bank, including the right to:
(i) 
suspend or terminate the right of the PBC Beneficiary to
use the proceeds of the PBP or obtain a refund of all or
any part of the amount of the PBP then withdrawn, upon
the PBC Beneficiary's failure to perform any of its
obligations under the PBC; and
-13-
(ii) 
require each PBC Beneficiary to:
(A) 
carry out its PBC with due diligence and
efficiency 
and in accordance with sound
technical, 
economic, 
financial, 
managerial,
environmental and social standards and practices
satisfactory to the Bank, including in accordance
with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines applicable to recipients of loan
proceeds other than the Borrower;
(B) 
provide, promptly as needed, the resources
required for the purpose;
(C) 
procure the goods, works and services to be
financed out of the PBC in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement;
(D) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to
enable it to monitor and evaluate in accordance
with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the
progress of the PBC and the achievement of its
objectives; (1) maintain a financial management
system and prepare financial statements in
accordance with consistently applied accounting
standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a
manner adequate to reflect the operations,
resources and expenditures related to the PBC;
and (2) at the Bank's or the Borrower's request,
have such financial statements audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in
accordance with consistently applied auditing
standards acceptable to the Bank, and promptly
furnish the statements as so audited to the
Borrower and the Bank; and permit the Bank to
make such statements as so audited available to
the public, along with the PBC;
(E) 
enable the Borrower and the Bank to inspect any
operations related to the PBC and any relevant
records and documents; and
(F) 
prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank
all such information as the Borrower or the Bank
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing.
-14-
3. 
Prior to entering into each PBC, the Borrower shall ensure that the Bank shall have
given its no objection to the entry into such PBC.
4. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each PBC
in such a manner as to protect its interest and those of the Bank and to accomplish
the purposes of the grant provided thereunder, and except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or
permit to be assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived, the PBC, or any provision
thereof.
G. 
Sub-Grants
1 .
The Borrower shall make Sub-Grants to Sub-Grant Beneficiaries for Sub-projects
in accordance with eligibility criteria and procedures set forth in the PM and
acceptable to the Bank, which shall include the following:
(a) 
No proposed Sub-project shall be eligible for financing under a Sub-Grant
to a Sub-Grant Beneficiary unless the Borrower shall have determined on
the basis of an appraisal carried out in accordance with guidelines
acceptable to the Bank and elaborated in the PM, that:
(i) 
the proposed Sub-project: 
(A) is designed to encourage
investments based on selected business plans; (B) is technically
feasible and economically and financially viable; and (C) if,
pursuant to the Safeguard Instruments, one or more ESMPs for the
Sub-project are required, such ESMPs have been prepared and
approved by the Bank in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph (c) of this Section I.G. 1 and all measures required to be
taken in accordance with Section I.E. of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement prior to commencement of the activities covered by
the ESMP have been taken; and
(ii) 
the proposed Beneficiary: (A) is a natural person with the
organization, management, technical capacity and financial
resources necessary to carry out the proposed Sub-project; and
(B) has prepared a satisfactory business plan, including financing
plan and budget, and a satisfactory implementation plan for the
proposed Sub-project.
(b) 
The maximum amount of a Sub-Grant for a Sub-project shall not exceed
US$10,000.
(c) 
Each Sub-Grant for a Sub-project requiring an ESMP shall be subject to
the Bank's prior written approval and shall only be eligible for financing
under the Loan if and to the extent approved by the Bank
-15-
2. 
The Borrower shall make each Sub-Grant under a Sub-Grant Agreement with the
respective Sub-Grant Beneficiary on terms and conditions approved by the Bank,
which shall include the following:
(a) 
The Sub-Grant shall be made on a non-reimbursable grant basis.
(b) 
The Borrower shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and those
of the Bank, including the right to:
(i) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to use the
proceeds of the Sub-Grant, or obtain a refund of all or any part of
the amount of the Sub-Grant then withdrawn, upon the
Beneficiary's failure to perform any of its obligations under the
Sub-Grant Agreement; and
(ii) 
require each Beneficiary to:
(A) 
carry out its Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with sound technical, economic,
financial, managerial, environmental and social standards
and practices satisfactory to the Bank, including in
accordance with the provisions of the Safeguard
Instruments (and any ESMP required for the Sub-project
pursuant to the Safeguard Instruments), and the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of loan
proceeds other than the Borrower;
(B) 
provide, promptly as needed, the resources required for
the purpose;
(C) 
procure the goods and services to be financed out of the
Sub-Grant in accordance with the provisions of Section
III of this Schedule;
(D) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate in accordance with indicators
acceptable to the Bank, the progress of the Sub-project
and the achievement of its objectives;
(E) 
(1) maintain a financial management system and prepare
financial statements in accordance with consistently
applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, both
in a manner adequate to reflect its operations, including
-16-
the operations, resources and expenditures related to the
Sub-project; and (2) at the Bank's or the Borrower's
request, have such financial statements audited by
independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank, 
in
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards
acceptable to the Bank, and promptly furnish the
statements as so audited to the Borrower and the Bank,
and permit the Bank to make such statements as so
audited available to the public, along with the Sub-Grant
Agreement;
(F) 
enable the Borrower and the Bank to inspect the Sub-
project, its operation and any relevant records and
documents; and
(G) 
prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such
information as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably
request relating to the foregoing.
3. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each Sub-
Grant Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and
the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Sub-
Grant Agreement or any of its provisions.
H. 
Internship Program and Apprenticeship Program
1 .
The Borrower, through the ONE, shall provide Apprenticeship Payments and
Internship Payments to selected Apprenticeship Beneficiaries and Internship
Beneficiaries, respectively to finance all or a portion of the costs of participation
in the Apprenticeship Program and Internship Program under Part B.l and B.2 of
the Project, respectively in a manner acceptable to the Bank, and in accordance
with the eligibility criteria and procedures and on terms and conditions as further
detailed in the PM.
2. 
The Borrower, through the ONE shall ensure that the Apprenticeship Payments
and Internship Payments are carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with sound technical, financial, and managerial standards and practices
acceptable to the Bank, including in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines applicable to the recipients of the Apprenticeship Payments
and Internship Payments proceeds other than the Borrower.
-17-
Section H. 
Project Monitoring! Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and
on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period
of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45)
days after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of
each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering
the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
4. 
The Borrower shall employ, not later than four (4) months after the Effective Date,
the external auditor referred to in Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions in
accordance with Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and pursuant to terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
5. 
The Borrower shall acquire and install, not later than three (3) months after the
Effective Date, and thereafter maintain, a computerized accounting system
acceptable to the Bank, for the Project.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
-18-
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1 .
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive
Bidding, subject to the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Section III.B;
(b) Shopping; (c) Limited International Bidding; (d) Direct Contracting; and
(e) Procurement from UN Agency.
3. 
Each bidding document and contract financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
provide that: (a) in accordance with paragraph 1.16 (e) of the Procurement
Guidelines, each bidding document and contract financed out of the proceeds of
the financing will provide that: (i) the bidders, suppliers, contractors, and their
subcontractors, agents, personnel, consultants, service providers, or suppliers will
permit the World Bank as the Supervising Entity, at its request, to inspect all
accounts, records and other documents relating to the submission of bids and
contract performance, and will have said accounts and records audited by auditors
appointed by the Bank/Supervising Entity; and (ii) the deliberate and material
violation of such provision may amount to an obstructive practice as defined in
paragraph 1.16 (a)(v) of the Procurement Guidelines; (b) invitations to bid shall be
advertised in national newspapers with wide circulation; (c) the bid evaluation,
qualification of bidders and contract award criteria shall be clearly indicated in the
bidding documents; (d) bidders shall be given adequate response time (at least four
weeks) to submit bids from the date of the invitation to bid or the date of
availability of bidding documents, whichever is later; (e) eligible bidders,
including foreign bidders, shall be allowed to participate; (f) no domestic or
CEMAC's regional preference shall be given to domestic or regional contractors,
domestically or regionally manufactured goods; and association with national or
-19-
regional firm shall not be a condition for participation in a bidding process;
(g) bids are awarded to the substantially responsive and the lowest evaluated bidder
proven this bidder is qualified. No scoring system shall be allowed for the
evaluation of bids, and no blanket limitation to the number of lots which can be
awarded to a bidder shall apply; and (h) qualification criteria shall only concern
the bidder's capability and resources to perform the contract taking into account
objective and measurable factors.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; (d) Selection based on Consultants'
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Selection of
Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-Source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised
from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant
to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
-20-
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in EUR) 
financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non- 
55,402,500 
100%
consulting services,
consultants' services,
Training and Operating
Costs for the Project
(2) Performance-Based 
29,883,000 
100% of amounts
Payments under Part 
disbursed, payable under
A.2.(b) of the Project 
the respective Performance
Based Contract.
(3) Apprenticeship 
4,728,000 
100% of amounts
Payments under Part 
disbursed, payable under
B.1.(a) of the Project 
the respective
Apprenticeship Payment.
(4) Internship Payments 
2,175,000 
100% of amounts
under Part B.2.(a) of 
disbursed, payable under
the Project 
the respective Internship
Payment.
(5) Sub-Grants under Part 
2,175,000 
100% of amounts
B.3.(e) of the Project 
disbursed, payable under
the respective Sub-Grant
Agreement.
(6) Front-end Fee 
236,500 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(7) Interest Rate Cap or 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar 
Section 2.08(c) of this
premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
94,600,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made from the Loan Account:
-21-
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b) 
under categories (2), (3), (4) and (5), until and unless the Borrower has
prepared and adopted the Procedures Manual in accordance with the
provisions of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2021.
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
The Borrower shall ensure that: (a) a comprehensive record keeping system for the PCU
has been established in a manner satisfactory to the Bank by not later than three (3) months
after the Effective Date; and (b) a procurement training has been provided to appropriate
staff responsible for Project implementation by not later than two (2) months after the
Effective Date.
-22-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Principal Payment Date 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning May 15, 2021 
3,33%
through May 15, 2035
On November 15, 2035 
3.43%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
-23-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (a) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (b) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
-24-
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Annual Work Plan and Budget" means each annual work plan together with the
related budget for the Project approved by the Bank pursuant to the provision of
Section I.C.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants," dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
3. 
"ANPI-Gabon" and "National Agency for the Promotion of Investments" each
means the Borrower's agency responsible for investment promotion and support
to business development established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's
Decree No. 031 1/PR/MPIHAT of September 25, 2014, or any successor thereto,
as amended from time to time.
4. 
"Apprenticeship Beneficiary" means a person eligible (with limited education and
between the age of 16-24 years) to receive an Apprenticeship Payment in
accordance with the provisions of Section H of Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
under the Apprenticeship Program as further detailed in the PM; and
"Apprenticeship Beneficiaries" means more than one Apprenticeship Beneficiary.
5. 
"Apprenticeship Payment" means a payment in the form of a non-refundable grant,
in an amount acceptable to the Bank, by the ONE to an eligible Apprenticeship
Beneficiary under Part B.1(a) of the Project comprising stipends, accident and
medical insurance coverage, made or to be made in accordance with the provisions
of the PM; and "Apprenticeship Payments" means more than one Apprenticeship
Payment.
6. 
"Apprenticeship Program" means a program aimed at facilitating apprenticeships
for Apprenticeship Beneficiaries, as further detailed in the PM.
7. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
8. 
"CEMAC" means the public Economic and Monetary Community of Central
Africa (Communautd Economique et Montaire des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale).
9. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under 1BRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
-25-
10. 
"Displaced Person" means a person who, on account of the execution of an activity
under the Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social
impacts caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or
loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets, or (iii) loss of income sources
or means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location;
or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected
areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person; "Displaced
Persons" means all such persons.
11. 
"Environmental and Social Impact Assessment" and "ESIA" each means, for a
given activity included in the Project, the environmental and social impact
assessment for said activity to be carried out in accordance with the ESMF and
pursuant to provisions of Section I.E.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
12. 
"Environmental and Social Management Plan" and "ESMP" each means an
environmental and social management plan for the Project to be prepared and
implemented in accordance with the ESMF and pursuant to the provisions of
Section I.E.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and "ESMPs" means more than one
ESMP.
13. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" and "ESMF" each means
the Borrower's framework entitled "Environmental and Social Management
Framework," disclosed in the Borrower's territory on November 16, 2014, and at
the Bank's Infoshop on November 26, 2015, detailing: (a) the measures to be taken
during the implementation and operation of the Project to eliminate or offset
adverse environmental and social impacts, or to reduce them to acceptable levels;
and (b) the actions needed to implement these measures, including monitoring and
institution strengthening.
14. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans," dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
15. 
"General Direction of Human Resources" means the public entity within the
ministry responsible for labor and employment established and operating pursuant
to the Borrower's Decree No. 1189/PR/MRH of July 19, 1985, as amended from
time to time, or any successor thereto.
16. 
"FIR" and "Insertion and Reinsertion Fund" each means an entity responsible for
providing financing for supplemental internships and training established pursuant
to the Borrower's presidential order No. 0009/93/PR dated October 1, 1993 and
operating pursuant to Decree No. 000273/PR/MINTRHFP dated March 9, 1994,
or any successor thereto.
17. 
"ICT" means information and communication technology.
-26-
18. 
"Internship Program" means a program aimed at facilitating internships for
Internship Beneficiaries, as further detailed in the MP.
19. 
"Internship Payment" means a payment in the form of a non-refundable grant, in
an amount acceptable to the Bank, by the ONE to an eligible Internship Beneficiary
under Part B.2(a) of the Project comprising stipends, accident and medical
insurance coverage, made or to be made in accordance with the provisions of the
MP; and "Internship Payments" means more than one Internship Payment.
20. 
"Internship Beneficiary" means a person eligible (with a study degree and between
the age of 16-24 years) to receive an Internship Payment in accordance with the
provisions of Section H of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, under the Internship
Program as further detailed in the MP; and "Internship Beneficiaries" means more
than one Internship Beneficiary.
21. 
"Ministry of Vocational Training and Youth Integration" and "MFPIf' each
means the Borrower's ministry in charge of vocational training, or any successor
thereto.
22. 
"National Observatory on Employment and Training" means the Borrower's
agency established and operating pursuant to Decree No. 11 89/PR/MRH of July
19, 1985, as amended from time to time,or any successor thereto.
23. 
"National Office for Employment" and "ONE" each means the Borrower's
organization established and operating pursuant to established pursuant to the
Borrower's presidential order No. no 0008/93/PR dated October 1, 1993 and
operating pursuant to Decree No. 000272/PR/MINTRHFP dated March 9, 1994,
or any successor thereto.
24. 
"Operating Costs" means the incremental operating expenses, approved by the
Bank under each Annual Work Plan and Budget, on account of the Project,
including utilities and offices supplies, vehicle operation, maintenance and
insurance, building and equipment maintenance costs, travel and supervision costs,
and per diem, but excluding the salaries of officials and public servants of the
Borrower's civil service.
25. 
"Performance-Based Contract" and "PBC" each means the agreement referred to
under Section I.F. 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and entered into between the
Borrower, acting through MFPIJ and a selected PBC Beneficiary and pursuant to
which such PBC Beneficiary receives from time to time, Performance-Based
Payments for the implementation of PBCs under Section Part A.2(b) of the Project.
26. 
"PBC Beneficiary" means a TVET Center or a private sector organization
established and operating under the laws of the Borrower, that has met the
-27-
eligibility criteria set forth in Section I.F of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and
elaborated in the PM, pursuant to which the Borrower makes Performance Based
Payments for the carrying out of PBCs under Part A.2(b) of the Project; and "PBC
Beneficiaries" means more than one such beneficiary.
27. 
"Performance-Based Payments" and "PBP" each means any payments made or
proposed to be made out of the proceeds of the Loan by the Borrower to an eligible
PBC Beneficiary under a Performance-Based Contract in accordance with Section
I.F of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, to finance PBCs under Part A.2(b)of the
Project.
28. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
29. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
December 18, 2015 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
30. 
"Project Coordination Unit" and "PCU" each means the unit to be established
under the Project in accordance with Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
31. 
"Procedures Manual" and "PM" each means the Borrower's manual for the Project
to be prepared and adopted in accordance with the provisions of Section I.B of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
32. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" and "RAP" each means a resettlement action plan for
the Project to be prepared and implemented in accordance with the Resettlement
Policy Framework and pursuant to the provisions of Section E. 1 of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement; and "RAPs" means more than one RAP.
33. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" and "RPF" each means the Borrower's
framework entitled "Resettlement Policy Framework", disclosed in the Borrower's
territory on November 16, 2014, and at the Bank's Infoshop on November 25, 2014
and containing guidelines, procedures, timetables and other specifications for the
provision of compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement assistance to Displaced
Persons.
34. 
"Safeguard Instruments" means, collectively, the Safeguards Frameworks and any
ESIA, ESMP, RAP, or other supplemental social and environmental safeguard
documents as required under the terms of the Safeguard Frameworks.
-28-
35. 
"Steering Committee" means the committee to be established under the Project in
accordance with Section I.A. 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
36. 
"Sub-Grant" means a grant made or to be made by the Borrower to a Sub-Grant
Beneficiary, out of the proceeds of the Loan to finance goods, works and services
required to carry out a Sub-project under Part B.3(e) of the Project.
37. 
"Sub-Grant Beneficiary" means a natural person between the ages of 16 and 34, to
which the Borrower has extended a Sub-Grant to finance a startup business under
Part B.3(e) of the Project pursuant to a Sub-Grant Agreement; and "Sub-Grant
Beneficiaries" means more than one such beneficiary.
38. 
"Sub-Grant Agreement" means an agreement between the Borrower and a Sub-
Grant Beneficiary providing for a Sub-Grant under Part B.3(e) of the Project.
39. 
"Sub-project" means a specific development project under Part B.3 of the Project
to be carried out by a Sub-Grant Beneficiary out the proceeds of a Sub-Grant; and
"Sub-projects" means more than one Sub-project.
40. 
"Training" means the training of persons involved in Project-supported activities,
such term including, seminars, workshops, and study tours, and costs associated
with such activity include travel and subsistence costs for training participants,
costs associated with securing the services of trainers, rental of training facilities,
preparation and reproduction of training materials, and other costs directly related
to training preparation and implementation.
41. 
"TVET" means technical and vocational education and training.
42. 
"TVET Center" means a center for technical education or a center for vocational
training in the Borrower's territory, established and operating pursuant to the laws
of the Borrower, and any successor thereto; and "TVET Centers" means more than
one TVET Center.
Section H. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
-29-
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement
(the "Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective
dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan
Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-
annually in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.0 1(b)."
