LOAN NUMBER 8593-CR
Loan Agreement
(Strengthening Universal Health Insurance in Costa Rica Program)
between
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
'F 
\ 
,2016
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
, 
-\ 
,2016, between the REPUBLIC OF COSTA
RICA ("Borrower") and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
1.03. 
This Agreement records the Bank's financing of a "Program for Results", which provides
financing to the Borrower based on delivered results agreed by the two parties.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of four hundred twenty million United States Dollars
($420,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"),
to assist in financing the program described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Program").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited
by the Bank into an account specified by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than sixty
(60) days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e)
of the General Conditions.
-2-
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount
of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency;
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a
Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a
Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable Spread,
or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable
Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable
to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Program. To this end, the
Borrower shall cause the Program to be carried out by the Program Implementing Entity
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the Subsidiary
Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure, through the
Program Implementing Entity, that the Program is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that the Program
Implementing Entity's Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of
-3-
the Program Implementing Entity to perform any of its obligations under the Subsidiary
Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that any event
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of sixty
(60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that the
Subsidiary Agreement has been signed on behalf of the Borrower and the Program
Implementing Entity.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the Subsidiary
Agreement has been duly authorized by the Borrower and the Program Implementing
Entity and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the Program Implementing Entity in
accordance with its terms.
5.03 
The legal opinion to be provided by the Borrower, referred to in Section 9.02 of the General
Conditions, shall be issued by the Borrower's Attorney General (Procurador General de
la Repliblica).
5.04. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline
is the date one hundred eighty (180) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case
later than eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan, which expires on
September 15, 2017.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Ministry of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministerio de Hacienda
Calle 1 y 3 Avenida 2
Diagonal al Teatro Nacional
San Jos6, Costa Rica
Facsimile:
(506) 2255-4874
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
-4-
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
AGREED at 
AV 
; 
L 
, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
By
Authorized Representative
Name:
Title: 
~ 
~ 
s.~~-ZQ,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By 
,
A4thorized Representative
Name:
Title: 
a
e 
e 
by:
Luis Guille
re 
ent o the Republic of Costa Rica
-5-
SCHEDULE1
Program Description
The objectives of the Program are to contribute to: (i) improving the timeliness and quality
of health services; and (ii) enhancing the institutional efficiency of the CCSS.
The Program consists of activities to be implemented by the Program Implementing Entity,
which approved a broad set of initiatives and actions to strengthen the health insurance -
contained
in the 2015-2018 Strategic Plan and the Strategic Agenda for Strengthening Health Insurance -
a
portion of which will be financially supported by the Loan and will allow for a gradual change in
the Program Implementing Entity in order to achieve sustainable results in the short, medium and
long term.
The Program focuses on three priority areas: (i) strengthening the health care model with
special emphasis on increasing the impact of Primary Health Care (PHC), integration of integrated
health care networks, and a more effective approach to prevention, early diagnosis, and control of
chronic non-communicable diseases (NCDs); (ii) improving institutional management; and (iii)
optimizing financial management.
The Program consists of the following activities to be implemented by the Program
Implementing Entity:
Part I: 
Strengthening the Health Care Model
Boosting the scope and capacity of PHC facilities to prevent and control NCDs, and
integrating health services across different levels using international best practices, allowing for
comprehensive, timely treatment and ensuring continuity of care in the various levels of care of the
health insurance system, through the following activities:
(a) 
modernizing and strengthening the PHC network nationwide to improve the
quality of services, increase coverage of the population, and ensuring that the
network has greater capacity for prevention, early diagnosis, and control of non-
communicable diseases (NCDs) and other conditions that are relevant to the local,
regional, and national epidemiological profile; and
(b) 
strengthening the integration of PHC services into the network of services at all
levels of care, including: (i) expanding infrastructure and equipment at the first and
second levels of care; (ii) improving human resources training to better attend to
the needs of patients; (iii) upgrading equipment; (iv) updating clinical guidelines
and pathways, with an emphasis on chronic conditions affecting a large part of the
population; and (v) implementing new mechanisms for integrating PHC with
second level services (hospitals) using international best practices.
-6-
Part H: Improving Institutional Management
Strengthening institutional capacity to better manage the Program Implementing Entity
in general, and the health insurance in particular, including:
(a) 
aligning central level management to reduce the complexity of administrative
processes;
(b) 
reducing management in silos through linking health care decisions with their
impact on administrative and financial changes and nation-wide objectives; and
(c) 
increasing the use and impact of household data collected by the PHC teams by
digitalizing data and linking it to existing E-Health tools to generate big data pools
for directors and managers to enable them to better allocate resources and monitor
results.
Part III: Optimizing Financial Management
Improving the quality of financial data for the Program Implementing Entity's Senior
Management and Board of Directors to enable them to closely monitor actuarial analysis and
income/expenditure trends, including:
(a) 
improving the institutional capacity in terms of financial and budgetary
management;
(b) 
adopting international 
best management practices to strengthen financial
management; and
(c) 
optimizing administrative, logistical and financial processes and procedures
supported by a comprehensive computerized system that allows for consolidated,
real-time financial information, including optimizing the units at the central level.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Program Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Program Fiduciary, Environmental and Social Systems
Without limitation on the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the Borrower
shall cause the Program to be carried out by the Program Implementing Entity in
accordance with financial management, procurement and environmental and social
management systems acceptable to the Bank ("Program Fiduciary, Environmental and
Social Systems") which are designed to ensure that:
1. 
the Loan proceeds are used for their intended purposes, with due attention to the
principles of economy, efficiency, effectiveness, transparency, and accountability;
and
2. 
the actual and potential adverse environmental and social impacts of the Program
are identified, avoided, minimized, or mitigated, as the case may be, all through an
informed decision-making process.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall cause the
Program to be carried out by the Program Implementing Entity in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Other Program Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
1 .
Program Institutions
Without limitation on the generality of Part A of this Section I, the Borrower shall cause
the Program Implementing Entity to operate and maintain the Program, during Program
implementation, with technical, environmental and social safeguards, fiduciary and other
Program related responsibilities for implementing the Program, with powers, functions,
capacity, staffing and resources satisfactory to the Bank to fulfill its functions under the
Program.
2. 
Subsidiary Agreement
(a) 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Program, the Borrower shall make the proceeds
of the Loan available to the Program Implementing Entity under a subsidiary
agreement between the Borrower and the Program Implementing Entity
("Subsidiary Agreement"), under terms and conditions approved by the Bank,
which shall include, inter alia, the following:
(i) 
the Borrower's obligation to make the Loan available under the Subsidiary
Agreement as a non-reimbursable transfer and denominated in U.S.
Dollars; and
-8-
(ii) 
the Program Implementing Entity's obligation to comply with the
pertinent obligations set forth in this Agreement, as applicable, to said
Program Implementing Entity.
(b) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the
Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate,
waive or fail to enforce the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions.
3. 
Additional Program Implementation Arrangements
Without limitation on the generality of Part A of this Section I, the Borrower shall cause
the Program Implementing Entity to carry out the Program in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank, and shall ensure that the Program is not amended, revised, waived, voided,
suspended, terminated or abrogated, without the prior written consent of the Bank.
4. 
Independent Assessment or Audit
The Bank may, at its discretion and if it deems necessary, from time to time, request
assessments or audits by independent agencies acceptable to the Bank to verify the data
supporting the achievement of one or more DLIs.
Section H. 
Excluded Activities
The Borrower shall cause the Program Implementing Entity to ensure that the Program
excludes any activities which:
A. 
in the opinion of the Bank, are likely to have significant adverse impacts that are sensitive,
diverse, or unprecedented on the environment and/or affected people; or
B. 
involve the procurement of: (1) works, estimated to cost one hundred fifteen million
Dollars ($115,000,000) equivalent or more per contract; (2) goods, estimated to cost
seventy-five million Dollars ($75,000,000) equivalent or more per contract; (3) non-
consulting services, estimated to cost sixty million Dollars ($60,000,000) equivalent or
more per contract; or (4) consultants' services, estimated to cost thirty million Dollars
($30,000,000) equivalent or more per contract.
-9-
Section III. 
Program Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation; Audits
A. 
Program Reports
The Borrower shall cause the Program Implementing Entity to monitor and evaluate the
progress of the Program and prepare Program Reports in accordance with the provisions
of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions. Each Program Report shall cover the period of
one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one month after
the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Program Financial Audits
Without limitation on the generality of Section I.A of this Schedule 2 and Section 5.09 of
the General Conditions, the Borrower shall cause the Program Implementing Entity to have
the Financial Statements of the Program audited in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall
cover the period of one fiscal year of the Program Implementing Entity, or any other period
to be agreed with the Bank. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the
Bank may specify from time to time by notice to the Borrower to finance the Program
Expenditures, on the basis of the results ("Disbursement Linked Results" or "DLRs")
achieved by the Program Implementing Entity, as measured against specific indicators
("Disbursement Linked Indicators" or "DLIs"); all as set forth in the table in paragraph 2
of this Part A.
2. 
The following table specifies each category of withdrawal of the proceeds of the Loan
(including the Disbursement Linked Indicators as applicable) 
("Category"), the
Disbursement Linked Results for each Category (as applicable), and the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category:
- 10 -
Category 
Disbursement 
Disbursement 
Amount of the
(including Disbursement 
Linked Result 
Linked Result 
Loan Allocated
Linked Indicator 
Baseline 
(as applicable) 
(expressed in
as applicable) 
(as applicable) 
USD)
(1) DLI #1: 
18% 
DLI#1.1: 20% 
$30,000,000
Percentage of major surgeries 
DLI#1.2: 40% 
$30,000,000
from Priority List conducted in
outpatient settings according to 
$150,000 for every
CCSS Institutional Guidelines 
0.1% above 20%
(maximum
$30,000,000)
(2) DLI #2: 
0% 
DLI#2.1: 10% 
$30,000,000
Cumulative percentage of 
DLI#2.2: 40% 
$30,000,000
Target Population personally
invited to undergo colon cancer 
0% aove0
0. 1% above 10%
screening in the five Priority 
(maximum
Counties 
$30,000,000)
(3) DLI#3: 
39% 
DLI#3.1: 41% 
$30,000,000
Percentage of individuals 
DLI#3.2: 43% 
$30,000,000
diagnosed with Diabetes Type
II under Optimal Clinical 
.0% aove
.0 1% above 41 %
Control 
(maximum
$30,000,000)
(4) DLI#4: 
DLI#4. 1: Pilot 
$30,000,000
Pilot project on integrated 
project approved
health networks approved by 
DLI#4.2: 
$30,000,000
the CCSS Board and 
Evaluation of pilot
implemented for a Selected 
publicly
Population and Territory and 
disseminated
evaluated with results publicly
disseminated
(5) DLI#5 
50% 
DLI5.1: 60% 
$30,000,000
Percentage of total number of 
DLI5.1: 80% 
$30,000,000
primary health care units with
the Unique Digital Health 
$150,000 for every
Record e-health package 
0.1% over 60%
(maximum
$30,000,000)
- 11 -
(6) DLI#6 
DLI#6. 1: CCSS 
$30,000,000
Redesign, implementation and 
Board approval of
use of data collected by the new 
sati 
n 
survey
annual survey to measure
impact of new interventions to 
DLI#6.2: Report 
$30,000,000
improve patient satisfaction 
on impact of
interventions to
improve patient
satisfaction
approved by CCSS
Board
(7) DLI#7 
DLI#7. 1: Ten-year 
$20,000,000
Development and execution of 
investment plan
a comprehensive medium and 
ard
long-term plan to ensure the
financial sustainability of the 
DLI#7.2: Actuarial 
$20,000,000
CCSS 
valuation of health
insurance study
approved by CCSS
Board and publicly
disseminated
DLI#7.3: Annual 
$20,000,000
budget of CCSS
approved by CCSS
Board and CGR
using Prospective
Budgeting Tools
TOTAL AMOUNT 
$420,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-
end Fee;
(b) 
for purposes of Section 2.05 of the General Conditions, for payments for Program
Expenditures made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $105,000,000 may be made for such
payments made prior to this date but on or after twelve (12) months prior to the
date of this Agreement; and
(c) 
for any DLR under Categories (1) through (7), until and unless the Borrower has
caused the Program Implementing Entity to furnish evidence satisfactory to the
- 12 -
Bank that said DLR has been achieved, in accordance with the DLI Achievement
and Verification Protocol set forth in Schedule 4 of this Agreement.
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B. 1(c) of this Section:
(a) 
the Borrower may withdraw an amount not to exceed $105,000,000 as an advance;
(b) 
any further withdrawals requested as an advance shall be permitted only on such
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower;
(c) 
if any amount of the advance remains outstanding by the Closing Date, and any
verified evidence required to be provided by the Borrower, through the Program
Implementing Entity, to the Bank under Part B.1(c) of this Section in relation to
said amount has not been furnished to the Bank by the Closing Date, the Borrower
shall refund such advance (or portion of such advance as determined by the Bank
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2(d) of this Part B) to the Bank
promptly upon notice thereof by the Bank. Except as otherwise agreed with the
Borrower, the Bank shall cancel the amount so refunded; and
(d) 
if the Bank is not satisfied that any of the DLRs under Categories (1) through (7)
has been achieved, the Bank may, at any time, by notice to the Borrower, decide,
in its sole discretion, to:
(i) 
authorize the withdrawal of such lesser amount of the unwithdrawn
proceeds of the Program Financing then allocated to said Category for the
Program which, in the opinion of the Bank, corresponds to the extent of
achievement of said DLR, said lesser amount to be calculated in
accordance with the established formula for each DLR under Categories
(1), (2), (3), and (5);
(ii) 
reallocate all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said
DLR to any other DLR; and/or
(iii) 
cancel all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said
DLR.
3. 
The Closing Date is April 30, 2022.
4. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section IV, if at any time after the Closing
Date the Borrower has failed to provide evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the
Withdrawn Loan Balance does not exceed the total amount of Program Expenditures paid
by the Borrower, through the Program Implementing Entity, exclusive of any such
expenditures financed by any other financier or by the Bank or the Association under any
other loan, credit or grant, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund
to the Bank such excess amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance. The Bank shall cancel
the refunded amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance.
- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: 
(a)
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment
Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary,
to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each February 15 and August 15
Beginning August 15, 2022
through February 15, 2049 
1.82%
On August 15, 2049 
1.72%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as
of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding
on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall
- 14 -
be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b). 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating
to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
- 15 -
Schedule 4
DLI Achievement and Verification Protocol
Scalable 
DLI Evaluation, Achievement and Verification Protocol
DLI 
Disbursement 
Data Source/Agency 
Verification 
Procedure
(Yes/No) 
____________
1 Percentage of 
Yes 
Department of 
Independent 
Information collected
major surgeries 
Projected Health 
Verification 
from each facility and
from priority 
Services 
Entity - IVE 
aggregated through
list conducted 
Administrative Data 
(to be 
customized databases.
in outpatient 
Health Care 
contracted 
Data subject to
settings 
Management 
before first 
validation by the Health
according to 
disbursement) 
Care Management
institutional 
Department.
guidelines.
2 
Cumulative 
Yes 
Primary Health Care 
IVE 
* 
Determination of
percentage of 
(PHC) Facility 
total target
target 
Records Data. 
population.
population 
Health Statistics 
* 
Determination of
personally 
Department 
eligible population.
invited to 
* 
Participating
undergo colon 
individuals are
cancer 
those out of eligible
screening in 
population that
the five priority 
were prescribed a
counties. 
cancer screening
test according to the
program schedule.
* 
A participating
individual can only
be counted one time
for being prescribed
a cancer screening.
* 
If people
participating in the
Program for the first
time have the
cancer-screening
test done, they will
be included as first
round participants.
* 
Indicator refers to.
the percentage of
eligible population
in the entire area
covered by the
selected Areas de
Salud that have
been personally
invited to undergo a
cancer screening.
-16-
Schedule 4
DLI Achievement and Verification Protocol
Scalable 
DLI Evaluation, Achievement and erification Protocol
DLI 
Disbursement 
Data Source/Agency 
Verification 
Procedure
(fesfiNo)
3 
Percentage of 
Yes 
"Performance 
IVE 
Revision of clinical
individuals 
Evaluation in 
records of patients
diagnosed with 
Delivering Institutional 
diagnosed with diabetes
Diabetes Type 
Healthcare Services" 
Type II and comparison
II that are 
conducted by the 
with national clinical
under Optimal 
Health Services 
guidelines.
Clinical 
Procurement
Control. 
Department under the
Medical Management
with Administrative
Data/Health Services
Procurement
Department, Medical
Management, CCSS
4 
Pilot project on 
No 
Pilot Project CCSS 
IVE 
Design of pilot project
integrated 
Task Force Report/ 
will include the
health 
Institutional Planning 
evaluation methodology
networks 
Department, CCSS 
and the final report will
implemented 
follow the original
for a Selected 
design with any
Population and 
adjustments that may
Territory and 
have been necessary as
evaluated with 
pilot enters in the
the results 
implementation stage.
publicly
disseminated.
5 
Percentage of 
Yes 
Implementation 
IVE 
Project Management
total number of 
Reports 
will identify progress
primary health 
Institutional Planning 
towards increased
care units 
Department, CCSS 
EDUS coverage.
(Areas de
Salud) with the
Unique Digital
Health Record
e-health
package
(EDUS).
- 17 -
Schedule 4
DLI Achievement and Verification Protocol
Scalable 
DLI Evaluation, Achievement and Verification Protocol
DLI 
Disbursement 
Data Source/Agency 
Verification 
Procedure
(Yes/No) 
DaaSore/gny_eifctonPocdr
6 
Redesign,
implementation
and use of a
new annual
survey to
measure
impact of new
interventions to
improve
patient
satisfaction.
Board 
No 
Board of Directors 
IVE 
The Board of Directors
approval of 
approval 
has approved the
survey 
Institutional Planning 
redesign of the survey
redesign. 
Department, CCSS 
and its implementation.
Report on 
No 
Report furnished by the 
IVE 
The report on the
impact of 
Institutional Planning 
impact of the patient
interventions to 
Department, CCSS 
satisfaction
improve 
interventions is
patient 
completed and approved
satisfaction 
by the CCSS' Board of
completed and 
Directors.
I approved.
- 18-
Schedule 4
DLI Achievement and Verification Protocol
Scalable 
DLI Evaluation, Achievement and Verification Protocol
DLI 
Disbursement 
Data Source/Agency 
Verification 
Procedure
____________ 
(Yes/No)
7 
Development
and execution
ofa
comprehensive
medium- and
long-term plan
to ensure the
financial
sustainability
of the CCSS.
Ten-year 
No 
Financial Management 
IVE 
Annual Budget
investment 
Department, CCSS 
Reporting
master plan 
Institutional Planning
approved. 
Department, CCSS
Actuarial 
No 
Financial Management 
IVE 
Board of Directors
Valuation of 
Department, CCSS 
Approval
Health 
Institutional Planning
Insurance. 
Department, CCSS
One annual 
No 
Budget Department 
IVE 
Annual Budget
budget 
Institutional Planning 
Reporting
executed using 
Department, CCSS
as inputs risk
adjusted
capitations and
DRGs as
inputs.
- 19 -
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" means the Bank's "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Program-for-Results Financing," dated February 1,
2012, and revised July 10, 2015.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
3. 
"CCSS" means the Program Implementing Entity, as defined below.
4. 
"CCSS Board" means the Board of Directors of the Program Implementing Entity, or any
legal successor thereto.
5. 
"CCSS Institutional Guidelines" means internal clinical guidelines of CCSS for health care
services providers, based on guidance provided by its Health Care Management
Department and on national and international evidence.
6. 
"CGR" means the Borrower's Office of the Comptroller General (Contraloria General de
la Reptiblica), or any legal successor thereto.
7. 
"Disbursement Linked Indicator" or "DLI" means in respect of a given Category, the
indicator related to said Category as set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
8. 
"Disbursement Linked Result" or "DLR" means in respect of a given Category, the result
under said Category as set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, on the basis of the achievement of which, the amount of the Loan allocated to
said result may be withdrawn in accordance with the provisions of said Section IV.
9. 
"Diagnosis-Related Groups" or "DRGs" means a statistical system of classifying any
inpatient stay into groups for the purposes of payment.
10. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
11. 
"HPV" means human papillomavirus.
12. 
"NCDs" means non-communicable diseases.
13. 
"Optimal Clinical Control" means for individuals diagnosed with Diabetes Type II an
HBAc I test score below or equal to seven (7) percent in the last year.
14. 
"Priority Counties" means the counties within the Borrower's territory identified by the
Health Statistics Department of CCSS as having the highest incidence rate of colon cancer.
-20-
15. 
"Priority List" means the priority list of major surgeries and consists of varicectomies,
hernias, salpingectomies, bone biopsies, osteo-synthetic devices removal, and laparoscopic
cholecystectomies, which is based on the Borrower's Department of Projected Health
Service Network data updated as of May 12, 2015.
16. 
"Program Fiduciary and Environmental and Social Systems" means the Borrower's and
the Program Implementing Entity's systems for the Program referred to in Section I., Part
A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
17. 
"Program Implementing Entity" means the Costa Rican Social Security Administration, an
entity vested with legal personality, or any legal successor thereto.
18. 
"Program Implementing Entity's Legislation" means the "Constitutive Act of the Costa
Rican Social Security Fund", Law No. 17, dated October 22, 1943.
19. 
"Prospective Budgeting Tools" means risk adjusted capitations for integrated networks of
first and second level of care and DRGs as inputs for third level hospitals, using as input
the estimated risk-adjusted capitation by sex, age and morbidity for integrated first and
second level networks.
20. 
"Selected Population and Territory" means a territorial area comprising first and second
level of care, based on demographic, socioeconomic and epidemiological parameters, as
defined by the CCSS Board and approved by the Bank.
21. 
"Selected Procedures" means hip and knee replacements in all third level hospitals.
22. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.C.2(a) of Schedule
2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan
available to the Program Implementing Entity.
23. 
"Target Population" means adults of ages 50 to 75-years-old in the Borrower's top five
priority counties.
24. 
"Unique Digital Health Record" means software that is a comprehensive electronic and
digital platform developed by CCSS for primary health care centers and other outpatient
facilities to collect and pool in a digital format big data sets using clinical and health risk
data from individuals and households for in-patient facilities at the primary health care
level.
Section H. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
Wherever used throughout the General Conditions, the term "the Project" is modified to
read "the Program", the term "the Project Agreement" is modified to read "the Program
Agreement", the term "Project Implementing Entity" is modified to read "the Program
Implementing Entity", the term "Project Report" is modified to read "Program Report";
and the term "Eligible Expenditures" is modified to read "Program Expenditures".
-21-
2. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the amendments set forth below.
3. 
Section 2.02, Special Commitment by the Bank, is deleted in its entirety, and the subsequent
Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
4. 
In Section 2.02 (originally numbered as Section 2.03), the heading "Applications for
Withdrawal or for Special Commitment" is replaced with "Applications for Withdrawal",
and the phrase "or to request the Bank to enter into a Special Commitment" is deleted.
5. 
The section originally numbered as Section 2.04, Designated Accounts is deleted in its
entirety, and the subsequent Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
6. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (originally numbered as Section 2.05), Eligible Expenditures
(renamed "Program Expenditures" in accordance with paragraph I of this Section II), is
modified to read: "(a) the payment is for the financing of the reasonable cost of
expenditures required for the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
in accordance with the provisions of the Legal Agreements;".
7. 
The last sentence of Section 2.04 (originally numbered as Section 2.06), Financing Taxes,
is modified to read: "To that end, if the Bank at any time determines that the amount of any
such Tax is excessive, or that such Tax is discriminatory or otherwise unreasonable, the
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, exclude such amount or such Tax from the Program
Expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as required to ensure
consistency with such policy of the Bank."
8. 
Section 2.06 (originally numbered as Section 2.08), Reallocation, is modified to read:
"Notwithstanding any allocation of an amount of the Loan to a withdrawal category under
the Loan Agreement, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, reallocate any other amount
of the Loan to such category if the Bank reasonably determines at any time that such
reallocation is appropriate for the purposes of the Program.
9. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty (60) days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually
in arrears on each Payment Date."
-22-
10. 
Section 7.01, Cancellation by the Borrower, is modified to read: "The Borrower may, by
notice to the Bank, cancel any amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance."
11. 
Paragraph (d) of Section 7.03, Cancellation by the Bank, entitled "Misprocurement", is
deleted, and subsequent paragraphs are relettered accordingly.
12. 
Section 7.04, Amounts Subject to Special Commitment not Affected by Cancellation or
Suspension by the Bank, is deleted in its entirety, and subsequent Sections in Article VII
and references to such Sections are renumbered accordingly.
13. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all references to Section numbers and paragraphs are
modified, as necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above.
14. 
A new paragraph 19 is inserted with the following definition of "Commitment Charge",
and the remaining paragraphs are renumbered accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
15. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01
(a).
16. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition
of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower."
17. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and
Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
18. 
Renumbered paragraph 88 (originally paragraph 87) of the Appendix, setting forth the
definition of "Special Commitment" is deleted in its entirety, and all subsequent paragraphs
are renumbered accordingly.
