OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8626-AO
Loan Agreement
(Smallholder Agriculture Development and Commercialization Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 30, 2016
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8626-AO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated September 30, 2016, between REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of seventy million Dollars
($70,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided,
that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the
General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.
-2-
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April I and October I each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to:
(A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05(c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -EFFECTIVENESS; 
TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The Borrower has adopted a Project Implementation Manual acceptable to
the Bank.
(b) 
The Borrower has recruited a project coordinator, a financial management
specialist, and a procurement specialist for the PIU, each with
qualifications, experience and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank,
and in accordance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its minister responsible for finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Minist6rio das Finanqas
Largo da Mutamba
Luanda, Angola
Facsimile:
+244 222 706 002/3
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at Luanda, Republic of Angola, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
By:
H.E. Augusto Archer Mangueira
Minister of Finance
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By:
Clara Ana Coutinho De Sousa
Country Manager for Angola
Africa Region
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to increase smallholder agriculture productivity,
production and marketing for selected crops in the Project areas.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A. Capacity Building and Institutional Development
1. 
Strengthening the capacity of smallholder farmers and farmers' organizations in
critical 
aspects of agriculture 
through farmer 
field schools, 
including:
(a) 
supporting the establishment of smallholder 
farmers' 
organizations;
(b) strengthening the knowledge of farmers on agricultural practices, technology,
inputs and marketing; (c) strengthening the functional literacy and numeracy of
farmers; (d) improving household nutrition; (e) improving soil fertility and
integrated nutrient management; (f) promoting conservation agriculture; and
(g) building the capacity of relevant government staff at the municipal level to
implement a farmer field schools program.
2. 
(a) Strengthening the institutional capacity of local, provincial, and national units
of the Ministry of Agriculture in the areas of irrigation, extension, market
information, statistics and policy analysis to improve provision of services to
smallholder farmers at the farm level investments; and (b) rehabilitating and
constructing agricultural extension facilities at the local level of the Ministry of
Agriculture, including offices and residential complexes for agricultural extension
staff.
3. 
Strengthening the capacity of agricultural research systems to enhance access to
innovations and technologies for increasing farm productivity and production,
including: (a) supporting the multiplication of seeds and planting material;
(b) developing technology packages for selected crops; (c) improving soil
diagnostic services; (d) building the technical capacity of the national research and
extension system; and (e) increased field testing and demonstration of improved
technologies.
Part B. Support for Increased Production and Commercialization
1 .
Providing support in preparing proposals for Subprojects and in implementing
selected Subprojects under Part B.2 of the Project.
2. 
Carrying out Subprojects in Participating Provinces, and providing Matching
Grants to Beneficiaries for carrying out said Subprojects, in the following areas:
(a) rehabilitation and construction of small scale irrigation and drainage schemes;
-6-
(b) agricultural production and productivity improvements; and (c) post-harvest
management and value addition.
Part C. Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
1. 
(a) 
Strengthening the capacity of the PlU 
for Project management,
coordination, monitoring and evaluation, including fiduciary (i.e. financial
and procurement management), environmental, and social safeguards
compliance, audits and reporting support; and
(b) 
Strengthening the capacity of the PPIUs to assist in Project management,
coordination, monitoring and evaluation at the provincial level, including
fiduciary (i.e. financial and procurement management), environmental,
and social safeguards compliance, and reporting.
2. 
Establishing and implementing a monitoring and evaluation system for the Project,
including establishing a management information system within the PIU.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture shall have the overall responsibility for
the Project.
2. 
Project Coordination Committee
(a) 
The Borrower, through its Ministry of Agriculture, shall establish, not later
than six (6) months after the Effective Date, and thereafter maintain,
throughout the implementation of the Project, a coordination committee
("Project Coordination Committee" or "PCC"), with a composition,
mandate, and resources satisfactory to the Bank, and which shall be
chaired by the Minister of Agriculture.
(b) 
Without limitation to sub-paragraph (a) immediately above, the PCC shall
be responsible for: (i) providing strategic guidance and oversight to ensure
prompt and efficient implementation of the Project; (ii) promoting inter-
ministerial coordination; and (iii) approving annual work plans and
budgets and annual reports prepared by the PIU, all in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Implementation Manual.
3. 
Project Implementation Sub-Committee
(a) 
The Borrower shall establish, not later than six (6) months after the
Effective Date and thereafter maintain, throughout the implementation of
the Project, an implementation sub-committee ("Project Implementation
Sub-Committee" or "PISC") under the PCC, with a composition, mandate,
and resources satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) 
Without limitation to sub-paragraph (a) immediately above, the PISC shall
be responsible for: (i) facilitating Project-related decisions and procedures;
(ii) approving Subprojects requiring national level decision-making; and
(iii) proposing annual work plans and budgets and submitting annual
reports to the PCC, all in accordance with the provisions of the Project
Implementation Manual.
-8-
4. 
Project Implementation Unit
(a) 
The Borrower shall establish, not later than six (6) months after the
Effective Date, and thereafter maintain, throughout the implementation of
the Project, a project implementation unit ("Project Implementation Unit"
or "PlU") within ADI, with functions, staffing and resources satisfactory
to the Bank.
(b) 
Without limitation to sub-paragraph (a) immediately above, the PIU shall
be responsible for day-to-day administration of overall planning,
coordination, the technical, fiduciary (i.e. procurement and financial
management), 
environmental 
and 
social 
safeguards 
compliance,
monitoring, evaluation, reporting and communication of the activities
under the Project, all in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement
and the Project Implementation Manual.
(c) 
Without limitation to sub-paragraph (b) immediately above, the PIU shall
be responsible for requesting the Bank's prior review of all Subprojects
considered to be financed by a Matching Grant that exceeds the amount
imposed under Section I.E.2(b) of this Schedule.
5. 
Provincial Project Coordination Committees
(a) 
The Borrower shall establish, not later than six (6) months after the
Effective Date, and thereafter maintain, throughout the implementation of
the Project, a provincial coordination committee for each of the
Participating Provinces ("Provincial Project Coordination Committee" or
"PPCC"), with a composition, mandate, and resources satisfactory to the
Bank. Each PPCC shall be chaired by the provincial vice-governor
responsible for economic development of the corresponding Participating
Province.
(b) 
Without limitation to sub-paragraph (a) immediately above, each PPCC
shall be responsible for providing strategic guidance and oversight to
ensure prompt and efficient implementation of the Project at the provincial
level, in accordance with the provisions of the Project Implementation
Manual.
6. 
Provincial Project Implementation Sub-Committees
(a) 
The Borrower shall establish, not later than six (6) months after the
Effective Date, and thereafter maintain, throughout the implementation of
the Project, a provincial implementation sub-committee for each of the
Participating 
Provinces 
("Provincial Project 
Implementation 
Sub-
-9-
Committee" or "PPISC") under the corresponding PPCC, with a
composition, mandate, and resources satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) 
Without limitation to sub-paragraph (a) immediately above, each PPISC
shall be responsible for: (i) facilitating Project-related decisions and
procedures at the provincial level; (ii) approving Subprojects requiring
provincial level decision-making; (iii) recommending for approval at the
national level Subprojects that require national level decision-making;
(iv) approving annual work plans and budgets at the provincial level
prepared by the relevant PPIU for submission to the PIU; and
(v) approving annual reports at the provincial level prepared by the
relevant PPIU for submission to the PIU, all in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Implementation Manual.
7. 
Provincial Project Implementation Units
(a) 
The Borrower shall establish, not later than six (6) months after the
Effective Date, and thereafter maintain, throughout the implementation of
the Project, a provincial project implementation unit for each of the
Participating Provinces ("Provincial Project Implementation Unit" or
"PPIU") within the corresponding provincial offices of ADI, with
functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) 
Without limitation to sub-paragraph (a) immediately above, each PPIU
shall assist the PIU in the administration of overall planning, coordination,
the technical, fiduciary (i.e. procurement and financial management),
environmental and social safeguards compliance, monitoring, evaluation,
reporting and communication of the activities under the Project in the
corresponding 
Participating Province, all in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement and the Project Implementation Manual.
(c) 
The Borrower shall recruit for each PPIU, not later than three (3) months
after the Effective Date, a provincial project coordinator, accountant, and
monitoring and evaluation specialist, each with qualifications, experience
and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and in accordance with the
provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
8. 
The Borrower shall, not later than six (6) months after the Effective Date:
(a) 
hire a service provider to assist in the implementation of Part B of the
Project, with qualifications, experience and terms of reference acceptable
to the Bank, and in accordance with the provisions of Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
bo'
- 10-
(b) 
ensure that a memorandum of understanding for the implementation of
Part A.3 of the Project has been executed on behalf of ADI and IIA, in
form and substance acceptable to the Bank.
B. 
Project Implementation Manual
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with the
provisions of a manual satisfactory to the Bank ("Project Implementation
Manual"), which shall include the following provisions: (a) institutional
coordination and day-to-day execution of the Project; (b) Project budgeting,
disbursement and financial management; (c) procurement; (d) environmental and
social safeguards guidelines, including the screening process for proposals for
Subprojects; (e) monitoring, evaluation, reporting and communication of Project
activities; (f) eligibility criteria and procedures for extending Matching Grants;
(g) appraisal and approval processes for proposals for Subprojects, including a
negative list of activities that cannot be carried out under Subprojects; (h) model
form of the Matching Grant Agreement acceptable to the Bank; and (i) such other
administrative, 
financial, technical, and organizational 
arrangements 
and
procedures as shall be required for the Project.
2. 
The Borrower shall not amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any provision of
the Project Implementation Manual without the prior written agreement of the
Bank; provided, however, that in case of any conflict between the arrangements
and procedures set out in the Project Implementation Manual and the provisions of
this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
C. 
Annual Work Plan and Budget
1 .
The Borrower shall, not later than October 31 of each year, prepare and furnish to
the Bank, an Annual Work Plan and Budget containing all activities proposed to
be included in the Project and a proposed financing plan for expenditures required
for such activities, setting forth the proposed amounts and sources of financing.
2. 
The Borrower shall afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower on such proposed Annual Work Plan and Budget and thereafter
ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with such Annual Work Plan
and Budget as shall have been approved by the Bank.
D. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
-ll-
E. 
Subprojects and Matching Grants
Eligibility Criteria and Procedures for Provision of Matching Grants
1. 
The Borrower shall provide Matching Grants to Beneficiaries for purposes of
undertaking Subprojects, in accordance with eligibility criteria and procedures
acceptable to the Bank and further elaborated in the Project Implementation
Manual, which shall include the following:
(a) 
no proposed Beneficiary shall be eligible to receive a Matching Grant
unless the proposed Beneficiary is:
(i) 
(A) 
for Subprojects involving small scale irrigation schemes
or 
agricultural 
production 
and 
productivity
improvements, 
a 
smallholder 
farmers' 
group 
or
organization, all the members of which have completed
training under a farmer field schools program; or
(B) 
for Subprojects involving post-harvest management and
value addition: (1) a smallholder farmers' group or
organization described in item (A) immediately above,
with proven capacity for market-oriented production or
value chain activities; or (2) a small rural enterprise
established and operating under the laws of the Borrower,
with proven capacity for market-oriented production or
value chain activities, and with the organization,
management, technical capacity and financial resources
necessary to carry out a proposed Subproject;
(ii) 
has prepared a satisfactory business plan, including financing plan
and budget, and a satisfactory implementation plan for the
proposed Subproject;
(iii) 
has not previously benefited from a Matching Grant or, if it has
benefited from a Matching Grant, it has completed the
corresponding Subproject in a manner satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Bank; and
(iv) 
has provided satisfactory evidence of the ability to provide the
required Beneficiary's contribution to the financing of its
Subproject, as stated in the Project Implementation Manual, out
of resources other than the Matching Grant.
(b) 
no proposed Subproject shall be eligible for financing under a Matching
Grant unless the Borrower shall have determined, on the basis of an
- 12-
appraisal carried out in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank
and elaborated in the Project Implementation Manual, that the proposed
Subproject:
(i) 
is technically feasible and economically and financially viable;
(ii) 
would have positive impacts on market demand for smallholder
produce;
(iii) 
is potentially replicable and scalable for other farmers and
farmers' organizations; and
(iv) 
has fulfilled the requirements of any applicable Safeguards
Instrument;
(c) 
without limitation on the provisions of sub-paragraph (b)(iv) immediately
above, if, pursuant to the ESMF and/or RPF, one or more Safeguards
Instruments for the Subproject are required, such proposed Subproject
shall not be eligible for financing under a Matching Grant until such
Safeguards Instruments have been prepared and approved by the Bank in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d) of this Section I.E.1, and
all measures required to be carried out in accordance with Section I.F of
this Schedule prior to commencement of the activities covered by the
Safeguards Instruments have been carried out; and
(d) 
each Matching Grant for a Subproject requiring a Safeguards Instrument
shall be subject to the Bank's prior written approval and shall only be
eligible for financing under the Loan if and to the extent approved by
Bank.
Terms and Conditions for Matching Grants
2. 
The Borrower shall provide each Matching Grant to a Beneficiary under a
Matching Grant Agreement with the respective Beneficiary on terms and
conditions approved by the Bank, and consistent with the model form of the
Matching Grant Agreement in the Project Implementation Manual, which shall
include, inter alia, the following:
(a) 
the Matching Grant shall be made on a non-reimbursable grant basis,
subject to the provisions of paragraph (c)(i) below;
(b) 
the Matching Grant shall not exceed the lesser of: (i) $100,000; and
(ii) the total estimated cost of the Subproject minus the amount of the
Beneficiary's required contribution as stated in the Project Implementation
Manual;
A371
- 13 -
(c) 
the Borrower shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and those
of the Bank, including the right to:
(i) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to use the
proceeds of the Matching Grant or obtain a refund of all or any
part of the amount of the Matching Grant then withdrawn, upon
the Beneficiary's failure to perform any of its obligations under
the Matching Grant Agreement; and
(ii) 
require each Beneficiary to:
(A) 
carry out its Subproject with due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with sound technical, economic,
financial, managerial, environmental and social standards
and practices satisfactory to the Bank, including in
accordance with: (1) the provisions of the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of loan
proceeds other than the Borrower, and (2) the Safeguards
Instruments;
(B) 
provide, promptly as needed, the resources required for
the purpose;
(C) 
procure the goods, works and services to be financed out
of the Matching Grant in accordance with the provisions
of this Agreement;
(D) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate in accordance with indicators
acceptable to the Bank, the progress of the Subproject and
the achievement of its objectives;
(E) 
(1) maintain a financial management system and prepare
financial statements in accordance with consistently
applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, both
in a manner adequate to reflect the operations, resources
and expenditures related to the Subproject; and (2) at the
Bank's or the Borrower's request, have such financial
statements audited by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, and promptly
furnish the statements as so audited to the Borrower and
the Bank;
IP
- 14-
(F) 
enable the Borrower and the Bank to inspect the
Subproject, its operation and any relevant records and
documents; and
(G) 
prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such
information as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably
request relating to the foregoing.
3. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Matching Grant Agreement in
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in
writing, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Matching
Grant Agreement or any of its provisions.
F. 
Safeguards
1 .
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Safeguards
Instruments.
2. 
To this end, the Borrower shall take the following measures:
(a) 
if any Project activity would, pursuant to the ESMF, require the carrying
out of an ESIA, no such activities shall be implemented unless:
(i) 
an ESIA for such activity has been: (A) prepared and adequately
consulted upon, in accordance with the ESMF and furnished to the
Bank for review and approval; (B) disclosed locally as required
by the ESMF; and (C) approved by the Bank and publicly
disclosed; and
(ii) 
if said ESIA would require the preparation of an ESMP, such
ESMP has been: (A) prepared and adequately consulted upon, in
accordance with such ESIA and furnished to the Bank;
(B) disclosed locally as required by the ESMF; and (C) approved
by the Bank and publicly disclosed;
(b) 
if any Project activity would, pursuant to the RPF, require the preparation
of a RAP, no such activities shall be implemented unless:
(i) 
a RAP for such activities has been: (A) prepared and adequately
consulted upon, in accordance with the requirements of the RPF
and furnished to the Bank for review and approval; (B) disclosed
as required by the RPF; and (C) approved by the Bank and
publicly disclosed; and
- 15 -
(ii) 
(A) all measures required to be taken under said RAP prior to the
initiation of said activities have been taken, including, without
limitation to the above, providing funds for resettlement
compensation when and if required under a RAP; (B) a report, in
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, on the status of
compliance with the requirements of said RAP has been prepared
and furnished to the Bank; and (C) the Bank has confirmed that
said activities may be commenced.
3. 
Without limitation upon its other reporting obligations under this Agreement, the
Borrower shall regularly collect, compile and submit to the Bank as part of the
Project Reports, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, reports on the
status of compliance with the Safeguards Instruments, giving details of:
(a) measures taken in furtherance of such Safeguards Instruments; (b) conditions,
if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the smooth implementation of
such Safeguards Instruments; and (c) remedial measures taken or required to be
taken to address such conditions.
4. 
The Borrower shall afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to review and
exchange views with the Borrower on the reports prepared under paragraph 3
immediately above, and thereafter, shall carry out, or cause to be carried out, with
due diligence, all remedial measures agreed with the Bank so as to ensure the
proper implementation of the Project in accordance with the Safeguards
Instruments.
5. 
The Borrower shall not amend, suspend, abrogate or waive, or permit to be
amended, suspended, abrogated or waived, any Safeguards Instrument, or any
provision thereof without the prior written agreement of the Bank.
6. 
In the event of a conflict between the provisions of any of the Safeguards
Instruments and the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement
shall prevail.
7. 
The Borrower shall ensure that all terms of reference for any technical assistance
and studies to be carried out under the Project are prepared in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank and consistent with the Bank's environmental and social
safeguards policies.
Section II. 
Proiect Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1 .
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project
- 16-
Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to
the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by
such report.
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than three (3) months after the Closing Date.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1 .
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of
each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering
the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower.
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
4. 
The Borrower shall update, not later than three (3) months after Effective Date, its
financial management and accounting system to incorporate the Project.
5. 
The Borrower shall recruit, not later than six (6) months after the Effective Date,
an external auditor with qualifications, experience and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with the provisions of Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
C. 
Mid-Term Review
1. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
no later than twenty-four (24) months after the Effective Date, carry out
jointly with the Bank a mid-term review of the progress made in carrying
out the Project. As part of the midterm review, the Borrower and the Bank
shall review a report prepared and submitted by the PIU three (3) months
in advance of the mid-term review;
(b) 
assess, during the mid-term review, inter alia: (i) the overall progress made
during the implementation of the Project; and (ii) the results of the
monitoring and evaluation activities; and
- 17-
(c) 
No later than thirty (30) days after the completion of the mid-term review,
start to implement the recommendations of the mid-term review as agreed
with the Bank.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
I. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
I. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive
Bidding ("NCB"), subject to the additional provisions referred to in paragraph 3
below; (b) Shopping; (c) Direct Contracting; and (d) Community Participation
procedures which have been found acceptable to the Bank.
3. 
Additional Provisions for National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
General. The procedures followed for NCB shall be those set forth in Lei
No. 20/10 da Contrataqdo Publica of September 7, 2010 ("Law") of the
- 18 -
laws of the Borrower, with the modifications described in the following
paragraphs.
(b) 
Eligibility. The eligibility of bidders shall be as defined under Section I of
the Procurement Guidelines; accordingly, no bidder or potential bidder
shall be declared ineligible for contracts financed by the Bank for reasons
other than those provided in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines.
Bidding shall not be restricted to domestic bidders. No restriction based
on nationality of bidders and/or origin of the goods shall apply other than
those imposed by primary boycotts as contemplated in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines. Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate in
NCB without restriction and shall not be subject to any unjustified
requirement that will affect their ability to participate in the bidding
process such as, but not limited to, the submission of evidence of good
standing in terms of taxes paid to the Angolan government and in terms of
social security contributions made in Angola.
(c) 
Prior registration or obtaining a license or authorization shall not be a
requirement for any bidder to participate in the bidding process.
(d) 
Government-owned enterprises or institutions of the Borrower shall be
eligible to participate in the bidding process only if they can establish that
they are legally and financially autonomous, operate under commercial
law, and are not dependent agencies of the Borrower or Sub-Borrower.
(e) 
Bidding Documents. Standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank
shall be used.
(f) 
Participation by Joint Ventures. Participation shall be allowed from
joint ventures on condition that such joint venture partners will be jointly
and severally liable for their obligations under the Contract.
(g) 
Preferences. No domestic/regional preference, or any other kind of
preferential treatment, shall be given for domestic/regional bidders, and/or
for 
domestically/regionally 
manufactured 
goods, 
and/or 
for
domestically/regionally originated related services.
(h) 
Applicable 
Procurement Method. 
Subject to these 
provisions,
procurement shall be carried out in accordance with the "Public
Competitive Bidding" method (Concurso Publico) set forth in the Law.
(i) 
Qualification. Qualification criteria shall entirely concern the bidder's
capability and resources to perform the contract taking into account
objective and measurable factors. The qualification criteria shall be clearly
specified in the bidding documents, and all criteria so specified, and only
- 19-
such criteria so specified shall be used to determine whether a bidder is
qualified. Qualification criteria shall be assessed on a "pass or fail" basis,
and merit points shall not be used. Bidders' qualifications shall be assessed
by post-qualification and such an assessment shall be conducted separately
from the technical and commercial evaluation of the bids.
(j) 
Advertisement. A shorter version of the advertisement text, including the
minimum relevant information, may be published in a national newspaper
of wide circulation provided that the full text is simultaneously published
in the official gazette (Didrio da Republica) or on a widely used website
or electronic portal with free national and international access.
(k) 
Bid Preparation Time. Bidders shall be given at least twenty-eight (28)
days from the date of the invitation to bid or the date of availability of
bidding documents, whichever is later, to prepare and submit bids.
(1) 
Bids Submission and Bid Opening. Bids may be submitted by electronic
means only provided that the Bank is satisfied with the adequacy of the
system, including inter alia that the system is secure, maintains the
integrity, confidentiality, and authenticity of the bids submitted, and uses
an electronic signature system or equivalent to keep bidders bound to their
bids.
(m) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for their
submission in accordance with the procedures stated in the bidding
documents. The public bid opening shall take place in only one session.
At the public bid opening, the names of the bidders and the total amount
of each bid, and of any alternative bids if they have been requested or
permitted, shall be read aloud and recorded when opened. Bids shall not
be evaluated as part of the bid opening process, and no bid shall be rejected
during the public bid opening session, except for late bids. Bidders shall
not be allowed to complete their bids after the deadline for submission of
bids has expired.
(n) 
Bid Validity. No automatic extension of the bid validity shall apply. If
justified by exceptional circumstances, an extension of the bid validity
may be requested in writing from all bidders before the original bid
validity expiration date and it shall cover only the minimum period
required to complete the evaluation and award of the contract. The
extension of the bid validity requires the Bank's no objection for those
contracts subject to prior review.
(o) 
Bid Evaluation
- 20 -
(i) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the
evaluation criteria declared in the bidding documents. Evaluation
criteria other than price shall be quantified in monetary terms and
the manner in which they will be applied for the purpose of
determining the lowest evaluated bid shall be established in the
bidding documents. A weighting/scoring system shall not be used.
(ii) 
A contract shall be awarded to the qualified bidder offering the
lowest-evaluated 
and 
substantially 
responsive 
bid. 
No
negotiations shall be permitted.
(iii) 
Bidders shall not be eliminated on the basis of minor, non-
substantial deviations.
(iv) 
Requests for clarification and the bidder's responses shall be made
in writing and they shall not be notified to other bidders.
(v) 
After the public opening of bids, information relating to the
examination, 
clarification, 
and 
evaluation 
of bids 
and
recommendations concerning the awards shall not be disclosed to
bidders or other persons not officially concerned with this process
until publication of the award of the contract.
(p) 
Rejection of All Bids and Re-bidding. All bids shall not be rejected, the
procurement process shall not be cancelled, and new bids shall not be
solicited without the Bank's prior concurrence.
(q) 
Securities. Bid securities shall not exceed three percent (3%) of the
estimated cost of the contract; and performance securities shall not exceed
ten percent (10%) of the contract price. The successful bidder shall be
given at least fifteen (15) days from the receipt of notification of contract
award to submit a performance security. No advance payment shall be
made without a suitable advance payment security.
(r) 
Publication of Contract Award. Information on contract award shall be
published at least in a national newspaper of wide circulation within two
(2) 
weeks of receiving the Bank's no objection to the award
recommendation for contracts subject to prior review, and within two (2)
weeks from the award decision for contracts subject to post review.
Publication shall include the following information: (i) the name of each
bidder which submitted a bid; (ii) bid prices as read out at bid opening;
(iii) evaluated prices of each bid that was evaluated; (iv) the names of
bidders whose bids were rejected and the reasons for their rejection, and
(v) the name of the winning bidder, the final total contract price, and the
duration and summary scope of the contract.
-21 
-
(s) 
Complaints by Bidders and Handling of Complaints. The Borrower
shall establish an effective and independent protest mechanism allowing
bidders to protest and to have their protest handled in a timely manner.
(t) 
Contract and Contract Modifications. Contracts shall be in writing and
the bid of the successful bidder shall become part of the Contract
documents without any modification introduced by the contracting
authority. In the case of contracts subject to prior review, the Bank's no
objection shall be obtained before agreeing to: (i) a material extension of
the stipulated time for performance of a contract; (ii) any substantial
modification of the scope of services or other significant changes to the
terms and conditions of the contract; (iii) any variation order or
amendment (except in cases of extreme urgency) which, singly or
combined with all variation orders or amendments previously issued,
increases the original contract amount by more than fifteen percent (15%);
or (iv) the proposed termination of the contract. A copy of all contract
amendments shall be furnished to the Bank for its record;
(u) 
Right to Inspect/Audit. In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines,
each bidding document and contract financed from the proceeds of the
Loan shall provide that bidders, suppliers, and contractors, and their sub-
contractors, agents, personnel, consultants, service providers or suppliers,
shall permit the Bank, at its request, to inspect their accounts, records and
other documents relating to the submission of bids and contract
performance, and to have them audited by auditors appointed by the Bank.
Acts intended to materially impede the exercise of the Bank's inspection
and audit rights constitute an obstructive practice as defined in the
Procurement Guidelines.
(v) 
Fraud and Corruption. In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines,
each bidding document and contract financed from the proceeds of the
Loan shall include provisions on matters pertaining to fraud and
corruption. The Bank will sanction a firm or individual, at any time, in
accordance with prevailing Bank sanctions procedures, including by
publicly declaring such firm or individual ineligible, either indefinitely or
for a stated period of time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-financed contract; and
(ii) to be a nominated subcontractor, consultant, supplier or service
provider of an otherwise eligible firm being awarded a Bank-financed
contract;
(w) 
Debarment under National System. 
The Bank may recognize, if
requested by the Borrower, exclusion from participation as a result of
debarment under the national system, provided that the debarment is for
offenses involving fraud, corruption or similar misconduct, and further
- 22 -
provided that the Bank confirms that the particular debarment process
afforded due process and the debarment decision is final.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following
methods, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; 
(d) 
Selection based on Consultants'
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Well-
established Private Sector Procurement Methods or Commercial Practices which
have been found acceptable to the Bank; (g) Selection of United Nations Agencies;
(h) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for
the Selection of Individual Consultants; and (i) Single-source procedures for the
Selection of Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised
from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant
to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
- 23 -
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, non-consulting 
10,000,000 
100%
services, consultants'
services and Training
for Part A.1 of the
Project
(2) Goods, works, non- 
9,000,000 
100%
consulting services,
consultants' services,
Operating Costs and
Training for Part A.2
of the Project
(3) Goods, works, non- 
100%
consulting services,
consultants' services, 
4,000,000
Operating Costs and
Training for Part A.3
of the Project
(4) Non-consulting 
7,000,000 
100%
services and
consultants' services
for Part B.1 of the
Project
(5) Matching Grants under 
30,000,000 
100% of amounts
Part B.2 of the Project 
disbursed by the Borrower
under the Matching Grant
(6) Goods, works, non- 
9,825,000 
100%
consulting services,
consultants' services,
Operating Costs and
Training for Part C of
the Project
- 24 -
(7) Front-end Fee 
175,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07(b) of the
General Conditions
(8) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar 
Section 
2.08(c) 
of this
premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
$70,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
I. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2021.
- 25 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each April land October 1
Beginning October 1, 2021
Through October 1, 2034 
3.57%
On April 1, 2035 
3.61%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
to the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this
Schedule; and
(b) 
any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
- 26 -
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
- 27 -
APPENDIX
Section 1. 
Definitions
1. 
"ADI" or "Instituto de Desenvolvimento Agrario" means the Borrower's
Agricultural Development Institute within the Ministry of Agriculture, or any
successor thereto.
2. 
"Affected Person" means a person who as a result of: (i) the involuntary taking of
land under the Project is affected in any of the following ways: (A) relocation or
loss of shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources
or means of livelihood, whether or not the affected person must move to another
location; or (ii) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and
protected areas suffers adverse impacts on his or her livelihood; and "Affected
Persons" means more than one Affected Person.
3. 
"Annual Work Plan and Budget" means the work plan and budget approved by the
Bank and adopted by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of Section
1.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as said work plan and budget may be modified
from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
4. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
5. 
"Beneficiary" means a smallholder farmers' group or organization or a small rural
enterprise which has met the eligibility criteria specified in Section I.E of Schedule
2 to this Agreement and in the Project Implementation Manual and, as a result, has
been extended, or is to be extended, a Matching Grant for the carrying out of
activities under Part B.2 of the Project; and "Beneficiaries" means more than one
such Beneficiary.
6. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
7. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
8. 
"Environmental and Social Impact Assessment" or "ESIA" means each site
specific environmental and social assessment to be prepared by the Borrower
pursuant to the ESMF, in each case identifying and assessing the potential
environmental and social impacts of a proposed Project activity, evaluating
alternatives, and designing appropriate mitigation, management, and monitoring
measures, including procedures to ensure the safety of new and existing dams, as
- 28 -
the same may be amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of
the Bank, and such term includes any schedules to such document; and
"Environmental and Social Impact Assessments" or "ESIAs" mean more than one
such assessment.
9. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the
environmental and social management framework disclosed on December 11,
2015, in the Borrower's territory, and on December 16, 2015, in the Bank's
InfoShop, adopted by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank, setting forth the
modalities for environmental and social screening, and outlining environmental
and social implementation, mitigation and monitoring measures and procedures,
including procedures for the preparation and implementation of ESIAs and
ESMPs, and procedures to ensure the safety of new and existing dams, as the same
may be amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank,
and such term includes any schedules to such document.
10. 
"Environmental and Social Management Plan" or "ESMP" means each site
specific environmental and social management plan to be prepared by the
Borrower pursuant to the ESMF, in each case setting forth appropriate mitigation,
monitoring and institutional measures designed to mitigate the potential adverse
environmental and social impacts of a proposed Project activity, offset them,
reduce them to acceptable levels, or enhance positive impacts, including
procedures to ensure the safety of new and existing dams, as the same may be
amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such
term includes any schedules to such document; and "Environmental and Social
Management Plans" and "ESMPs" mean more than one such plan.
I1. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
12. 
"IIA" or "Instituto de Investigacao Agrario" means the Borrower's Agricultural
Research Institute, or any successor thereto.
13. 
"Integrated Pest Management Framework" or "IPMF" means the integrated pest
management plan disclosed on December 11, 2015, in the Borrower's territory,
and on December 16, 2015, in the Bank's InfoShop, adopted by the Borrower and
acceptable to the Bank, setting forth mitigation, enhancement, monitoring, and
institutional measures for integrated pest management and the safe handling of
pesticides under activities to be implemented under the Project, and for minimizing
any potential related adverse impacts, as the same may be amended from time to
time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any
schedules or annexes to such document.
- 29 -
14. 
"Matching Grant" means a grant made or proposed to be made out of the proceeds
of the Loan to a Beneficiary, for the purpose of a Subproject under Part B.2 of the
Project, as described in Section I.E of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and in more
detail in the Project Implementation Manual; and "Matching Grants" means more
than one such Matching Grant.
15. 
"Matching Grant Agreement" means an agreement entered, or to be entered, into
between the Borrower and a Beneficiary, in accordance with the provisions of
Section LE of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, providing for a Matching Grant; and
"Matching Grant Agreements" means more than one such agreement.
16. 
"Ministry of Agriculture" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for
agriculture, or any successor thereto.
17. 
"Operating Costs" means the incremental expenses incurred on account of Project
implementation, based on Annual Work Plans and Budgets approved by the Bank
pursuant to Section LC of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, including office supplies,
vehicle operation and maintenance, communication and insurance costs, office
administration costs, utilities, travel and per diem related to supervision of the
Project, excluding salaries of the Borrower's civil servants.
1 8. 
"Participating Province" means one of the following provinces in the Borrower's
territory participating in the Project: Bie, Huambo or Malanje; and "Participating
Provinces" means, collectively, all of said provinces.
19. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
20. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
April 20, 2016, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines
and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
21. 
"Project Coordination Committee" or "PCC" means the project coordination
committee referred to in Section 1.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
22. 
"Project Implementation Manual" means the manual acceptable to the Bank,
referred to in Section LB of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as may be amended
from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term
includes any schedules and annexes to the said manual.
23. 
"Project 
Implementation Sub-Committee" 
or "PISC" means the project
implementation sub-committee referred to in Section I.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
- 30 -
24. 
",Project Implementation Unit" or "PIU" means the project implementation unit
within ADI referred to in Section I.A.4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
25. 
"Provincial Project Coordination Committee" or "PPCC" means a provincial
project coordination committee referred to in Section I.A.5 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement; and "Provincial Project Coordination Committees" or "PPCCs" means
more than one such PPCC.
26. 
"Provincial Project Implementation Sub-Committee" or "PPISC" means a
provincial project implementation sub-committee referred to in Section I.A.6 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and "Provincial Project Implementation Sub-
Committees" or "PPISCs" means more than one such PPISC.
27. 
"Provincial Project Implementation Unit" or "PPlU" means a provincial project
implementation unit referred to in Section I.A.7 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
and "Provincial Project Implementation Units" or "PPIUs" means more than one
such PPIU.
28. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" or "RAP" means, for a given Project activity, the
resettlement action plan for said activity, to be prepared by the Borrower in
accordance with the RPF, and describing the compensation and other resettlement
assistance to be provided, consultation to be conducted with Affected Persons
about acceptable alternatives, institutional responsibilities for the implementation
and procedures for grievance redress, and arrangements for monitoring and
evaluation, as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior written
agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any schedules to such document;
and "Resettlement Action Plans" and "RAPs" mean more than one such plan.
29. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the resettlement policy
framework disclosed on December 16, 2015, in the Borrower's territory, and on
December 21, 2015 in the Bank's InfoShop, adopted by the Borrower and
acceptable to Bank, containing guidelines, procedures, timetables and other
specifications for the provision of compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement
assistance to Affected Persons, and for the preparation and implementation of
RAPs, as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior written
agreement of the Bank, and such term includes all schedules to such document.
30. 
"Safeguards Instruments" means, collectively, the ESMF, ESIAs, ESMPs, IPMF,
RPF, and RAPs; and "Safeguards Instrument" means any one of such instruments.
31. 
"Subproject" means a set of activities to be carried out under Part B.2 of the
Project, in accordance with the requirements of the Project Implementation Manual
referred to in Section L.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and "Subprojects"
means more than one such Sub-project.
32. 
"Training" means the cost associated with training, workshops and study tours,
based on Annual Work Plans and Budgets approved by the Bank pursuant to
Section L.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, for reasonable expenditures required
to carry out training activities (other than expenditures for consultants' services),
including: (a) travel, room, board and per diem expenditures incurred by trainers
and trainees in connection with their training and by non-consultant training
facilitators; (b) course fees; (c) training facility rentals; and (d) training material
preparation, acquisition, reproduction and distribution expenses.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1 .
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
-Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"1l9. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.0 1(a).
- 32 -
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any
prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of
a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable
upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any
Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
