OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8653-TR
Loan Agreement
(Geothermal Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.$.
Dated NPvz- A;e 30 
,2016
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8653-TR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
Aovetilos. 
30 
,2016, between
the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
("Bank") and TORKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.$. ("BORROWER"). The
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred fifty million United
States Dollars (US$150,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to
time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section
2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing Part B of the project
described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the
-2-
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency;
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa;
or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Reference Rate and the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based
on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable Spread, or vice versa;
or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate
applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest
Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the
Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05(c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out Part B of the Project in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that Part B of the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following:
The Borrower has approved the Project Operations Manual, acceptable to
the Bank.
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Executive Vice President of the Borrower.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Tarkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi A.$.
Meclisi Mebusan Caddesi
No. 81
34427 Findiklh,
Istanbul
Turkey
Facsimile:
(90-212) 334-5234
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
-4-
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at Ankara and Istanbul, Republic of Turkey, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By:
Authorized Representative
Name: 
J0VAAVLaj
Title: 
Pt rtAm
TURKlYE SINAI KAL 
AB 
KASI A.$.
By:
Authorized Representative
Na m e: 2 
,A- 
C
Title: 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_
By:
Authorized Representative
Name: 
QCE\ 
-
Title: 
f:N P
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to scale up private sector investment in geothermal
energy development in the Republic of Turkey's territory.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: 
Risk Sharing Mechanism for Resource Validation
1. 
Risk Sharing Mechanism for Resource Validation - establishing a mechanism to
promote private sector development of renewable geothermal energy investments in the
early stage of geothermal exploratory and confirmation drilling stages ("Exploration Sub-
projects") by sharing the risk with Geothermal Explorers of failing to validate a geothermal
energy resource through said Risk Sharing Mechanism.
2. 
Technical Assistance for TKB - strengthening capacity of TKB to supervise
implementation of the RSM.
Part B: 
Loan Facility for Resource Development
Providing financing to Geothermal Developers to support license holders and
financiers investing in geothermal project development at: (i) the capacity/production
drilling stage; and (ii) the steam gathering, power plant, or direct use facility construction
stage ("Development Sub-projects").
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section 1. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
I. 
For purposes of carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall operate and
maintain, until the completion of the Project, its Project Implementation Unit with
functions, responsibilities, and adequate staffing and budgetary resources
necessary and appropriate for implementation of Part B of the Project, all
satisfactory to the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower shall carry out Part B of the Project in accordance with the relevant
provisions of the Project Operations Manual and shall not assign, amend, abrogate,
terminate, waive, or fail to enforce any provisions of the POM without obtaining
the prior approval of the Bank.
B. 
Sub-project Financing
For the purposes of carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall, in
accordance with the POM and the provisions set forth below:
I. 
Determine the eligibility of Geothermal Developers;
2. 
Determine the eligibility of Development Sub-projects;
3. 
Enter into a Sub-project Financing Agreement with each Geothermal Developer
for eligible Development Sub-projects;
4. 
Exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each Sub-project Financing
Agreement in such manner as to protect its interests and the interests of the
Guarantor and the Bank;
5. 
Not, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, amend, waive or fail to enforce any
provisions concerning the ESMF or the RPF of any Sub-project Financing
Agreement; and
6. 
Supervise, monitor and report on the carrying out of Development Sub-projects.
Eligibility of Geothermal Developers
7. 
Ensure that each Geothermal Developer has established, to the satisfaction of the
Bank, that:
-7-
(a) 
It is a private enterprise where more than fifty percent (50%) of the shares
or other equity interest thereof is held by persons or companies other than
the Borrower, any agency or subdivision thereof, or any local
governmental authority, or any entities controlled by the Borrower or such
agencies or subdivisions;
(b) 
It has: (i) a satisfactory financial, organizational and management
structure; and (ii) adequate staff and financial and other resources required
for the efficient carrying out of its operations, including the pertinent
Development Sub-project;
(c) 
It has the required certificates and licenses from the Guarantor's relevant
local or national authorities with respect to compliance with applicable
environmental laws and regulations of the Guarantor; and
(d) 
It has not already entered into Sub-project Financing Agreements for two
Sub-projects financed by the Borrower pursuant to this Loan Agreement.
Development Sub-project Eligibility
8. 
Ensure that prior to the approval of a Development Sub-project, the pertinent
Geothermal Developer has established to the satisfaction of the Bank and, on the
basis of an appraisal carried out in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Bank, that:
(a) 
the pertinent Development Sub-project is technically feasible and
economically, financially, commercially and environmentally viable;
(b) 
the pertinent Development Sub-project is in compliance with all
requirements pertaining to environmental protection applicable under the
Guarantor's laws and regulations and the ESMF, including the preparation
of: (i) an acceptable environmental management plan in accordance with
the ESMF; and (ii) if applicable, an acceptable RAP in accordance with
the RPF;
(c) 
the total amount of the Development Sub-project Financing in respect of
the one or two Development Sub-projects to the same Geothermal
Developer is less than eighty million Dollars (US$80,000,000) in the
aggregate;
(d) 
the total amount of any one Development Sub-project is less than sixty
million Dollars (US$60,000,000); and
(e) 
no more than sixty percent (60%) of the proceeds of the Loan are provided
to Development Sub-projects involving net CO 2 emissions expected to be
-8-
above the 2014 Grid Emission Factor of 583 g/kWh, unless the Bank
agrees otherwise.
9. 
Obtain approval of the Bank for the first two (2) Development Sub-projects.
Sub-project Financing Agreement
10. 
Upon approval of any given Development Sub-project, the Borrower shall on-lend
a portion of the Loan (the "Development Sub-project Financing") to the pertinent
Geothermal Developer pursuant to a Sub-project Financing Agreement, to be
entered into between the Borrower and said Geothermal Developer on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank, including the following provisions:
(a) 
The obligation of the Geothermal Developer to:
(i) 
be charged interest on the principal amount of the Development
Sub-project Financing that has been withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time, at such a rate as may be determined by the
Borrower on the basis of its assessment of market conditions and
risk management;
(ii) 
carry out and operate the facilities financed by the Development
Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance
with sound technical, financial and managerial standards, and in
accordance with the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to
recipients of loan proceeds other than the immediate beneficiary,
and to maintain adequate records;
(iii) 
carry out and operate the facilities financed by the Development
Sub-project with due regard to applicable social impact,
ecological, environmental and pollution control standards and in
accordance with the POM, the ESMF, the applicable EMP, and
the RPF and RAP, if applicable;
(iv) 
carry out any procurement for the Development Sub-project in
accordance with the provisions of Section III of this Schedule; and
(v) 
provide annual reports of CO 2 emissions from its Development
Sub-project to the Borrower and the Bank, satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Bank.
(b) 
The repayment schedule for the repayment by the Geothermal Developer
of the Sub-project Financing shall be for no less than eight (8) years. If,
however, the use of the Sub-project Financing shall include the purchase
of equipment to capture CO 2 emissions, the repayment schedule for the
-9-
repayment by the Geothermal Developer of the Sub-project Financing
shall be for no less than ten (10) years.
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain the right to inspect, by itself or jointly with
representatives of the Bank, if the Bank so requests, such goods, sites,
works, plants and construction included in the Development Sub-project,
the operation thereof, and any relevant documents and records of the
Geothermal Developer or its contractors or consultants.
(d) 
The Borrower shall establish a separate account, in accordance with
policies and procedures satisfactory to the Bank, in which it shall deposit
and record the repayments of principal and interest by the Geothermal
Developer under the pertinent Development Sub-project Financing.
(e) 
The Geothermal Developer shall take out and maintain insurance with
responsible insurers, satisfactory to the Bank, against such risks and in
such amounts as shall be consistent with sound business practices.
Without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover
hazards incident to the Development Sub-project activities.
(f) 
The Geothermal Developer shall maintain a financial management system
and prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied
accounting standards, subject to audit by the Borrower and the Bank.
(g) 
The Borrower shall retain the right to suspend or terminate the right of the
Geothermal Developer to receive financing from the Borrower upon
failure by the Geothermal Developer to perform its obligations under its
Sub-project Financing Agreement.
(h) 
The Geothermal Developer shall agree that the Borrower may provide to
the Bank and the Bank may disclose to the public the location and nature
of the Development Sub-project and the date on which Development Sub-
project activities started and were completed.
11. 
The Borrower shall provide financing from its own resources for Part B of the
Project in an amount equivalent to no less than twenty-five percent (25%) of the
total Loan amount.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that Part B of the Project is carried out in accordance
with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
- 10-
D. 
Safeguards
The Borrower shall ensure that Part B of the Project is carried out in accordance
with the ESMF and the RPF, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
2. 
Prior to effectiveness of a Sub-project Financing Agreement, the Borrower shall
ensure that the relevant Geothermal Developer:
(a) 
prepares a site-specific Environmental Management Plan in accordance
with the ESMF, including disclosure and public consultation, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b) 
prepares a Resettlement Action Plan in accordance with the RPF,
including disclosure and public consultation, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
During implementation of each Development Sub-project, the Borrower shall
ensure that the relevant Geothermal Developer implements the Development Sub-
project in accordance with the applicable EMP and RAP, in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank.
4. 
The Borrower shall: (a) include in each Project Report referred to in Section II,
Part A, paragraph I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, specific information
concerning the implementation status of the EMPs and any RAP, including any
corrective action to be taken therein by the Borrower and/or the Geothermal
Developer; and (b) immediately thereafter, implement or cause the Geothermal
Developer to implement said corrective action in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
5. 
The Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the ESMF or the RPF or
any provision thereof, and shall ensure that each Geothermal Developer does not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive its EMP and, if applicable, the corresponding
RAP, without the prior approval of the Bank.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1 .
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of Part B of the Project
(including progress in the implementation of the ESMF, EMPs, RPF, and RAPs
referred to in Section 1, Part D, paragraph 4 of this Schedule 2) and prepare Project
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to
the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by
such report.
- II -
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph I above, the Borrower shall also
include in the Project Report, basic information relating to each Development Sub-
project approved for financing under Part B of the Project, including the location
and nature of the Development Sub-project, and the date on which Development
Sub-project activities started and were completed. 
Additionally, the Borrower
agrees that the Bank may disclose the foregoing information to the public.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1 .
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial
reports for Part B of the Project covering the semester, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have:
(a) 
the Financial Statements for Part B of the Project audited in accordance
with the provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each
audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year
of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end
of such period; and
(b) 
its entity financial statements audited in accordance with standards set
forth in Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of such
entity financial statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the
Borrower and be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after
the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1 .
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set
forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the
provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for Part B of the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance
- 12-
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections 11 and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, Ill, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works, Non-consulting
Services and Consultants' Services
Well-established 
Private Sector Procurement Methods or Commercial
Practices. Contracts for goods, works, non-consulting services and consultants'
service under each Development Sub-project shall be awarded in accordance with
the well-established private sector procurement methods or commercial practices
which have been found acceptable to the Bank and described in the POM.
C. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
All contracts procured under each Development Sub-project shall be subject to
Post Review by the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised
from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant
to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
- 13 -
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Category 
Allocated 
Expenditures
(expressed in 
to be financed
Dollars) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non- 
149,625,000 
100%
consulting services and
consultants' services under
Development Sub-projects
(2) Front-end Fee 
375,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07(b) of the
General Conditions
(3) Interest Rate Cap or 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar 
Section 2.08(c) of this
premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
I. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed thirty million Dollars
(US$30,000,000) may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after
the date twelve (12) months prior to the date of this Agreement, for Eligible
Expenditures under Category (1).
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2022.
- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; and (b) by the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date,
such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred
to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Installment 
Share
Principal Payment DateIntlmtShr
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each March 15 and September 15 
2.38%
Beginning March 15, 2024
through March 15, 2044
On September 15, 2044 
2.42%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
-15 -
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of 
such
sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the
adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
- 16-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
3. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
4. 
"CTF Grant Agreement" means the agreement between TKB and the Bank, acting
as an implementing agency of the Clean Technology Fund, to assist in the
financing of Part A of the Project.
5. 
"Development Sub-project" means any investment in the development of
geothermal energy resources which has met the criteria set forth in the POM for
benefitting from financing under Part B of this Project.
6. 
"Development Sub-project Financing" means a loan made or to be made by the
Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to a Geothermal Developer to finance
the carrying out of a Development Sub-project.
7. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the
environmental and social management framework prepared by the Borrower and
disclosed on August 12, 2016, acceptable to the World Bank, which sets forth
policies and procedures for environmental and social screening of Sub-projects,
for conducting environmental assessments and specifying requirements for
environmental mitigation measures to be included in EMPs, and lists the
international aquifers and eligible list of river basins in Turkey.
8. 
"Environmental Management Plan" or "EMP" means a site-specific environmental
management 
plan 
comprised of an environmental 
mitigation 
plan and
environmental monitoring plan to be prepared and adopted by a Geothermal
Developer pursuant to the EMF and to be implemented by the Geothermal
Developer in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2, Section 1, Part D,
paragraph 2 of this Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, wherein are set forth
specific details of measures to manage identified or potential environmental risks
and to mitigate, reduce and/or offset adverse environmental impacts associated
with the implementation of activities under Part B of the Project, together with an
environmental 
and social baseline for each site, details of the relevant
- 17-
environmental legislative framework, adequate institutional, monitoring and
reporting arrangements capable of ensuring proper implementation of, and regular
feedback on compliance with, its terms, as the same may be amended and
supplemented from time to time with the Bank's prior written approval.
9. 
"Exploration Sub-project" means any exploration of geothermal energy resources
investment which has met the criteria set forth in the POM for benefitting from the
RSM under Part A of this Project.
10. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
11. 
"Geothermal Developer" means any private developer of renewable geothermal
energy which has met the criteria set forth in the POM to carry out a Development
Sub-project.
12. 
"Geothermal Explorer" means any private developer of renewable geothermal
energy which has met the criteria set forth in the POM to carry out an Exploration
Sub-project.
13. 
"Grid Emission Factor" means a combination of the emission levels of power
plants both in existence and under construction.
14. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
15. 
"Project Operations Manual" or "POM" means the project operations manual,
satisfactory to the World Bank, describing and setting forth procedures for
implementation of the Project and related institutional arrangements, and
including, inter alia, timetables of actions required to be carried out under the
Project, the respective roles and responsibilities of the agencies involved in the
implementation of the Project, staffing, the fiduciary, technical and operational
aspects and procedures for implementation of the Project, including the financial
management procedures (budgeting, accounting and internal control, disbursement
and flow of funds, financial reporting, annual reports, internal and external audit
arrangements procedures and including the Project specific chart of accounts),
procurement procedures, monitoring and evaluation arrangements, and other
fiduciary and administrative arrangements and necessary terms of reference, as the
same may be amended from time to time by agreement with the World Bank.
16. 
"Resettlement" means the impacts of an involuntary taking of land under the
Project, which taking causes affected persons to have their: (i) standard of living
adversely affected; (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises,
- 18-
agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or
possessed, temporarily or permanently; (iii) access to productive assets adversely
affected, temporarily or permanently; or (iv) business, occupation, work or place
of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily or permanently.
17. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" or "RAP" means a resettlement action plan,
satisfactory to the Bank, to be prepared in accordance with the RPF and
implemented by the applicable Geothermal Developer for carrying out the
corresponding Development Sub-project, setting forth, inter alia, the principles
and objectives, the affected persons' eligibility criteria, compensation, assistance
and rehabilitation entitlements, as well as the monitoring and reporting
arrangements.
1 8. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the resettlement policy
framework prepared by the Borrower and disclosed on September 6, 2016,
satisfactory to the Bank, and defining the modalities for Resettlement under the
Project and describing the policies, procedures, plans and actions (including the
guidelines for the preparation and implementation of resettlement action plans),
and institutional measures related to Resettlement and other social impacts that
may arise during the implementation of the Project.
19. 
"Risk Sharing Mechanism" or "RSM" means the mechanism created under Part A
of the Project.
20. 
"Sub-project Financing Agreement" means an agreement referenced in paragraph
10 of Schedule 2, Section 1, Part B, whereby the Borrower on-lends a portion of
the Loan to a Geothermal Developer.
21. 
"Tirkiye Kalkinma Bankasi A.$." or "TKB" means a joint-stock company
established pursuant to the statutes published in Official Gazette No. 23849 dated
October 17, 1999 (Trade Registry No. 32345), or any legal successor thereto.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
- 19-
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
(60) days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which
amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any
prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of
a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable
upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any
Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
