OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8683-IQ
Loan Agreement
(Modernization of Public Financial Management Systems Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF IRAQ
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
4, 
201
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8683-IQ
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated O 
bUtDY,1 
4 201C between REPUBLIC OF IRAQ
("Borrower") 
and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE H -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of forty-one million five hundred
thousand Dollars ($41,500,000), as such amount may be converted from time to
time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section
2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by. the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a. Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.
-2-
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05(c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall carry out Part 1 of the Project through MoF, Part 2 of the Project
through MoP and cause the Kurdistan Region to carry out Part 3 of the Project
through KRG MoP, all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions.
-3-
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -EFFECTIVENESS; 
TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The Project Steering Committee has been established by the Borrower in
accordance with Section I.A. 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(b) 
The Project Management Teams have been established by the Borrower
and KRG respectively in accordance with Sections I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
(c) 
The Project Operational Manual has been prepared by the Borrower in
accordance with Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its minister responsible for finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Hay Alaloom
Bab Al Mu'dham
Baghdad, Iraq
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at Washington D.C., United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF IRAQ
By
/ &orized Representative
Name: 
, 
&AxVV'1j V 
1 " ,
Title: 
d
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name:
Title: 
V/~~&
4  
A
PU~e6&'
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve financial information management and
transparency, cash management, public investment management and public procurement
modernization at selected federal and governorate agencies.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Public Financial Management
Carrying out of a comprehensive program of technical assistance and related support
required for:
(a) 
(i) The development and implementation of an IFMIS, including planning,
project management, installation (including minor indoor renovations of
MoF's existing data center and data recovery center, and establishing last-
mile connections between end-user office buildings and the Borrower's
central network backbone), configuration, technical support, and roll out in
selected ministries and the Targeted Governorates; and (ii) provision of
training to end-users and change management support to facilitate the
transition to the said IFMIS.
(b) 
Capacity building for PFM to strengthen budget and financial management
practices (including budget formulation and execution and financial
accounting and reporting), through inter alia: (i) the development and
implementation of a capacity development strategy; and (ii) the provision of
training and change management support.
(c) 
Strengthening the internal audit function within MoF, including through the
carrying out of an audit risk assessment, the development of strategic audit
plans, and the execution of audit engagements.
(d) 
Strengthening of PFM systems in the Targeted Governorates, including
through reinforcing accountability mechanisms; strengthening planning,
budgeting, accounting, controls, reporting and procurement systems; and
developing budget execution and monitoring systems.
(e) 
The provision of support to MoF for Project implementation and
management, 
including 
procurement, 
financial management, 
and
coordination.
-6-
Part 2: Public Investment Management and Public Procurement at the Federal Level
Carrying out of a comprehensive program of technical assistance and related support
required for:
(a) 
The modernization and strengthening of the PIM system at the federal level,
including through: (i) the carrying out of a capacity needs assessment for
MoP; (ii) PIM capacity building for MoP staff and relevant government
stakeholders; (iii) updating and improving project appraisal methodologies
and guidelines, 
including 
instructions, 
guidelines 
and 
templates;
(iv) development of a framework for ex-post project evaluation;
(v) supporting the establishment of a specialized PIM unit within MoP;
(vi) development of an integrated bank of investment projects, to support
investment planning and decision making, to track and monitor investments,
and to serve as an investment project registry; (vii) updating and
strengthening the Borrower's legal and regulatory framework for PIM; and
(viii) developing a PIM/IDMS interface within the IFMIS developed under
Part 1 of the Project.
(b) 
The modernization and strengthening of public procurement at the federal
level, including through: (i) the development of and roll out of standard
bidding documents and framework agreements; (ii) the establishment of an
electronic 
procurement 
portal; 
and 
(iii) 
capacity 
building 
and
professionalization of the public sector procurement workforce.
(c) 
The provision of support to MoP for Project implementation and
management, 
including procurement, 
financial 
management, 
and
coordination.
Part 3: Public Investment Management and Public Procurement at the KRG Level
Carrying out of a comprehensive program of technical assistance and related support
required for:
(a) 
The modernization and strengthening of KRG's PIM system, including
through: (i) the carrying out of an efficiency and functional review of the
General Directorate of Capital Investment Budget within MoP; (ii) updating
and improving project appraisal methodologies and guidelines, including
instructions, guidelines and templates; (iii) strengthening and further
development of the KDMS including through the establishment of an
integrated bank of investment projects, to support investment planning and
decision making, to track and monitor investments, and to serve as an
investment project registry; and (iv) PIM capacity building for KRG MoP
staff.
-7-
(b) 
The modernization and strengthening of public procurement in KRG,
including through: (i) supporting the implementation of KRG's procurement
regulations, including strengthening the capacity of KRG MoP's policy unit
functions, the development of a complaints mechanism system, and
provision of training to relevant agencies; (ii) development and rollout of
standard bidding documents and framework agreements; 
(iii) the
establishment of an electronic procurement portal; and (iv) capacity building
and professionalization of the public sector procurement workforce, and
capacity building for private sector stakeholders with respect to procurement
under KRG's procurement regulatory framework.
(c) 
The provision of support to KRG MoP for Project implementation and
management, 
including procurement, 
financial 
management, 
and
coordination.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arranmements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
Project Steering Committee
The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain, throughout the period of the
implementation of the Project, a Project Steering Committee, with composition,
terms of reference and resources satisfactory to the Bank. The Project Steering
Committee shall be responsible for providing strategic guidance and ensuring
effective coordination for the Project.
2. 
Project Management Teams
(a) 
The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain throughout the period
of implementation of the Project, a Project Management Team within each
of MoF and MoP in each case under the direction of qualified management
provided with sufficient resources, and staffed with competent technical
and other personnel in adequate numbers including, inter alia, a director,
procurement officer, and a financial officer, and in the case of the PMT
under MoF, an IFMIS manger, in each case with qualifications, experience
and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause KRG to establish and thereafter maintain
throughout the period of implementation of the Project, a Project
Management Team within KRG MoP under the direction of qualified
management provided with sufficient resources, and staffed with
competent technical and other personnel in adequate numbers including,
inter alia, a director, procurement officer and a financial officer, in each
case with qualifications, experience and under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank.
(c) 
Each such PMT shall be responsible for, inter alia: implementation,
management and planning, procurement and financial management, and
reporting for: (i) Part 1 of the Project in the case of MoF, (ii) Part 2 of the
Project in the case of MoP; and (iii) Part 3 in the case of KRG MoP.
B. 
Project Operational Manual
1. 
The Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to
the Bank, a Project operational manual, containing detailed arrangements and
-9-
procedures for: (a) institutional coordination and day-to-day execution of the
Project; (b) Project budgeting, disbursement and financial management;
(c) procurement; (d) monitoring, evaluation, reporting and communication; and
(e) such other administrative, financial, technical and organizational arrangements
and procedures as shall be required for the Project.
2. 
The Borrower shall afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to review such
manual, and shall thereafter adopt such manual as shall have been approved by the
Bank ("Project Operational Manual" or "POM").
3. 
The Borrower shall, and shall cause KRG MoP to, carry out the Project in
accordance with the POM and shall not amend, abrogate, waive, or permit to be
amended, abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned, or any provision thereof,
without the prior written agreement of the Bank.
4. 
In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the POM and those of this
Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
Section H. 
Project Monitorin2 Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall (and with respect to Part 3 of the Project shall cause KRG MoP to)
monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance
with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators
acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the POM. Each Project Report shall cover the period
of one (1) calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45)
days after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
(and with respect to Part 3 of the Project shall cause KRG MoP to) prepare and
furnish to the Bank, not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar
quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
-10-
3. 
The Borrower shall (and with respect to Part 3 of the Project shall cause KRG MoP
to) have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements
shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial
Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six
(6) months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1 .
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1 .
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International, may be used for
procurement of goods and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) Limited International Bidding; (b) National Competitive
Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set forth in paragraph 3 below;
(c) Shopping; (d) procurement under Framework Agreements in accordance with
procedures which have been found acceptable to the Bank; and (e) Direct
Contracting.
-11-
3. 
Additional Provisions for National Competitive Bidding. The following
additional provisions shall apply to the procurement of goods, works and non-
consulting services through National Competitive Bidding:
(a) 
Standard bidding documents approved by the Bank shall be used.
(b) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one (1) widely circulated
national daily newspaper and bidding documents shall be made available
to prospective bidders, at least twenty-eight (28) days prior to the deadline
for the submission of bids.
(c) 
Bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or discount
over the estimated cost.
(d) 
Bidding documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all
who are willing to pay the required fee.
(e) 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no preference of
any kind shall be given to national bidders.
(f) 
Qualification criteria (in case pre-qualification has not been carried out)
shall be stated in the bidding documents, and if a registration process is
required, a foreign firm determined to be the lowest evaluated bidder shall
be a given reasonable opportunity to register without any hindrance, i.e.
no non-registration status should be considered as a non-eligibility-to-bid
criterion.
(g) 
Bidders may deliver bids, at their election, either in person or by courier
service or by mail.
(h) 
Bids shall be open in public in one place preferably immediately, but no
later than one (1) hour, after the deadline for submission of bids.
(i) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria
disclosed in the bidding documents, in a format, and within the specified
period, agreed with the Bank.
(j) 
Bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an
official estimate without the prior concurrence of the Bank.
(k) 
Split award or lottery in award of contracts shall not be carried out. When
two or more bidders quote the same price, an investigation shall be made
to determine any evidence of collusion, following which: (i) if collusion is
determined, the parties involved shall be disqualified and the award shall
then be made to the next lowest evaluated and qualified bidder; and (ii) if
-12-
no evidence of collusion can be confirmed, then fresh bids shall be invited
after receiving the concurrence of the Bank.
(1) 
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders within the
initial period. Extension of bid validity may be sought only under
exceptional circumstances.
(m) 
Extension of validity shall not be allowed without the prior concurrence
of the Bank: (i) for the first request for extension if it is longer than eight
(8) weeks; and (ii) for all subsequent requests for extensions irrespective
of the period.
(n) 
Negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any other
bidders.
(o) 
Re-bidding shall not be carried out without the Bank's prior concurrence.
(p) 
All contractors or suppliers shall provide performance security as
indicated in the contract documents. A contractor's or a supplier's
performance security shall apply to a specific contract under which it was
furnished.
(q) 
A provision shall be included in bidding documents and in contracts
financed by the Loan requiring bidders, suppliers and contractors to permit
the Bank to inspect their accounts and records and other documents
relating to the bid submission and contract performance and to have them
audited by auditors appointed by the Bank.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; 
(d) Selection based on Consultants'
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Procedures set
forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of
Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants
-13-
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects", dated May 2006, as revised
from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant
to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non-consulting 
29,700,000 
100%
services, Operating Costs, Training
and Workshops and consultants'
services under Part 1 of the Project
(2) Goods, non-consulting services, 
4,000,000 
100%
Operating Costs, Training and
Workshops and consultants' services
under Part 2 of the Project
(3) Goods, non-consulting services, 
4,200,000 
100%
Operating Costs, Training and
Workshops and consultants' services
under Part 3 of the Project
(4) Unallocated 
3,496,250
-14-
(5) Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
0 
Amount due pursuant
Collar premium. 
to Section 2.08(c) of
this Agreement
(6) Front-end Fee 
103,750
TOTAL AMOUNT 
41,500,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed one million Dollars
($1,000,000) may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after July
1, 2016, for Eligible Expenditures.
2. 
The Closing Date is November 30, 2021.
-15-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Principal Payment Date 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
March 15, 2022 
9.78%
September 15, 2022 
9.83%
March 15, 2023 
9.88%
September 15, 2023 
9.93%
March 15, 2024 
9.98%
September 15, 2024 
10.03%
March 15, 2025 
10.08%
September 15, 2025 
10.13%
March 15, 2026 
10.18%
September 15, 2026 
10.18%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
-16-
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to. be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
-17-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
3. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers", dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
4. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
5. 
"IDMS" means the Iraq Development Management System, the Borrower's
system for managing the preparation and implementation of investment projects.
6. 
"IFMIS" means integrated financial management information system.
7. 
"KDMS" means the Kurdistan Development Management System, KRG's system
for managing the preparation and implementation of investment projects.
8. 
"KRG" means Kurdistan Regional Government, the government of the Kurdistan
Region, or any successor thereto.
9. 
"KRG MoP" means the Kurdistan Region's Ministry of Planning, or any successor
thereto.
10. 
"Kurdistan Region" means the Kurdistan Region in the Borrower's territory.
11. 
"MoF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance, or any successor thereto.
12. 
"MoP" means the Borrower's Ministry of Planning, or any successor thereto.
13. 
"Operating Costs" means the reasonable costs incurred by the PMTs on account of
Project implementation including costs for communication; translation and
interpretation; printing; advertising; office supplies; banking charges; Project
related travel (including per diems, accommodation and transportation); vehicle
rental and fuel; postal fees; and other miscellaneous costs directly associated with
-18-
Project implementation subject to approval by the Bank, but excluding salaries and
allowances of the Borrower's civil servants or other regular government staff.
14. 
"PFM" means public financial management.
15. 
"PIM" means public investment management.
16. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers", dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
17. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
July 20, 2016 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
18. 
"Project Operational Manual" or "POM" means the Project operational manual to
be prepared and adopted by the Borrower pursuant to Section I.B of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
19. 
"Project Management Team" and "PMT" mean a Project management team to be
established by the Borrower or KRG MoP pursuant to Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2
to this Agreement; and "Project Management Teams" and "PMTs" means more
than one such team.
20. 
"Project Steering Committee" means the Project steering committee established
by the Borrower pursuant to Section I.A. 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
21. 
"Targeted Governorates" means the governorates of Baghdad and Babil in the
Borrower's territory or such other governorates as may be agreed to by the
Borrower and the Bank.
22. 
"Training and Workshops" means the reasonable costs of training, seminars,
workshops, conferences and study tours, including: (a) the fees of training
institutions and courses; (b) domestic and international travel costs, lodging costs,
and subsistence/per diem allowances for both trainers and trainees; (c) the rental
of training facilities; and (d) preparation, purchase or reproduction of training
materials.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
-19-
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement
(the "Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective
dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan
Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-
annually in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
