LOAN NUMBER 8566-CN
Loan Agreement
(Hebei Clean Heating Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
k 
( 
4 
, 2016
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8566-CN
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
, 2016, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
CHINA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I- 
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million Dollars ($100,000,000), as such
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in
financing the project described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02
(e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
-2-
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or
vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan.
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference
Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement
2.09. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit (as
said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of this Section), the
Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of orie half of one percent
(0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-
paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The
Exposure Surcharge (if any) shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each
Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set forth
below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during which
the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit, the product of:
-3-
(A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the ratio of all (or, if the
Bank so determines, a portion) of the Loan to the aggregate amount of all
(or the equivalent portions) of the loans made by the Bank to the
Borrower and to other borrowers guaranteed by the Borrower that are
also subject to an exposure surcharge, as said excess and ratio are
reasonably determined from time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the Bank's
financial exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded, would subject the
Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined from time to time by the
Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total financial
exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project Implementing Entity in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the Project
Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Baik shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Xicheng District
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Facsimile:
(86-10) 6855-2077
-4-
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MC1) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
AGREED at Beijing, People's Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: Y
Title: 
~ 
~ 
~
INTERNATIONAL ยง 
FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name:
Title:
-5-
SCHEDULE1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve the efficiency and environmental performance
of heating systems in selected areas within participating municipalities/counties of Hebei
Province.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: District Heating Subprojects
1.1 
Chengde District Heating and Energy Efficiency Subproject. 
Rehabilitation and
expansion of district heating facilities in Chengde's Shuangqio district, including: (a)
extension of district heating primary network, (b) renovation of district heating primary
and secondary network, and (c) construction of substations.
1.2 
Zhangiiakou District Heating Subproiect. 
Rehabilitation and expansion of district
heating facilities in Zhangjiakou's Qiaodong district, including: (a) extension.of district
heating primary network; (b) construction of substations; (c) conversion of coal-fired
boilers to natural gas boilers; (d) construction of a pressure isolation station; and (e)
installation of heat meters and a supervisory control and data acquisition system for
district heating.
1.3 
Pingshan District- Heating and Energy Efficiency Subproject. 
Rehabilitation and
expansion of district heating facilities in Pingshan County, including: (a) extension of
district heating primary network; (b) renovation of district heating primary network; (c)
construction of substations, and rehabilitation/expansion of existing substations; (d)
installation of heat meters; (e) installation of automatic control systems for existing
substations; (f) rehabilitation of water treatment stations; and (g) installation of a
supervisory control and data acquisition system and a central monitoring and control
system for district heating.
1.4 
Xingtai Industrial Waste Heat District Heating Subproiect. 
Construction of district
heating facilities in Xingtai Municipality, including: (a) construction of an industrial
waste heat water network and extension of primary district heating network- (b)
construction of a primary station and substations; and (c) installation of a supervisory
control and data acquisition system for district heating.
Part 2: Institutional Capacity Building and Project Management Support
Provision of: (a) Project management support; (b) capacity building activities related to
district heating management, operation and maintenance, and Project management; and
(c) training activities, technical assistance support, and knowledge sharing activities; all
to the Hebei Project Management Office and the Project Companies.
.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section 1. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Financing Arrangements
1. 
For the purposes of carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make available the
proceeds of the Loan to the Project Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including the following principal terms:
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars or any other Currency as
the Loan may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion
(such principal amount determined on the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal
from the Loan Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn.
(b) 
The principal amount so made available (including an amount equal to the fee
paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement and any premium for Interest
Rate Caps or Interest Rate Collars paid pursuant to. Section 2.08(c) of this
Agreement and Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions) shall be recovered
over a period of nineteen (19) years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years.
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and outstanding
from time to. time at a rate equal to the rate of interest applicable from time to
time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.05 of this Agreement.
(d) 
A Commitment Charge shall be charged equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to: (a) manage, operate,
monitor, transfer and reconcile the proceeds of the Loan made available to it pursuant to
paragraph I above in accordance with arrangements and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank, (b) take all required actions, including provision of timely consents and approvals
as may be necessary, to facilitate the utilization of said Loan proceeds and the
implementation of the Project and, to enable the Project Implementing Entity to comply
with its undertalcings under the Project Agreement; and (c) maintain all relevant records
and documents related to the Loan and the Project and provide promptly such documents
and records, including all other information, as may be requested by the Borrower or the
Bank from time to time.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
-7-
C. 
Safeguards
The Borrower shall take, and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to take, all
measures necessary to comply with, or all measures necessary to enable the Project
Implementing Entity to comply with the provisions of Section I.E of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and
on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Results Framework. Each Project Report
shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not
later than sixty (60) days after the end of the period covered by such report.
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the execution of
the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than the Closing Date.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare
and furnish to the Bank not later than sixty (60) days after the end of each calendar
semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. 
The audited
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six
(6) months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
-8-
2. 
Consultants' Services. 
All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to
the corresponding method described in Sections II and lH of the Procurement Guidelines,
or Sections 11, II, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional
provisions set forth in the box below; (b) Shopping; and (c) Direct Contracting.
The procedures applicable to the procurement of goods, works, and non-consulting
services under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding
("NCB") shall be the open tendering procedures set forth in the Borrower's Law on
Tendering and Bidding promulgated by its Order No. 21 dated August 30, 1999;
provided, however, that such procedures shall be subject to the provisions of Section I,
Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of Section M, and Appendix 1 of the Procurement Guidelines,
.
and the additional provisions in the following. In the event of a conflict between the
Borrower's procedures and these NCB Procedure Modifications, the latter shall govern.
(i) 
Eligibility to participate in a procurement process and to be awarded a Bank-
financed contract shall be as defined under Section I of the Procurement
Guidelines; accordingly, no bidder or potential bidder shall be declared
ineligible for such contract for reasons other than those provided in Section I of
the Procurement Guidelines. 
No restriction based on nationality of bidders
and/or origin of goods shall apply, and foreign bidders shall be allowed to
participate in NCB without application of restrictive conditions.
(ii) 
All invitations to prequalify or bid shall be advertised in a national newspaper
of wide circulation in the Borrower's country, or on a widely used website /
electronic portal with free national and international access acceptable to the
Bank except for goods or non-consulting services contracts that are estimated to
cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, or works contracts that are estimated to
cost less than $2,000,000 each, which may be advertised in a provincial daily
-9-
newspaper. Such advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for prospective
bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding documents and prepare and submit
their responses. In any event, a minimum of thirty (30) days shall be given to
bidders between the date of such advertisement (or the date of availability of
bidding documents, whichever is later) and the deadline for the submission of
bids, and the advertisement and bidding documents shall specify the deadline
for the submission of bids. In the case of such advertisement on a website /
electronic portal, ihe notice shall remain readily accessible nationally and
internationally until at least the deadline for the submission of bids. Potential
bidders shall be allowed to inspect and purchase bidding documents at any time
prior to the deadline for the submission of bids.
(iii) Standard Bidding Documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
(iv) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of evaluating the
qualification of each bidder shall be specified in detail in the bidding
documents.
(v) 
Prequalification procedures and documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used
for large, complex and/or specialized works. Verification of the information
upon which a bidder was prequalified, including current commitments, shall be
carried out at the time of contract award, along with the bidder's capability with
respect to personnel and equipment. All bidders that meet the qualification
criteria set out in the pre-qualification documents shall be allowed to bid, and
there. shall be no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. Where pre-
qualification is not used, the qualification of the bidder who is recommended
for award of contract shall be assessed by post-qualification, applying the
qualification criteria stated in the bidding documents.
(vi) 
Registration shall not be used to assess bidders' qualifications. A bidder shall
not be required to register as a condition for inspecting or purchasing bidding
documents, submitting its bid or receiving contract award. 
A bidder
determined to be the lowest evaluated responsive bidder, shall be given
reasonable opportunity of registering (if required) before contract signing
without any let or hindrance. Bidding shall not be restricted to any particular
class of contractors, and non-classified contractors shall also be eligible to bid.
(vii) No margins of preference of any sort shall be given to bidders, such as on the
basis of their location, place of incorporation, or affinity with the geographical
area in which the Project activities will take place.
(viii) All bidders who are awarded contracts for works and single-responsibility
contracts shall be required to provide performance security in an amount
sufficient to protect the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity / Entities,
as the case may be, in case of breach of contract by the contractor, and the
bidding documents shall specify the required form and amount of such security
-10-
and any other potential damages for such breach.
(ix) 
Bidders shall be allowed to submit bids by mail or in person.
(x) 
All bids.shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an opportunity to
be present (either in person or through their representatives) at the time of bid
opening, but bidders shall not be required to be present at the bid opening.
(xi) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding documents and
quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the form of pass/fail requirements.
(xii) No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price exceeds any cost
estimate or falls outside any margin or bracket of prices or average bids
established by the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity / Entities, as the
case may be. Rejection of all bids or re-bidding shall not be allowed solely
because the number of bids is less than three (3), and rejection of all bids or
rebidding shall not take place without the Bank's prior written agreement.
(xiii) Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder, that
is, the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of capability and resources
and whose bid has been determined. (A) to.be substantially responsive.to the
bidding documents; and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The winning
bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award, to undertake
responsibilities for work or to assume other obligations not stipulated in the
bidding documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally submitted. No
negotiations shall be permitted except with the Bank's no-objection.
(xiv) In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding document and
contract shall include provisions stating the Bank's policy to sanction firms or
individuals found to have engaged in fraud and corruption as set forth in the
Procurement Guidelines.
(xv) In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding document and
contract shall include provisions stating the Bank's policy with respect to
inspection and audit of accounts, records and other documents relating to the
submission of bids and contract performance.
(xvi) Government-owned enterprises in the Borrower's country may be permitted to
bid or submit a proposal of goods, works, or non-consulting services if they can
establish that they: (A) are legally and fmancially autonomous; (B) operate
under commercial law; and (C) are not a dependent agency of the agency
conducting the procurement.
(xvii) Matters such as subcontracting, joint venture relationships and assignment of*
contract shall be handled in accordance with the bidding documents.
-11-
(xviii) The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be published in the
national or provincial press (as provided under paragraph (ii) above) or official
gazette or a free and open-access website and shall identify: (A) the name of
each bidder who submitted a bid, (B) bid prices as read out at bid opening; (C)
the name of the bidder, and the evaluated price, of each bid that was evaluated-
(D) the names of bidders whose bids were either rejected as non-responsive or
not meeting qualification criteria, or not evaluated, with the reasons therefor;
and (E) the name of the winning bidder and the final total contract price, as
well as the duration and summary scope of the contract. Such publication shall
be within two (2) weeks of receiving the Bank's no-objection to the award
recommendation for contracts subject to the Bank's prior review, and within
two (2) weeks of the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity's award
decision for contracts subject to the Bank's post review. 
The bidding
documents shall disclose the newspaper in which and / or the electronic means
by which the information on contract award will be published.
(xix) The Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity / Entities, as the case may be,
shall have in place an effective and independent protest mechanism for bidders
to protest. The bidding documents. shall provide the professional title and
address of the official to whom such protests should be sent.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Qality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality
and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following methods,
other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procuremeft of
consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan: (a)
Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications; (c) Single-
source Selection of consulting firms; (d) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of
the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants; and (e) Single-
source procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
-12-
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
Expenditures in each Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) 
Goods, 
works, 
and 
non- 
100%
consulting services for-
(a) Part 1.1 of the Project 
18,089,000
(b) Part 1.2 of the Project 
29,889,000
(c) Part 1.3 of the Project 
11,810,000
(d) Part 1.4 of the Project 
29,882,000
(2) 
Consultants' 
services 
and 
2,500,000 
100%.
Training and Workshops for Part 2
-of the Project
(3) 
Interest and other charges on 
7,580,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
the Loan accrued on or before the 
Sections 2.05 and 2.04 of this
last 
Payment 
Date 
immediately 
Agreement, 
respectively, 
in
preceding the Closing Date. 
accordance 
with
Section 2.07 (c) of the General
_ _ 
_ 
Conditions
(4) Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
0 
Amount 
due 
pursuant 
to
Collar premium 
Section 
2.08(c) 
of 
this
Agreement
(5) Front-end Fee 
250,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 
2.03 
of 
this
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions -
TOTAL AMOUNT 
100,000,000
-13-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
For payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $20,000,000 may be made for payments
made prior to this date but on or after December 1, 2015, for Eligible
Expenditures.
(b) 
Under each of the Categories (1) (a) through (d) until the Bank shall have
notified the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity of its receipt of a copy
of the Subsidiary Agreement for the corresponding Subproject entered into
between the Project Implementing Entity, through the respective Project Entity,
and the respective Project Company, satisfactory to the Bank, and in accordance
with the provisions of Section IA2 (b) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
(c) 
Under Category (2) until the Bank shall have notified the Borrower and the Project
Implementing Entity of its receipt of a copy of all the Subsidiary Agreements for
the Subprojects entered into between the Project Implementing Entity, through the
respective Project Entity, and the respective Project Company, satisfactory to the
Bank, and in accordance with the provisions of Section IA2 (b) of the Schedule to
the Project Agreement
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2021.
-14-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable. on each Principal Payment
Date ("Iustallment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each March 15 and September 15
Beginning March 15, 2021 
3.57%
through March 15, 2034
On September 15, 2034 
3.61%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
-15-
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any. portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rite that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction -
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-16-
APPENDIX
Section L 
Definitions
"Abbreviated Resettlement Action Plans" or "ARAPs" means, collectively, the plans
prepared .by each Project Entity, dated August 2015 (Chengde), September 2015
(Pingshen), October 15 (Xingtai), and September 15 (Zhangiiakou), setting forth, inter
alia: (a) the principles and procedures governing the acquisition of land required for the
Project and related facilities; (b) actions and measures for the payment of compensation
to Displaced Persons and for their resettlement and rehabilitation; (c) the criteria and
procedures for developing and implementing actions and measures, satisfactory to the
Bank, for mitigating the adverse social impacts resulting from the implementation of the
Project activities; (d) procedures for grievance redress mechanisms, satisfactory to the
Bank, and (e) reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said
plans, as the same may be revised\from time to time with the prior written agreement of
the Bank- and such term includes all attachments and annexes supplemental to said plans.
2. 
"Annual Financial Viability Plan" means each of the rolling plans designed to ensure the
financial viability of each Project Company to be prepared or updated by the respective
Project Company, and approved by the Bank, on an annual basis as provided for in
Section ILD of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, which plan shall include, inter alia:
(a) all expenditures estimated to be incurred by the respective Project Company during
the forthcoming fiscal year, including debt service and capital expenditures; (b) the
estimated resources available to the respective Project Company, including revenues
from their own operations, tariffs, borrowings and equity; and '(c) proposed actions to
ensure the continued financial viability of the respective Project Company, and an annual
update on the implementation of said actions.
3. 
"Annual Work Plan" means each of the rolling plans for the Project to be prepared or
updated by the Project Implementing Entity, and approved by the Bank, on an.annual
basis as provided for in Section I.D of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
4. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating 
-
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
5. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
6. 
"Chengde Heating Group Company, Ltd." means a state-owned enterprise established
and operating pursuant to its Business License No. 130800000016286 dated July 4, 2011,
issued by the Chengde Municipality Administration for Industry and Commerce, and any
successor thereto.
7. 
"Chengde Municipality" or "Chengde" means Hebei Province's municipality of
Chengde, or any successor thereto.
-17-
8. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers"
dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
9. 
"General 
Conditions" 
means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section I of this Appendix.
10. 
"Displaced Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of the Project, have
experienced or would experience direct. economic and social impacts. caused by: (a) the
involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets
or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not
such persons must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to
legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the
livelihood of such persons; and a. "Displaced Person" means any of such Displaced
Persons.
11. 
"Environmental Management Plan" or "EMP" means the Project Implementing Entity's
plan, acceptable to the Bank, dated August 2015, which sets out the environmental and
social protection measures, including environmental codes of practice, in respect of the
Project, as well as administrative, monitoring, supervision and training arrangements to
ensure the implementation of said plans, as said plan may be revised from time to time
with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes all schedules and
annexes supplemental thereto.
12. 
"Hebei Province" means the Borrower's Province of Hebei, or any successor thereto; and
the Project Implementing Entity for the purpose of the General Conditions.
13. 
"Hebei Project Management Office" means the provincial project management office
established by Hebei Province on July 4, 2015, within Hebei's Provincial Financial
Department, responsible for the overall implementation of the Project, and referred to in
Section LA.1(b) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
14. 
"Pingshan County Urban and Township Heating Co. Ltd." means a state-owned
enterprise established 
and 
operating pursuant 
to 
its Business License 
No.
130131000013443 dated April 26, 2013, issued by Pingshan County Administration for
Industry and Commerce, and any successor thereto.
15. 
"Pingshan County" means Hebei Province's county of Pingshan, .or any successor
thereto.
16. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
-18-
17. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
November 12, 2015, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
18. 
"Project Entities" means, collectively, Chengde, Zhangjiakou, Pingshan County, and
Xigntai Municipality.
19. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means the Borrower's Province of Hebei, or any successor
thereto.
20. 
"Project Implementing Unit" means each unit established by the respective Project
Company, to provide overall management, coordination and supervision of the
preparation and implementation of the respective Subproject, and referred to in Section
I.A.2 (c) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
21. 
"Project Company" means in respect of: (a) Chengde Municipality, the Chengde Heating
Group Company, Ltd.; (b) Zhangjiakou Municipality, the Zhangjiakou Dongyuan
Heating Company; (c) Pingshan County, Pingshan County Urban and Township Heating
Co. Ltd.; and (d) Xingtai Municipality, Xingtai RISUN Anneng Heating Company, Ltd.
22. 
"Project Leading Group" means Hebei Province's group comprising its Vice Governor as
chair and representatives of key line departments, or a successor thereto; and referred to
in Section IA.1(a) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
23. 
"Results Framework' means the Borrower's framework, dated November 12, 2015, and
agreed with the Bank, setting forth the indicators and targets for purposes, of monitoring
and evaluation of the progress of the Project, as the same may be modified from time to
time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any annexes,
appendices, or schedules to such framework.
24. 
"Safeguard Instruments" means the EMP and the ARAPs.
25. 
"Subproject" means in respect of: (a) Chengde Municipality, Part 1.1 of the Project, and
the activities under Part 2 of the Project, as they relate to Part 1.1 of the Project; (b)
Zhangjiakou Municipality, Part 1.2 of the Project, and the activities under Part 2 of the
Project, as they relate to Part 1.2 of the Project; (c) Pingshan County, Part 1.3 of the
Project, and the activities under Part 2 of the Project, as they relate to Part 1.3 of the
Project; and (d) Xingtai Municipality, Part 1.4 of the Project, and the activities under Part
2 of the Project, as they relate to Part 1.4 of the Project.
26. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means each of the agreements referred to in Section LA.2 (b) of
the Schedule to the Project Agreement to be entered into between the Project
Implementing Entity, through the respective Project Entity, and the respective Project
Company pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Annex to the Schedule to the
-19-
Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules and supplements to said agreement(s).
27. 
"Training and Workshops" means the costs of training activities under the Project, based
on the Annual .Work Plans approved by the Bank, and attributable to seminars,
workshops, and domestic and overseas training, along with travel and subsistence
allowances for training participants, services of trainers, rental of training facilities,
preparation and reproduction of training materials, and other activities directly related to
course preparation and implementation.
28. 
"Xingtai Municipality" means Hebei Province's municipality of Xingtai, or any
successor thereto.
29. 
"Xingtai RISUN Anneng Heating Company, Ltd." means a company established and
operating pursuant to its Business License No. 130521000020040 dated November 13,
2014, issued by Xingtai County Administration for Industry and Commerce, and any
successor thereto.
30. 
"Zhangjiakou Municipality" or "Zhangiiakou" means Hebei Province's municipality of
Zhangjiakou, or any successor thereto.
31. 
"Zhangjiakou Dongyuan Heating Company" means a state-owned enterprise established
and operating pursuant to its Business License No. 130702000013328 dated February 27,
2015, issued by Zhangjiakou Qiaodong District Administration for Industry and
Commerce, and any successor thereto.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1 .
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn
Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge").
The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-
annually in arrears on each Payment Date."
-20-
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition
of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section
3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition
of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and
Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
