OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8636-ID
Loan Agreement
(National Slum Upgrading Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
AL6UT 
Z21 
,2016
2 of 29 
LN-8636
LOAN NUMBER 8636-ID
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated AucUsT 
2 z ,2016, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA ("Borrower")
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the
Project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project"), has requested the Bank to extend a
loan to assist in the financing of the Project; and
(B) 
the 
Borrower 
has 
also 
requested 
Asian 
Infrastructure 
Investment 
Bank
("Co-financier"), to provide additional assistance towards the financing of the Project, and the Co-
financier intends to make available to the Borrower a loan for such purpose in an amount of two
hundred sixteen million five hundred thousand United States Dollars (USD 216,500,000), ("Co-
financing"), pursuant to the agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the Co-financier
("Co-financing Agreement");
NOW THEREFORE, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an integral
part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have the
meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred sixteen million five hundred thousand United
States Dollars (USD 216,500,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than sixty
days after the Effective Date.
3 of 29 
LN-8636
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by
the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of
the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the terms
of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of the Loan
Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis
applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a
Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate
based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or
the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of
the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
2.09. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit (as said
terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of this Section), the Borrower
shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of one half of one percent (0.5%) per
annum of the Allocated Excess Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i)
of this Section) for each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge
(if any) shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
4 of 29 
LN-8636
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during which the
Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit, the product of: (A) the
total amount of said excess; and (B) the ratio of all (or, if the Bank so
determines, a portion) of the Loan to the aggregate amount of all (or the
equivalent portions) of the loans made by the Bank to the Borrower and to
other borrowers guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an
exposure surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined from
time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the Bank's financial
exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded, would subject the Loan to the
Exposure Surcharge, as determined from time to time by the Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total financial
exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project through the Ministry of Public Works and Housing
(MPWH) in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as the
Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project is
carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that the Co-
financing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all conditions precedent to its
effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals under it (other than the
effectiveness of this Agreement) have been fulfilled.
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
5 of 29 
LN-8636
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Directorate General of Budget Financing and Risk Management
Ministry of Finance
Gedung Frans Seda
Jalan Dr. Wahidin No. 1
Jakarta 10710 - Indonesia
Facsimile:
+62-21-381-2859
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
6 of 29 
LN-8636
AGREED at Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
P-OE2T 
IAY-PAHAN
012cTO- 
GENEP-AL OF 
"ifOGT
Title: 
FINANCING 
ANO 
IZISY TMANAGEMtNT
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
e:_________
Title:
7 of 29 
LN-8636
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve access to urban infrastructure and services in
targeted slums in Indonesia.
The Project consists of the following parts:
1 .
Institutional and Policy Development
Support institutional strengthening and capacity building of central government ministries
and agencies (such as BAPPENAS and MPWH) which are responsible for the management
of the national slum upgrading program through carrying out such activities as: (a)
institutional analysis at the national level and at a sample of municipal governments to
identify the nature of support needed to facilitate inter-agency coordination during program
preparation, implementation and supervision stages; and (b) strategic national upstream
policy level studies to facilitate the development of government policy to support the
sustainability of slum upgrading and prevention efforts.
2. 
Integrated Planning Support and Capacity Building for Local Governments and
Communities
Support the recruitment and deployment of experts and community facilitators to support
capacity building of governments and communities in selected Cities to design and
implement slum improvements, including the development of Slum Improvement Action
Plans (SIAPs) and Community Settlement Plans (CSPs).
3. 
Urban Infrastructure and Services Investment Support
3.1. Carrying out Sub-projects to support primary and secondary infrastructure improvement,
site development as well as construction of connecting infrastructure in selected Cities as
identified in SIAPs.
3.2. Providing Kelurahan Grants to Participating Kelurahans to fund Sub-projects for tertiary
infrastructure upgrading in selected Cities based on a community-driven approach including,
inter alia, small scale water supply, drainage, sanitation, footpaths, fire safety and site
improvements, as well as for strengthening community-based livelihoods through the
construction of livelihood-enabling facilities and services as important for slum prevention.
4. 
Implementation Support and Technical Assistance
Providing technical support, management, advisory services and training for Project
management and stakeholders' collaboration at national, provincial and city levels, as well as
monitoring and evaluation.
5. 
Contingency for Disaster Response
Providing preparedness and rapid response measures to address disaster, emergency and/or
catastrophic events, in accordance with the applicable Emergency Response Operations
Manual.
8 of 29 
LN-8636
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arran2ements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
At the national level, the Borrower shall:
(a) 
ensure that the Project is implemented subject to the overall guidance and oversight
of Pokja PKP (national working group for housing and settlement), chaired by the
BAPPENAS and including - among others - representatives from the MPWH, the
Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Home Affairs, the Ministry of Health, Ministry
of Land and Spatial Planning and the Central Bureau of Statistics;
(b) 
maintain, until completion of the Project: 
(i) the Project Management Unit,
established in MPWH, to be responsible for the management and monitoring of the
Project; and (ii) 
Central Project Implementation Unit, established in MPWH,
responsible for day-to-day implementation of the Project including recruitment of
consultants and service providers and production of reports on the progress of the
Project, in each case, with a mandate, composition and terms of reference as set out
in the Project Operations Manual and acceptable to the Bank; and
(c) 
ensure that each of the Project Management Unit and Central Project Implementation
Unit are provided at all times with adequate funds and other resources and staffed by
qualified personnel in adequate numbers as shall be necessary to accomplish the
objectives of the Project.
2. 
The Borrower, through MPWH, shall:
(a) 
at the level of each participating Province, cause to be established, prior to the
commencement of Project activities in each such Province and thereafter maintain
until completion of the Project a Provincial Project Implementation Unit (PPIU),
responsible for: (i) day-to-day implementation of the Project, including recruiting
City Coordinator and his/ her assistants, the community facilitators as well as
managing community training, in both cases with a mandate, composition and terms
of reference acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) ensuring coordination with the Provincial
Housing and Settlement Taskforce;
(b) 
at the level of each Participating City, cause to be established, prior to the
commencement of Project activities in such Participating City and thereafter maintain
until completion of the Project, a City Project Implementation Unit (CPIU),
responsible for: (i) day-to-day implementation of the Project, including channeling of
Kelurahan Grants, with a mandate, composition and terms of reference as set out in
the Project Operations Manual; and (ii) ensuring coordination with the City Housing
and Settlement Taskforce;
9 of 29 
LN-8636
(c) 
at the level of each Participating Kelurahan, establish prior to the commencement of
Project activities in such Participating Kelurahan, and thereafter maintain until
completion of the Project, a BKM, legally established, whose mandate, composition
and terms of reference shall include a financial management unit or specialist as set
out in the Project Operations Manual, to be responsible for implementation of the
Project at the Kelurahan-level; and
(d) 
ensure that each PPIU, CPIU and BKM shall be provided with adequate funds and
other resources, and supported by qualified technical, financial and administrative
personnel in adequate numbers as needed to accomplish the objectives of the Project.
B. 
Implementation Arrangements - Manuals
1 .
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with the Project Operations
Manual, acceptable to the Bank, which shall include the description of: 
(i)
implementation 
arrangements; 
(ii) 
the procurement 
procedures 
and standard
procurement documentation; (iii) reporting requirements, financial management
procedures and audit procedures; (iv) criteria for Eligible Expenditures, including
without limitation, under Sub-projects; (v) the Project performance indicators; (vi)
arrangement and procedures for environment and social safeguard management; (vii)
maintenance provisions for works to be carried out under a Sub-projects; (viii)
arrangement and procedures 
for identifying, developing and implementing Sub-
projects; and (ix) monitoring and evaluation arrangements;
(b) 
not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provisions of the Project
Operations Manual without the prior written agreement of the Borrower and the
Bank;
(c) 
ensure that the Project Operations Manual is made available, at all times until
completion of the Project, to consultants, service providers, City Coordinators and
community facilitators and Participating Local Governments, and applied in the
carrying out of Sub-projects; and
(d) 
with the prior written agreement of the Borrower and the Bank, update the Project
Operations Manual, as necessary, at all times ensuring compliance thereof with the
terms of this Agreement.
2. 
In the event of any conflict between the provisions of: (a) the Project Operations Manual;
and (b) those of this Agreement, the latter shall prevail.
3. 
In order to ensure the proper implementation of Part 5 of the Project ("Emergency
Response"), the Borrower shall:
10 of 29 
LN-8636
(a) 
prepare and furnish to the Bank for its review and approval, an operations manual
which shall set forth detailed implementation arrangements for the Emergency
Response, including: (i) designation of, terms of reference for and resources to be
allocated to the entity to be responsible for coordinating and implementing the
Emergency Response ("Coordinating Agency"); (ii) specific activities which may be
included in the Emergency Response, Eligible Expenditures required therefor
("Emergency Expenditures"), and any procedures for such inclusion; (iii) financial
management arrangements for the Emergency Response; (iv) procurement methods
and procedures for Emergency Expenditures to be financed under the Emergency
Response; (v) documentation required for withdrawals of Emergency Expenditures;
(vi) environmental and social safeguard management frameworks for the Emergency
Response, consistent with the Bank policies on the matter; and (vii) any other
arrangements necessary to ensure proper coordination and implementation of the
Emergency Response;
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to review said proposed operations
manual;
(c) 
promptly adopt such operations manual for the Emergency Response as shall have
been approved by the Bank ("Emergency Response Operations Manual");
(d) 
ensure that Part 5 of the Project is carried out in accordance with the Emergency
Response Operations Manual; and
(e) 
not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provision of the Emergency
Response Operations Manual without prior approval by the Bank.
4. 
In the event of any conflict between the provisions of: (a) the Emergency Response
Operations Manual; and (b) those of this Agreement, the latter shall prevail.
C. 
Environment and Social Safeguards
1 .
In carrying out Sub-projects, the Borrower shall apply and shall ensure that each
Participating Local Government (including Participating Kelurahan) shall apply the
Environmental and Social Management Framework and, where applicable: (a) prepare and
ensure that each Participating 
Local Government 
shall prepare, 
as required, 
an
Environmental Management Plan, a PCR Management Plan, an IPP or LARAP for each
Sub-project, fully consistent with this Agreement and the Environmental and Social
Management Framework; (b) furnish such plan to the Bank for written no-objection prior to
carrying out the Sub-project; and (c) thereafter implement the Sub-project (or cause the Sub-
project to be implemented) in accordance with such plan(s).
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that all technical assistance activities under the Project are
undertaken in accordance with the guidelines, requirements and procedures set forth in the
Safeguards Instruments and the relevant operational policies of the Bank.
11 of 29 
LN-8636
3. 
Without limitation to paragraph I above, in carrying out Sub-projects, the Borrower shall:
(a) 
take all necessary actions to avoid or minimize to the extent possible any involuntary
relocation of persons, or their loss of shelter, assets, or access to assets, or loss of
income sources or means of livelihood, temporarily or permanently;
(b) 
in the event that Project activities give rise to Displaced Persons, prior to the
commencement of such activities, cause to be prepared, a Land Acquisition and
Resettlement Action Plan, acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with the guidelines,
requirements and procedures set forth in the Land Acquisition and Resettlement
Policy Framework, and thereafter implement or cause to the implemented in a timely
manner said Land Acquisition and Resettlement Plan as approved by the Bank;
(c) 
in the case of voluntary land donation, ensure that the planning and verification
procedures for land donation (voluntary donation without compensation and
voluntary transfer without compensation) set out in the Project Operational Manual
shall have been followed and documented in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and
the Project Management Unit prior to the commencement of the Sub-project; and
(d) 
in the case of voluntary community-based land consolidation, ensure that planning
and verification procedures for the voluntary community-based land consolidation set
out in the Project Operational Manual shall have been followed and documented in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank and the Project Management Unit prior to the
commencement of the Sub-project.
4. 
The Borrower shall, and shall cause each Participating Local Government (including
Participating Kelurahan) to, ensure that all land acquisition required for the purposes of
carrying out works under the Project are financed exclusively out of its own resources, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the resources needed for these purposes, including: (a) all
land acquisition required for the purposes of carrying out the Project; (b) resettlement and
rehabilitation payments to Displaced Persons; and (c) all other costs associated with
environmental and/or social mitigation measures set forth in the Safeguard Instruments.
5. 
Where Indigenous Peoples are present in, or have a collective attachment to, the area of the
Participating Local Government (including Kelurahan), the Borrower shall apply, and shall
ensure that the Participating Local Government shall apply, the Indigenous Peoples Planning
Framework to Sub-project implementation, including:
(a) 
avoiding, and, if not possible, minimizing cultural, social and economic adverse
effects on Indigenous Peoples caused or likely to be caused by the Project;
(b) 
through a process of free, prior, and informed consultation and participation,
involving concerned Indigenous Peoples in the design and implementation of Sub-
projects so as to ensure that there is broad community support for Sub-projects and
that the benefits received by the Indigenous Peoples under the Project are in harmony
with their economic, social and cultural preferences and protect their customary user
rights; and
12 of 29 
LN-8636
(c) 
preparing an Indigenous Peoples Plan for the Participating Local Government based
on the foregoing consultations and furnish such Indigenous Peoples Plan to the Bank
for written no-objection prior to carrying out the Sub-projects in such Participating
Local Government; and thereafter implement the Sub-project in accordance with such
plan
6. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
not amend, revise or waive, nor allow to be amended, revised or waived, the
provisions of the Safeguard Instruments or any provision of any one thereof, without
the prior written agreement of the Bank; and
(b) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate, in
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, the implementation of the
Safeguard Instruments.
7. 
In case of any inconsistency between the provisions of any of the Safeguard Instruments and
this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
D. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
E. 
Sub-projects
1 .
Sub-projects generally.
(a) 
The Borrower shall ensure that Sub-projects under Parts 3 and 5 of the Project are
prepared, reviewed, approved and implemented on the basis of eligibility and
selection criteria, and in accordance with guidelines and procedures, all acceptable to
the Bank, including, inter alia, those set forth in this Agreement, the Project
Operations Manual, and as applicable, the Emergency Response Operations Manual.
(b) 
Without limitation to the foregoing, no activity proposed as a Sub-project shall be
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless the Sub-project
Implementing Entity has undertaken to: (i) carry out the Sub-project with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, economic, financial,
managerial, environmental and social standards and practices satisfactory to the
Bank; (ii) require its personnel and other representatives involved in its Sub-project
to adhere to the highest ethical standards in connection with its Sub-project, and in
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines; (iii) provide,
promptly as needed, the resources required for the purpose; (iv) procure the goods,
works and services required for the Sub-project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement; (v)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate in
accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the progress of the Sub-project
and the achievement of its objectives; (vi) (A) maintain a financial management
13 of 29 
LN-8636
system and prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied
accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect the
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Sub-project; and (B) at the
Bank's or the Borrower's request, have such financial statements audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, and promptly furnish the statements as so
audited to the Borrower and the Bank; (vii) enable the Borrower and the Bank to
inspect the Sub-project, its operation and any relevant records and documents; and
(viii) prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such information as the
Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing.
(c) 
No Sub-project shall: (i) include expenditures intended for a military or paramilitary
purpose; (ii) include civil works for government administration or religious purposes;
(iii) relate to the manufacture or use of environmentally harmful products (including
pesticides, ozone-depleting 
substances, tobacco or tobacco products, materials
containing asbestos, arms and drugs); (iv) relate to activities producing liquid or
gaseous effluents or emissions at harmful levels; (v) relate to activities using,
producing, storing or transporting hazardous materials and wastes; (vi) relate to
logging; (vii) relate to activities in protected areas; (viii) relate to fisheries activities
that are not in accordance with standards set by the Borrower's Fishery Service
Agency; (ix) include the financing of government salaries; (x) relate to mining or
excavation of live coral or coral reef; (xi) include the provision of goods, works or
services, directly or through intermediaries, by suppliers or contractors, as the case
may be, who have been declared ineligible to participate in the procurement of any
Bank-financed contract, whether indefinitely or for a stated period of time, as a result
of a decision of the Bank, and in accordance with the terms of the decision; (xii)
finance land acquisition; (xiii) include economic activities involving revolving funds;
(xiv) include activities with significant, sensitive, complex, irreversible 
and
unprecedented potential adverse environmental and social impacts that may affect an
area broader than the sites or facilities; and (xv) include activities with the scale
beyond those specified in the Ministry of Public Works and Housing Regulation No.
10, 2008.
(d) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights in respect of each Sub-project in such manner
as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan.
2. 
Sub-projects under Part 3.2 of the Project financed under Kelurahan Grants.
The Borrower shall make each Kelurahan Grant for a Sub-project under Part 3.2 of the
Project to a Participating Kelurahan on terms and conditions acceptable to Bank which shall
include those set forth or referred to in the Project Operations Manual, this Agreement, and
the following provisions:
(a) 
The amount of the Kelurahan Grant shall not exceed the lesser of: (i) the estimated
cost of the Sub-project (inclusive of taxes); and (ii) the Sub-project ceiling set out in
the Project Operations Manual.
14 of 29 
LN-8636
(b) 
Each Sub-project shall be selected from the Community Settlement Plan developed
by the BKM of the Participating Kelurahan.
(c) 
The requirement of the Kelurahan to comply with the obligations set forth in Section
I.E.1 (b) of this Schedule.
(d) 
No project shall qualify as a Sub-project eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
a Kelurahan Grant until a Sub-project Agreement: (a) has been entered into between
the Ministry of Public Works and Housing and the relevant Participating Kelurahan
(through BKM), in each case on terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and
in the Project Operations Manual; and (b) has been reviewed and approved by the
relevant consultants.
(e) 
The Borrower shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and those of the
Bank, including the right to suspend or terminate the right of the Kelurahan to use the
proceeds of the Loan, or obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount of the Loan
then withdrawn for the Sub-project, upon the Kelurahan failure to perform any of its
obligations, including those specified above in Section I.E. 1(b) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
(f) 
Each Sub-project shall be a public infrastructure or equipment investment project or a
social service project (which may include emergency preparedness or risk reduction
to reduce vulnerability to natural disasters) which is technically, financially and
environmentally viable, and economically justified by the number of people
benefiting from it.
(g) 
Each Sub-project proposed that is in the education sector shall be compatible with the
relevant Kabupaten/Kota education master plan, if such plan exists.
(h) 
Each Sub-project that is in the health sector shall be compatible with the relevant
Kabupaten/Kota health master plan, if such plan exists.
3. 
Sub-projects under Part 3.1 of the Project
(a) 
The MPWH shall carry out the Sub-projects under Part 3.1 of the Project.
(b) 
Each Sub-project shall be selected from the SIAP developed by the Local
Government and meeting the requirements set forth in the Project Operations Manual.
(c) 
In order to facilitate the implementation of Part 3.1 of the Project, the MPWH shall
enter into a memorandum of understanding with each Participating City outlining the
obligations of each part regarding implementation of activities in the SIAPs as further
described in the Project Operations Manual.
15 of 29 
LN-8636
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on
the basis of the indicators agreed with the Bank and set forth in the Project Operations
Manual. 
Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar year, and shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the period covered by
such report.
2. 
No later than June 30, 2018, the Borrower shall, in conjunction with the Bank, carry out a
mid-term review of the Project (the "Mid-term Review"), covering the progress achieved in
the implementation of the Project. To this end, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Bank not less than three (3) months prior to the beginning of the Mid-term Review, a report
integrating the results of the Project's monitoring and evaluation activities, on the progress
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of such
report, and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the
Project and the achievement of the objective of the Project during the period following such
date. Following the Mid-term Review, the Borrower shall act promptly and diligently in
order to take, or cause to be taken, any corrective action deemed necessary by the Bank to
remedy any shortcoming noted in the carrying out of the Project in furtherance of the
objective of the Project.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare and
furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter,
interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions
of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall
cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for
each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such
period.
16 of 29 
LN-8636
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-consulting services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured
in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set
forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and with the provisions
of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to the
corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the Procurement Guidelines, or
Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in the
Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set
forth in the Annex 2 to this Schedule; (b) Shopping; (c) Direct Contracting; and (d)
Community Participation procedures acceptable to the Bank.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
I. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality and
Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following methods, other
than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of consultants' services
for those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection;
(b) Least Cost Selection; (c) Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications; (d) Single-
source Selection of consulting firms; (e) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the
Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants; and (f) Single-source
procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants.
17 of 29 
LN-8636
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of
Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank Disbursement
Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as
made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in
each Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures to
Allocated 
be Financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Kelurahan Grants under Part 3.2 
60,000,000 
100% 
of 
Bank 
Share 
of
of the Project 
Kelurahan 
Grant 
amount
disbursed
(2) Goods, works, consultants' 
156,500,000 
100% of Bank Share of Total
services, non-consulting services 
Lending
and Training and Workshops
under Parts 1, 2, 3.1 and 4 of the
Project
(3) Emergency Expenditures under 
0 
100% of Bank Share of Total
Part 5 of the Project 
Lending
TOTAL AMOUNT 
216,500,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end
Fee;
18 of 29 
LN-8636
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(c) 
under Category (3) until: (i) the Borrower has declared a disaster, emergency or
catastrophic event through the relevant national authority; (ii) the Bank and the
Borrower have agreed in writing to address such disaster, emergency or catastrophic
event under Part 5 of the Project and in accordance with the provisions of this
Agreement; and (iii) Borrower has adopted an Emergency Response Operations
Manual in accordance with the provisions of Section I.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is March 31, 2022.
19 of 29 
LN-8636
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
National Competitive Bidding: Modifications to Procedures
The procedures applicable to the procurement of goods, works, and non-consulting services under
contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding shall be those of the Pelelangan
Umum (Public Tendering) and Pemilihan Langsung / Pelelangan Sederhana (Simplified Tendering)
methods as set forth in the Borrower's Presidential Regulation No. 54/2010 and its subsequent
amendments as of January 16, 2015, with the modifications set out below in order to ensure
economy, efficiency, transparency, and broad consistency with the provisions of Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, pursuant to paragraph 3.3 of said Guidelines. The Pemilihan Langsung /
Pelelangan Sederhana method shall apply to such procurement up to the financial thresholds
specified in said Regulation. In the event of a conflict between the Borrower's procedures and these
modifications, the latter shall govern.
1. 
Procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard bidding documents acceptable to the
Borrower and the Bank. 
The provisions of Section 1.16 (Fraud and Corruption) of the
Procurement Guidelines shall apply, and each bidding document and contract financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan shall include provisions on matters pertaining to fraud and
corruption as defined in paragraph 1.16(a) of said Guidelines and the contract provisions set
out in paragraph 1.16(e) of said Guidelines.
2. 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding. If a registration process is required, a
foreign firm determined to be the lowest evaluated responsive bidder shall be given
reasonable time for registration. Foreign bidders shall not be required to form a joint venture
or sub-contract part of the supply of goods, non-consulting services, and works as a condition
for submitting bids or the award of the contract. Bidding documents shall be made available
to all international bidders.
3. 
No preference of any kind shall be given to any bidders.
4. 
Under the Pelelangan Umum method, bidders shall be allowed at least twenty-one (21) days
from the date of the invitation to bid or the date of availability of bidding documents,
whichever is later, to prepare and submit bids; this period shall be ten (10) days under the
Pemilihan Langsung /Pelelangan Sederhana method.
5. 
Bids invited under the Pelelangan Umum method shall be submitted in one (1) envelope and
evaluated using post-qualification.
6. 
No bidder shall be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with the owner's estimate
and budget ceiling without the Bank's prior written concurrence.
7. 
Bid security, if it is required by the bidding documents, at the bidder's option, shall be in the
form of a letter of credit or guarantee from a reputable bank or other reputable financial
institution and shall without exception follow the form provided for this purpose in the
bidding documents.
20 of 29 
LN-8636
8. 
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Bank's prior written
concurrence.
9. 
Government-owned enterprises in Indonesia shall be eligible to participate provided that they
comply with paragraph 1.10(b) of the Procurement Guidelines.
21 of 29 
LN-8636
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of
the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date ("Installment
Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
15 July 2023 
4.18
15 January2024 
4.28
15 July 2024 
4.39
15 January2025 
4.50
15 July 2025 
4.61
15 January2026 
4.73
15 July 2026 
4.85
15 January2027 
4.97
15 July 2027 
5.09
15 January2028 
5.22
15 July 2028 
5.35
15 January2029 
5.48
15 July 2029 
5.62
15 January2030 
5.76
15 July 2030 
5.91
15 January2031 
6.05
15 July 2031 
6.20
15 January2032 
6.36
15 July 2032 
6.45
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment
Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as of
such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on each
Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
22 of 29 
LN-8636
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date,
such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred
to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on
the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be
repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal
Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any time
the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on or after
the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no
longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to
the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
23 of 29 
LN-8636
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated
October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Bank Share" means the percentage agreed from time to time between the Bank and
Cofinancier, and reflected in the additional instructions specified by the Bank pursuant to
Section IV.A. 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
3. 
"Bappeda" means Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Daerah or the regional development
planning agency of a Province or a Kabupaten/ Kota, as the case may be, or any successor
thereto.
4. 
"Bappenas" means Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Nasional or the national development
planning board of the Borrower, or any successor thereto.
5. 
"BKM" means Badan Keswadayaan Masyarakat, a Kelurahan level board of community
trustees with elected members legally empowered to act on behalf of the Kelurahan
community in the Participating Kelurahan, and "BKMs" means more than one BKM.
6. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
7. 
"Central Bureau of Statistics" means Badan Pusat Statistik, the Borrower's entity established
pursuant to Borrower's law no. 16 of 1997.
8. 
"Central Project Implementation Unit" means the unit established and operating in
accordance with Section I.A. 1 (b)(ii) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
9. 
"City" or Kota" means a municipality, an administrative division within a province of the
Borrower.
10. 
"City Coordinator" means the consultant and its teams assigned to each Participating City
and/or Participating Kabupaten to manage the implementation of the Project, including
coordination of Facilitators, and "City Coordinators" means more than one City Coordinator.
11. 
"City Project Implementation Unit" or "CPIU" means each City-level Project implementation
unit established and operated by each Participating City in accordance with Section I.A.2(b)
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and "CPIUs" means more than one CPIU.
12. 
"Co-financier" means the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, a multilateral financial
institution whose purpose is to foster sustainable economic development, create wealth and
improve infrastructure connectivity in Asia by investing in infrastructure and other
productive sectors.
24 of 29 
LN-8636
13. 
"Co-financing" means, for purposes of paragraph 16 of the Appendix to the General
Conditions, an amount of two hundred sixteen million five hundred thousand United States
Dollars to be provided by the Co-financier to assist in financing the Project.
14. 
"Co-financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and the Co-financier providing for the Co-financing.
15. 
"Community Settlement Plan" or "CSP" means each multi-year slum development plan for a
Participating Kelurahan prepared by a BKM in accordance the procedures and criteria set out
in the Project Operations Manual, and "Community Settlement Plans" means more than one
Community Settlement Plan.
16. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January
2011 (revised July 2014).
17. 
"Displaced Person" means a person who, on account of the execution of the Project, has
experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by: (a) the
involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or
access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such
person must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally
designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such
person, and "Displaced Persons" means, collectively, all such Displaced Persons.
18. 
"Emergency Expenditure" means any of the Eligible Expenditures set forth in the Emergency
Response Operations Manual in accordance with the provisions of Section I.B.3(a)(ii) of the
Schedule 2 to the Agreement and required for the activities included in Part 5 of the Project.
19. 
"Emergency Response Operations Manual" means the manual to be prepared and adopted by
the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of Section I.B.3(c) of the Schedule 2 to the
Agreement, as the manual may be revised from time to time in accordance with the
provisions of Section I.B.3 of the Schedule 2 to the Agreement.
20. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" means the environmental and social
safeguards management framework dated March 8, 2016 and adopted by the Borrower on
May 31, 2016, giving details of a program of actions, measures and policies designed to
maximize the benefits accruing under the Project, avoid or mitigate any adverse impacts
arising thereunder, or, if such adverse impacts cannot be avoided altogether, reduce such
impacts to acceptable levels, as the same may be updated from time to time in agreement
with the Bank, such framework incorporating among others LARPF, IPPF, EMP(s),
LARAP(s), IPP(s) and PCR Management Plan(s).
21. 
"Environmental Management Plan" or "EMP" means an environmental management plan,
acceptable to the Bank and consistent with the Environmental and Social Management
Framework adopted for the purposes of a Sub-project, and giving details of the agreed
actions and policies designed to maximize the benefits of the Sub-project, eliminate or offset
25 of 29 
LN-8636
any adverse environmental impacts, or reduce such impacts to acceptable levels, along with
the procedural and institutional measures needed to implement such actions and policies.
22. 
"Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year commencing January I and ending December
31 of the same year.
23. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
24. 
"Indigenous Peoples" means those social groups in the Borrower's territory that have a
distinct, vulnerable, 
social 
and cultural identity, 
and that 
possess the following
characteristics in varying degrees: (a) self-identification as members of a distinct indigenous
cultural group and recognition of this identity by others; (b) collective attachment to
geographically distinct habitats or ancestral territories in the Project area and to the natural
resources in these habitats and territories; (c) customary cultural, economic, social, or
political institutions that are separate from those of the dominant society and culture; and (d)
an indigenous language.
25. 
"Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework" means the updated indigenous peoples planning
framework issued by the Borrower on March 8, 2016, giving details of a program of actions,
measures and policies designed to facilitate a process of free, prior and informed consultation
involving Indigenous Peoples in the design and implementation of every Sub-project, and to
ensure that such Indigenous Peoples derive benefits from the Sub-project which are socially,
economically and culturally appropriate, and gender and inter-generationally inclusive.
26. 
"Indigenous Peoples Plan" means each plan for a Sub-project, meeting the requirements of
the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework, that sets out the agreed measures to: (a) involve
Indigenous Peoples, through a process of free, prior and informed consultation, in the design
and implementation of each Sub-project in locations in which such people reside or make
their living; (b) ensure that Indigenous Peoples affected by the Sub-project receive culturally
appropriate social and economic benefits; and (c) when potential adverse effects on
Indigenous Peoples are identified, those adverse effects are avoided, minimized, mitigated, or
compensated for, in each case in a manner acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower.
27. 
"Kabupaten" means a regency, an administrative division of the Borrower.
28. 
"Kabupaten/Kota Housing and Settlement Task Force" means the local government-level
task force established under a decree of a Bupati or mayor, as applicable, in each
Participating Kabupaten or Participating City, or any successor thereto.
29. 
"Kecamatan" means a district, an administrative division of a Kabupaten.
30. 
"Kelurahan" mean an urban section of a Kecamatan.
31. 
"Kelurahan Grant" means a grant made available by the Borrower out of the proceeds of the
Loan to a Participating Kelurahan for a Sub-project under Part 3.2 or Part 5 of the Project,
and "Kelurahan Grants" means more than one Kelurahan Grant.
26 of 29 
LN-8636
32. 
"Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan" or "LARAP" means a resettlement and
rehabilitation action plan for a Sub-project giving details of the agreed provisions for
compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement assistance to Displaced Persons under the Sub-
project, along with the procedural and institutional measures needed to implement such
agreed provisions, acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower, prepared and implemented by a
BKM, pursuant to the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework.
33. 
"Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework" means the land acquisition and
resettlement policy framework adopted by the Borrower through MPWH on May 31, 2016
setting forth the measures and actions to be taken during the implementation of the Project
for the provision of compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement assistance to Displaced
Persons, as such framework may be amended from time to time with the prior written
agreement of the Bank and the Borrower.
34. 
"Local Government" means the government of a Kabupaten or Kota as the context requires,
and "Local Governments" means more than one Local Government.
35. 
"Ministry of Finance" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for finance or any
successor thereto.
36. 
"Ministry of Health" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for health or any successor
thereto.
37. 
"Ministry of Home Affairs" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for internal affairs or
any successor thereto.
38. 
"Ministry of Land and Spatial Planning" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for land
or any successor thereto.
39. 
"Ministry of Public Works and Housing" or "MPWH" means the Borrower's ministry
responsible for public works and housing or any successor thereto.
40. 
"Participating City" means a City meeting the eligibility requirements set out in the Project
Operations Manual and selected to participate in the Project.
41. 
"Participating Kelurahan" means a Kelurahan meeting the eligibility requirements set out in
the Project Operations Manual and selected to participate in the Project.
42. 
"Participating Local Government" means the government of a participating Kota or a
participating Kabupaten designated by the Borrower as one in which a Participating
Kelurahan shall carry out a Sub-project in accordance with the Project Operations Manual,
and "Participating 
Local Governments" 
means more than one participating Local
Government.
43. 
"PCR Management Plan" means the plan prepared in accordance with the ESMF containing
measures for avoiding or mitigating any adverse impacts on physical cultural resources,
27 of 29 
LN-8636
provisions 
for managing chance 
finds, any necessary measures for strengthening
institutional capacity, and a monitoring system to track the progress of these activities.
44. 
"Perpres" means a Peraturan Presiden, a presidential regulation.
45. 
"Pokja PKP" means the national-level oversight body of the Borrower's national slum
upgrading program, referred to in Section I.A. 1(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, or any
successor thereto.
46. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-
consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
47. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated May 30,
2016 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of
the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with
the provisions of said paragraphs.
48. 
"Project Management Unit" means the central-level Project management unit established and
operating in accordance with Section I.A. 1 (b)(i) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
49. 
"Project Operations Manual" means the Project operations manual, dated May 31, 2016
referred to in Section I.B. 1(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time in agreement with the Bank, and such term includes any schedules to the
Project Operations Manual.
50. 
"Province" means an administrative sub-division of the Borrower's territory at the first level
below the national level.
51. 
"Provincial Project Implementation Unit" or "PPIU" means each Province-level Project
implementation unit established and operated by each Participating Province in accordance
with Section I.A.2(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and "PPIUs" means more than one
PPIU.
52. 
"Provincial Housing and Settlement Task Force" means the provincial government-level task
force, established under a decree of a relevant governor in each participating Province.
53. 
"Safeguards Instruments" means, collectively, the Environmental and Social Management
Framework, the Environmental Management Plan(s), LARPF, IPPF, EMP(s), LARAP(s),
IPP(s) and PCR Management Plan(s).
54. 
"Slum Improvement Action Plan" or "SIAP" means each slum development plan for a
Participating Local Government prepared in accordance with the procedures and criteria set
out in the Project Operations Manual, and "Slum Improvement Action Plans" means more
than one Slum Improvement Action Plans.
28 of 29 
LN-8636
55. 
"Sub-project" means a set of activities: (a) under Part 3.1 of the Project as identified in a
Slum Improvement Action Plan; (b) under Part 3.2 of the Project as identified in a
Community Settlement Plan; or (c) under Part 5 of the Project as agreed in writing between
the Borrower and the Bank, in each case selected pursuant to criteria and procedures set forth
in the Project Operations Manual or (in the case of sub-project under Part 5 of the Project)
Emergency Response Operations Manual 
and "Sub-projects" means more than one Sub-
project.
56. 
"Sub-project Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the relevant
Participating Kelurahan, through the BKM, and the Ministry of Public Works and Housing
for purposes of implementing a Sub-project on the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement and included in the Project Operations Manual, and "Sub-project Agreements"
means more than one Sub-project Agreement.
57. 
"Sub-project Implementing Entity" means as the context requires any of the following
entities responsible for implementing Sub-projects namely, the Ministry of Public Works and
Housing (in the context of Part 3.1 of the Project), Kelurahan (in the context of Part 3.2 of the
Project) or Coordinating Agency (in the context of Part 5 of the Project).
58. 
"Total Lending" means the amount constituted by the Cofinancing and the Loan.
59. 
"Training and Workshops" means Project-related training and workshops conducted in the
territory of the Borrower, including acquisition and publication of materials, rental of
facilities, course fees, and travel and subsistence of trainees.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1 .
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers are
modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). 
The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan Agreement
to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan
Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on
each Payment Date."
29 of 29 
LN-8636
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs are
modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition of
"Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
