OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8611-IN
Loan Agreement
(Grid-Connected Rooftop Solar Program)
between
STATE BANK OF INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
30 ,2016
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8611-IN
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
I0'J 0 
o, 2016, between the STATE BANK OF INDIA
(variously the "Borrower" or "SBI") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (variously "IBRD" or the "Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby
agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of five hundred million United States Dollars
(USD 500,000,000) ("Loan"), to assist in financing the program described in Schedule 1
to this Agreement ("Program").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be
deposited by the Bank into an account specified by the Borrower and acceptable to the
Bank.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02
(e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May I and November I in each year.
-2-
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit (as
said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of this Section), the
Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of one half of one percent
(0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-
paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The
Exposure Surcharge (if any) shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each
Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set forth
below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during which
the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit, the product of:
(A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the ratio of all (or, if the
Bank so determines, a portion) of the Loan to the aggregate amount of all
(or the equivalent portions) of the loans made by the Bank to the
Borrower, the Guarantor and to other borrowers guaranteed by the
Guarantor that are also subject to an exposure surcharge, as said excess
and ratio are reasonably determined from time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the Bank's
financial exposure to the Guarantor which, if exceeded, would subject
the Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined from time to time by
the Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total financial
exposure to the Guarantor, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Program. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out the Program in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Program is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consists of the following, namely that:
(a) 
the SBI Act and SBI General Regulations have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability
of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under the Program; or
(b) 
the Guarantor and/or the Borrower has/have taken any action, or adopted any
policy or regulation, which results in: (i) the material and substantial
impossibility for the Borrower to carry out the Program and/or implement the
provisions of the Program Operations Manual; whether in whole or in part;
and/or (ii) a significant reversal of the Program activities and/or any measures
undertaken by the Borrower for the strengthening of the Program Fiduciary,
Environment and Social Systems pursuant to the Program Operations Manual.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that any of the
events specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period
of 30 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that each of
the CTF Loan Agreement and CTF Grant Agreement has been executed and delivered
and all conditions precedent to their effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make
withdrawals under them (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement) have been
fulfilled.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is any of the following officials, acting severally: the
Chairman, Managing Directors, Deputy Managing Directors, Chief General Managers, or
any other officer of the Borrower authorized as per the SBI Act and SBI General
Regulations.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
State Bank of India
Kind Attn: Chief General Manager
Corporate Center
State Bank Bhawan,
Madame Cama Road,
Mumbai - 400 021
India
-4-
Facsimile:
+91-22-22021906
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Facsimile:
1-202-477-6391
AGREED at N 
6 
, India, as of the day and year first above written.
STATE BANK OF INDIA
By
AutAu 
Representative
Name:
Title: LCrul-Y 
iHP,J? 41t4 
R- 6 7DR
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
OA'JA)O 
t4x004t
Title: 
/A 1-,e,/U 
A
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Description
The objective of the Program is to increase installed capacity of GRPV and strengthen the
capacity of Relevant Institutions for GRPV.
The Program consists of the following activities:
Result Area 1: Strengthening Institutional Capacity for GRPV
(a) 
Strengthening the Institutional Capacity of SBI, through: (i) establishing a PIU
for the Program and mobilizing staff in other SBI departments and/or branches in
support of its GRPVs business line; (ii) setting up SBI internal policies and
procedures for loan origination, risk assessment and loan approval; (iii) providing
training to SBI staff on GRPVs financing; (iv) providing incentives to SBI staff
to undertake the promotion of GRPVs financing; (v) strengthening SBI's IT
systems to track GRPVs transactions; (vi) carrying out public awareness and
advertising campaigns promoting GRPVs financing products; (vii) internalizing
lessons learnt during Program implementation and launching a second round of
GRPVs financing; and (viii) setting up a loss offsetting fund.
(b) 
Strengthening the Institutional Capacity of DISCOMs, SNAs and ERCs to
contribute to an improved investment climate for GRPV, by coordinating the
administration of a technical assistance program with the help of a program
management consultant under the guidance of MNRE and the Steering
Committee, which will be: (i) providing capacity building and technical
assistance support to selected DISCOMs, regulators and other institutions in
respect to solar rooftop power generation, trading and metering; (ii) facilitating
the SNAs' communication and stakeholder awareness campaigns on GRPVs
systems and the available financing therefor; and (iii) establishing training and
accreditation programs for qualified rooftop PV technical inspectors.
Result Area 2 Developing GRPV Market
(i) Developing and implementing market aggregation models for the financing of
GRPV installers and rooftop owners; (ii) undertaking marketing and business
development for deal origination; (iii) providing financing to SBI clients, eligible
as per the Program Operations Manual, for the purchase, including inventory
creation, and installation of GRPVs; and (iv) piloting targeted lending to non-
banking financial companies and small and medium enterprises.
Results Area 3: Expanding GRPV Generation Capacity
Installing GRPVs systems for aggregate generation capacity of at least 400 MW
including (optional) batteries for power storage in accordance with the technical
standards issued by MNRE and/or CEA, as applicable.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Program Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Program Fiduciary, Environmental and Social Systems
1. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the
Borrower shall carry out the Program, or cause the Program to be carried out, in
accordance with financial management, procurement and environmental and social
management systems acceptable to the Bank including those set out in the ESSA
("Program Fiduciary, Environmental and Social Systems") which are designed to ensure
that:
(a) 
the Loan proceeds are used for their intended purposes, with due attention to the
principles 
of 
economy, 
efficiency, 
effectiveness, 
transparency, 
and
accountability; and
(b) 
the actual and potential adverse environmental and social impacts of the Program
are identified, avoided, minimized, or mitigated, as the case may be, all through
an informed decision-making process.
2. 
The Borrower shall establish within six (6) months after the Effective Date, and
thereafter maintain and operate throughout the period of implementation of Program
activities, a grievance redress mechanism, acceptable to the Bank, for the processing of
any complaint for grievances arising out of the implementation of the Program.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
1 .
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall carry
out the Program, or cause the Program to be carried out, in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
2. 
In furtherance of paragraph 1, above, in this Sub-Section I.B, the Borrower shall prepare
and furnish to the Bank quarterly reports detailing, in a manner and substance agreed
with the Bank, any complaints received during such quarter from internal sources,
supervisory bodies, the industry and/or general clients, regarding incidents of fraud,
corruption, collusion, coercion, obstruction to investigations, 
and/or any other
reprehensible actions/conducts contemplated in the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Lender's Engineer(s)
Prior to disbursing any amounts under any Sub-Loan Agreement for GRPVs financing
pursuant to Sub-Section I.F below for which: (i) the Borrower's Sub-loan amount is
equivalent to, or greater than, USD 7,400,000 (i.e. INR500,000,000 equivalent); or (ii)
the overall GRPV investment costs is equivalent to, or greater than, USD 14,800,000 (i.e.
INRI,000,000,000 equivalent), the Borrower shall engage and thereafter maintain for up
-7-
to at least three (3) months after the commercial operation date of the financed
investment, a lender independent engineer, or a panel of engineers (the "Lender's
Engineer"), with qualification and experience and under terms of reference set forth in
the Program Operations Manual, to assist the Borrower in ensuring the clients'
compliance with all applicable regulations, governmental permits and the Borrower's
enabling policy framework (including the Program Operations Manual).
D. 
Program Operations Manual
1 .
Without limitation on the generality of Part A of this Section 1, the Borrower shall:
(a) 
carry out the Program in accordance with the Program Operations Manual;
(b) 
implement the provisions set forth in the Program Operations Manual for the
strengthening of the Program Fiduciary, Environmental and Social Systems, in a
manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank, within the agreed timetable; and
(c) 
refrain from materially and/or substantially amending, revising, waiving, voiding,
suspending or abrogating, any provision of the Program Operations Manual,
whether in whole or in part, without the prior written mutual agreement of the
Bank, which cannot be unreasonably withheld.
2. 
In the event of any inconsistency between the provision of the Program Operations
Manual and those of this Agreement, this Agreement shall govern.
E. 
Annual Work Plans and Budget
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
furnish to the Bank by not later than January 31 
of each year, commencing on
January 31, 2017, the annual work plan and associated budget covering the
activities 
proposed for the 
Borrower's 
subsequent Year 
of Program
implementation; which plan and budget shall be of such scooe and detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(b) 
thereafter ensure that Program activities for the respective Year are carried out in
accordance with such plan and budget as agreed with the Bank.
F. 
GRPVs Financing
The Borrower shall appraise, review and approve any individual application for GRPVs
financing in accordance with the criteria, conditions and procedures set out in the
Program Operations Manual, which shall include, among others:
(a) 
a certification by: (i) the Lender's Engineer, for any Sub-loans of US$ 7,400,000
equivalent (i.e. INR500,000,000 equivalent) or more and/or GRPV investment
sub-projects of USD 14,800,000 equivalent (i.e. INR1,000,000,000 equivalent)
or more; or (ii) the Borrower's appraisal officer(s), confirming the proposed
-8-
GRPVs investment's compliance with the environmental, safety and social
standards set out in the Program Operations Manual and the ESSA, as well as all
applicable Indian laws and regulations relating to environmental, health, and
safety issues;
(b) 
the applicant's compliance with all necessary licenses, permits and/or clearances
for the installation of GRPVs as required by the law of the land; and
(c) 
the applicant and/or disclosed sub-contractors/providers, at time of appraisal, not
being debarred by the Bank nor listed in the temporary suspension lists that the
Bank shall regularly notify to the Borrower.
2. 
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to its clients in accordance
with eligibility criteria and procedures set out in the Program Operations Manual. To this
end the Borrower shall enter into a Sub-loan Agreement with each approved applicant
client on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, which shall include the following:
(a) 
the Borrower shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and those of the
Bank, including:
(i) 
the right to suspend or terminate the right of the client to use the
proceeds of the Sub-loan, or declare the Sub-loan to be immediately due
and payable, or obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount of the
Sub-loan then withdrawn, upon the client's failure to perform any of its
obligations under the Sub-loan Agreement; and
(ii) 
the requirement that each client:
(A) 
carry out its GRPVs investment with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, economic,
financial, managerial, environmental and social standards and
practices consistent with the Program Fiduciary-Environmental
and Social Systems, and in compliance with the requirements of
the ESSA and the Anti-Corruption Guidelines;
(B) 
procure the goods and works to be financed out of the Sub-loan
in accordance with well-established private sector procurement
methods or commercial practices, and:
(I) 
use 
such goods 
and works 
exclusively 
for the
installation, operation and/or maintenance of GRPVs;
(1I) 
refrain from procuring any contracts for: (a) civil works,
estimated to cost one hundred fifteen million United
States Dollar (USD 115,000,000) equivalent or more per
contract; 
(|3) 
goods, estimated to cost seventy five
million 
United 
States 
Dollar (USD 
75,000,000)
equivalent or more 'per contract; (y) non-consulting
-9-
services and IT systems, estimated to cost sixty million
United States Dollar (USD 60,000,000) equivalent or
more per contract; or (6) consultants' services, estimated
to 
cost 
thirty 
million 
United 
States 
Dollar
(USD 30,000,000) equivalent or more per contract;
(111) 
refrain from awarding any contract financed by the Sub-
loan to firms or individuals on the debarment list
published by the Bank;
(C) 
maintain procurement records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing all expenditures
incurred under the Sub-loan until at least five years after the
signing of the Sub-loan;
(D) 
(I) maintain, a financial management system and prepare financial
statements in accordance 
with consistently applied general
accounting principles/standards applicable in India, both in a
manner adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources 
and
expenditures related to its GRPVs investments; (II) regularly
provide utilization certificates in support of any withdrawals of
Sub-Loan amounts providing name of suppliers/contractors with
contract values in excess to USD 5,000,000 equivalent; and (III)
at the Bank's or the Borrower's request, have such foregoing
financial statements and/or utilization certificates audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Borrower or the Bank, as
the case may be, in accordance with consistently applied auditing
principles/standards applicable in India, and promptly furnish the
statements as so audited to the Borrower and the Bank;
(E) 
enable the Borrower and the Bank to inspect its premises,
operations, the GRPVs investment, and/or any relevant records
and documents related to the Sub-loan; and
(F) 
prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such
information as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably request
relating to the foregoing.
3. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Sub-loan Agreement in such manner as
to protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower and to accomplish the purposes of
the Loan.
G. 
Program Action Plan
1 .
The Borrower shall implement the Program Action Plan agreed with the Bank, in a
manner and substance agreed with the Bank.
-10-
2. 
In the event of any inconsistency between the provision of the Program Action Plan and
those of this Agreement, the provision of this Agreement shall govern.
Section II. 
Excluded Activities
The Borrower shall ensure that the Program excludes any activities which:
(a) 
in the opinion of the Bank, are likely to have significant adverse impacts that are
sensitive, diverse, or unprecedented on the environment and/or affected people;
or
(b) 
involve the procurement of: (i) works, estimated to cost one hundred fifteen
million United States Dollar (USD 115,000,000) equivalent or more per contract;
(ii) goods, estimated to cost seventy five million United States Dollar
(USD 75,000,000) equivalent or more per contract; (iii) non-consulting services
and IT 
systems, estimated to cost sixty million United States Dollar
(USD 60,000,000) equivalent or more per contract; or (iv) consultants' services,
estimated to cost thirty million United States Dollar (USD 30,000,000)
equivalent or more per contract.
Section III. 
Program Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation; Audits
A. 
Program Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Program and prepare
Program Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions. Each Program Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than sixty (60) days after the end of the period
covered by such report.
2. 
Notwithstanding the provision of paragraph I above, the Borrower shall:
(a) 
prepare, by no later than November 30, 2018, and furnish to the Bank, a mid-
term review report, in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank,
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed
pursuant to paragraph (1) above on the progress achieved in the carrying out of
the Program during the period preceding the date of such report, and setting out
the measures recommended to ensure: (i) the efficient carrying out of the
Program and/or the said activities; and (ii) the achievement of the objectives of
the Program, during the period following such date; and
(b) 
review with the Bank, by January 31, 2019, or such later date as the Bank shall
agree, the mid-term review report referred in sub-paragraph (a) above, and,
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the
Program and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions
and recommendations of the said report and the Bank's views on the matter.
-11-
B. 
Program Financial Audits
1. 
Without limitation on the generality of Section I.A of this Schedule 2 and Section 5.09 of
the General Conditions, the Borrower shall have the Program's Financial Statements
audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the
Borrower, commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal was made. The
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later
than nine (9) months after the end of such period.
2. 
Notwithstanding the provision of paragraph I above, the Borrower shall prepare and
furnish to the Bank not later than sixty (60) days after the end of each calendar semester,
interim unaudited financial reports for the Program, covering the Program Expenditures
incurred during the semester in form and substance agreed with the Bank.
C. 
Verification Protocols for the Program
1 .
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
engage by no later than six (6) months after the Effective Date, and thereafter
maintain, throughout the period of implementation of the Program, one or more
verification agents, having experience and qualification in the relevant technical
fields acceptable to the Bank, and under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank, 
in 
order 
to 
monitor, 
audit, 
analyze 
and/or 
verify 
the
achievement/fulfillment of the DLRs corresponding to DLIs #2 and #3, as set out
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and
(b) 
furnish to the Bank the corresponding verification/audit reports, in form and
substance agreed with the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower shall furnish to MNRE and the Bank any information and/or
documentation that MNRE and/or the Bank shall reasonably require for the monitoring,
audit, analysis and/or verification of the achievement/fulfillment 
of the DLRs
corresponding to DLIs #1 and #4, as set out in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of: (a) the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions; (b) the CTF Loan in accordance with
the provision of Article III of the CTF Standard Conditions; and (c) the CTF Grant in
accordance with the provisions of the Grant Standard Conditions; as well as the
provisions of this Section, and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify from
time to time by notice to the Borrower to: (i) pay the Front-end Fee; (ii) pay each Interest
Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar premium; and (iii) finance the Program Expenditures, on
the basis of the results ("Disbursement Linked Results" or "DLRs") achieved by the
-12-
Borrower, as measured against specific indicators ("Disbursement Linked Indicators" or
"DLIs"); all as set forth in the table in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2. 
The following table specifies each category of withdrawal of the proceeds of the Loan,
the CTF Loan, and the CTF Grant (including the Disbursement Linked Indicators as
applicable) ("Category"), as well as the allocation of the amounts of the Loan, CTF Loan
and CTF Grant to each such Category:
Amount of the 
Amount of the 
Amount of the
Category 
Loan 
CTF Grant 
CTF Loan
(including Disbursement Linked 
Allocated 
Allocated 
Allocated
(Incdingto 
Dbsemtlined 
8611-IN 
TF0A2023 
TFOA2401
Indicator as applicable) 
(expressed in 
(expressed in 
(expressed in
USD) 
USD) 
USD)
(1) DLI #1: Establishing a GRPVs 
0 
5,000,000 
0
program at SBI
(2) DLI #2: Aggregate amounts of
loans originated by SBI for the 
198,750,000 
0 
100,000,000
financing 
of 
GRPVs 
power
generation schemes
(3) DLI #3: MW of solar (PV) rooftop
power 
generation 
installed and 
300,000,000 
0 
0
commissioned under SBI financing
(4) DLI #4: Sustainability of GRPVs 
0 
0 
20,000,000
program at SBI
(5) Front-end Fee to be paid pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this Agreement 
1,250,000 
N/A 
N/A
in accordance with Section 2.07(b)
of the General Conditions*
TOTAL AMOUNT 
500,000,000 
5,000,000 
-120,000,000
* The Front-end Fee is exclusively accrued under, and applicable to, the IBRD Loan
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
for payments for Program Expenditures made prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed: (i) USD
25,000,000 out of the Loan proceeds; and (ii) USD 6,250,000 out of the CTF
Loan proceeds, may be made for such payments made prior to this date but on or
after October 15, 2015; or/and
(b) 
for any DLR under Category (1), (2), (3) or (4), until and unless:
-13-
(i) 
the Borrower has prepared and adopted a Program Operations Manual,
acceptable to the Bank, including a pro-forma Sub-Loan Agreement
detailing the environmental, social and safety standards applicable to all
GRPV investments; and
(ii) 
the Borrower has furnished evidence satisfactory to the Bank that said
DLR has been achieved.
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.1(b)(ii) of this Section, the Borrower may, at
any point in time and upon fulfilment of the condition precedent to disbursements set
forth in Part B.1(b)(i) of this Section, withdraw the proceeds of the Loan, the CTF Grant
and/or the CTF Loan up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of twenty-
five percent (25%) of each such financings (net of any cancellations) as advance for
purposes of achieving one or more DLRs for which the Borrower shall subsequently
furnish to the Bank the evidence referred to in sub-paragraph 1.(b)(ii) (above), Part B of
this Section IV; provided, however, that, if by the date six (6) month after the Closing
Date (i.e. the end of the acceptable period for the verification of the DLRs) the Borrower
has withdrawn amounts out of the proceeds of the Loan, the CTF Grant and/or the CTF
Loan in excess of the Allocated Amount(s) authorized for disbursement as per Schedule 3
to this Agreement in respect of documented/achieved DLRs, the Bank shall require the
Borrower to refund the amount of such excess to the Bank, promptly upon notice thereof
by the Bank, in order for the Bank to proceed with its cancellation. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the Bank may, at any time, in its own discretion, exercise any of the actions set
forth in sub-paragraph 3.(a) (below), Part B of this Section IV, in respect of any such
amounts.
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.1(b)(ii) of this Section, if the Bank is not
satisfied that any of the DLR(s) set forth in Schedule 3 of this Agreement has/have been
achieved by the end of the Year in which said DLR(s) is/are set to be achieved and/or the
Allocated Amount(s) of such DLR(s) has/have not been fully withdrawn under paragraph
2 (above) of this Part B, Section IV, the Bank may, at any time, by notice to the
Borrower, decide, in its sole discretion, to:
(a) 
authorize the withdrawal of such lesser amount of the respective Allocated
Amount(s) allocate to said DLR(s) which, in the opinion of the Bank,
corresponds to the extent of achievement of said DLR(s);
(b) 
withhold all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan, the CTF Grant or the CTF
Loan then allocated to said DLR(s) until such DLR(s) is/are satisfactorily met;
(c) 
reallocate all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan, the CTF Grant or the CTF
Loan then allocated to said DLR(s) to any other DLR(s); and/or
(d) 
cancel all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan, the CTF Grant or the CTF
Loan then allocated to said DLR(s).
4. 
The Closing Date is November 30, 2021.
-14-
5. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section IV, if at any time after the
Closing Date the Borrower has failed to provide evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the
aggregated amounts of the Withdrawn Loan Balance for each of the Loan and the CTF
Loan, and the balance of the CTF Grant proceeds withdrawn from the CTF Grant
account, do not exceed the total amount of Program Expenditures paid by the Borrower,
exclusive of any such expenditures financed by any other financier or by the Bank or the
Association under any other loan, credit or grant, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such excess amount of the Withdrawn Loan
Balance for each of the Loan and/or the CTF Loan and/or proceeds withdrawn from the
CTG Grant account. Any such refunds will be first allocated to the Loan, then the CTF
Loan and last to the CTF Grant. The Bank shall cancel the so refunded amounts from the
Withdrawn Loan Balance of each of the Loan and/or CTF Loan, and/or the CTF Grant, as
the case may be.
SCHEDULE 3
Disbursement-Linked Indicators, Disbursement-Linked Results and Allocated Amount(s) Applicable to the Program
DISB URSEMENT LINKED RESUILTS
DISBURSEMENT
LINKED 
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE
INDICATORS 
ACHIEVED IN 
ACHIEVED IN 
ACHIEVED IN 
ACHIEVED IN 
ACHIEVED IN
FY2016/17 (YEAR 1) 
FY2017/18 (YEAR 2) 
FY2018/19 (YEAR 3) 
FY2019/20 (YEAR 4) 
FY2020/21 (YEAR 5)
1. Establishing 
SBI has established its
GRP Vs Program GRPV financing
at SBI 
program.
Allocated 
CTF 
USD 5 million
Amount(s) &
Source of
Funding 
IBRD 
N/A
2. Aggregate 
SBI has signed loans for 
SBI has signed loans for 
SBI has originated loans 
SBI has originated loans
amounts of loans 
the financing of 
the financing of 
for the financing of 
for the financing of
signed by SBI 
installation of solar (PV) 
installation of solar (PV) 
installation ofsolar (PV) 
installation of solar (PV)
for the financing 
rooftops for an aggregate 
rooftops for an additional 
rooftops for an additional 
rooftops for an additional
of GRP Vs power 
amount of at least USD 
aggregate amount of at 
aggregate amount of at 
aggregate amount of at
generation 
50 million equivalent 
least USD 10 million 
least USD 10 million 
least USD 10 million
schemes 
equivalent above Year 1. 
equivalent above Year 2. 
equivalent above Year 3.
USD 500,000 
USD 400,000 
USD 200,000
perUSD I 
per USD 
per USD1
CTF 
million 
CF 
million 
CF 
million 
CF 
N/A
Allocated 
equivalent of 
equivalent of 
equivalent of
Amount(s) & 
loans originated 
loans originated 
loans originated
Source of 
USD 500,000, 
USD 150,000 
USD 350,000 
USD 550,000
Funding 
per USD 1 
per USD I 
per USD I 
o 
r 
(PV)
IBRD 
million 
USRD 
million 
IBRD 
million 
lBRD 
million
equivalent of 
equivalent of 
equivalent of 
equivalent of
loans originated 
loans originated 
loans originated 
loans originated
3. MWofsolar 
At least 25 MW of solar 
At least 25 MW of solar 
At least 25 MW of solar 
At least 25 MW of solar
(PV) rooftop 
(PV) rooftop power 
(PV) rooftop power 
(PV) rooftop power 
(PV) rooftop power
power 
generation capacity 
generation capacity 
generation capacitv 
generation capacity
-16-
DISBURSEMENT LINKED RESULTS
ISBURSLEfLNT
LINKED 
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE
INDICATORS 
ACHIEVED IN 
ACHIEVED IN 
ACHIEVED IN 
ACHIEVED IN 
ACHIEVED IN
FY2016/17 (YEAR 1) 
FY2017/18 (YEAR 2) 
FY2018/19 (YEAR 3) 
FY2019/20 (YEAR 4) 
FY2020/21 (YEAR 5)
generation 
financed by SBI have 
financed by SBI have 
financed by SBI have 
financed by SBI have
installed and 
been installed and 
been installed and 
been installed and 
been installed and
commissioned 
commissioned 
commissioned over and 
commissioned over and 
commissioned over and
above the capacity 
above the capacity 
above the capacity
financing 
installed and 
installed and 
installed and
commissioned up to 
commissioned up to 
commissioned up to
CTF 
N/A 
CTF 
N/A 
CTF 
N/A 
CTF 
N/A
beeninsalleean
Fundng 
nstlle an 
intalld ad 
istaledndinstalled and
commissioned 
commi 
commissionedmupstondcmisoe
4.Sustainabfinanced 
byI 
h 
sB 
havnc 
e h
GRPVprogam 
scommipssoed ove andGRP
at 
SBI 
finsalledg prand
Allocated 
CTF 
NAUCTDN/ACTFm/AlCFiN/
Amounts)&US7000UD5,0US7000U 
7000
Source of 
IBRD 
peNWIR/erMAe 
W 
IBD 
.prM
Funding 
isaldadisaldadisaldadmtle 
n
SCHEDULE 4
Amortization Schedule
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on May 1, 2036.
-18-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Allocated Amount(s)" means the amount allocated to each individual DLR, or
determined for each DLR pursuant to the formula detailed in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement, as such amount might be increased, reallocated and/or cancelled (whether
partially or in its entirety) by the Bank, from time to time as the case may be, in
accordance with the provisions of Section IV.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the Bank's "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Program-for-Results Financing," dated February 1,
2012, and revised July 10, 2015.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
4. 
"CEA" means the Guarantor's Central Electric Authority established pursuant to Section
70 of the Guarantor's Electricity Act, 2003 (Act No 36 of 2003), or any successor thereto.
5. 
"CTF" means the fund established by approval of the World Bank Executive
Directors on July 1, 2008, and governed under the Governance Framework for the
Clean Technology Fund.
6. 
"CTF Grant" means the grant in the amount of five million United States Dollars
(USD 5,000,000) provided by the CTF for the co-financing of the Program pursuant to
the CTF Grant Agreement.
7. 
"CTF Grant Agreement" means the agreement, of the same date as this Agreement,
between the Borrower and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development,
acting as an implementing entity of the CTF, for purposes of providing the CTF Grant for
the co-financing the Program, as such agreement may be amended from time to time.
8. 
"CTF Guarantee Agreement" means the agreement of the same date as this Agreement,
between India and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, acting as
an implementing entity of the CTF, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the CTF Guarantee
Agreement.
9. 
"CTF Loan" means the loan in the amount of one hundred and twenty million United
States Dollars (USD 120,000,000) provided by the CTF for the co-financing of the
Program pursuant to the CTF Loan Agreement.
10. 
"CTF Loan Agreement" means the agreement, of the same date as this Agreement,
between the Borrower and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development,
acting as an implementing entity of the CTF, for purposes of providing the CTF Loan for
the co-financing the Program, as such agreement may be amended from time to time.
-19-
11. 
"CTF Standard Conditions" means the "Standard Conditions for Loans Made by the
World Bank Out of the Climate Investment Fund", dated February 18, 2014, with the
modification set forth in Section II of the Appendix to the CTF Loan Agreement.
12. 
"DISCOMs" means electric power distribution companies, licensed and operating in the
territory of the Guarantor.
13. 
"Disbursement Linked Indicator" or "DLI" means each of the disbursement-linked
indicators set forth in the first column of the table provided in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
14. 
"Disbursement Linked Result" or "DLR" means each of the disbursement-linked
targets/results set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement in the columns entitled "Results
to be Achieved in FY2016/17 (Year 1)", "Results to be Achieved in FY2017/18 (Year
2)", "Results to be Achieved in FY2018/19 (Year 3)", Results to be Achieved in
FY2019/20 (Year 4)" or "Results to be Achieved in FY2020/21 (Year 5)", as applicable.
15. 
"ESSA" means the Environmental and Social Systems Assessment dated February 9,
2016, and applicable to the Program setting forth the description of the Program's
activities, assessing SBI's environmental and social management systems, detailing the
Program's environmental and social benefits, risks and impacts, and recommending
remedial measures to strengthen SBI's social and environmental systems performance.
16. 
"ERCs" means the State Electricity Regulatory Commissions established pursuant to
Section 82 of the of the Guarantor's Electricity Act, 2003 (Act No 36 of 2003), or the
successors thereto.
17. 
"Fiscal Year" or "FY" means the Borrower's fiscal year which begins on April 1 of each
calendar year and ends on March 31 of the next calendar year.
18. 
"General 
Conditions" 
means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
19. 
"Governance Framework for the Clean Technology Fund" means the framework adopted
on November 18, 2008 by the CTF trust fund committee, as amended from time to time.
20. 
"Grant Standard Conditions" means the "Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the
World Bank Out of Various Funds", dated February 15, 2012, with the modifications set
forth in Section II of the Appendix to the CTF Grant Agreement.
21. 
"GRPV" means a grid-connected rooftop solar photovoltaic system meeting the technical
requirements of the Program Operations Manual.
22. 
"IBRD" means the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, acting on its
own behalf.
-20-
23. 
"IBRD Guarantee Agreement" means the agreement between India and the Bank of even
date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the IBRD Guarantee Agreement.
24. 
"INR" means Indian Rupees.
25. 
"IT" means information technology.
26. 
"IUFR" means the interim unaudited financial reports to be prepared by the Borrower
pursuant to Section III.B2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
27. 
"Lender's Engineer" means the independent engineer(s) to be hired by SBI for
monitoring and quality assurance, and the assessment of safety issues during GRPV
construction and operation phases, pursuant to Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
28. 
"MNRE" means the Guarantor's Ministry of New and Renewable Energy, or any
successor thereto.
29. 
"MW" means megawatt.
30. 
"PIU" means the Program Implementation Unit to be established by the Borrower
pursuant to DLI #1 and the provisions of the Program Operations Manual.
31. 
"Program Action Plan" means the plan dated March 23, 2016, setting forth priority
actions between by the Borrower and the Bank for the strengthening of the Program
Fiduciary and Environmental and Social Systems, and referred to in Section I.G of the
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with the
prior written concurrence of the Bank.
32. 
"Program Fiduciary and Environmental and Social Systems" means the Borrower's
systems for the Program referred to in Section L.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
33. 
"Program Operations Manual" and the acronym "POM" mean the Program Operational
Manual", to be prepared by the Borrower in a manner and substance satisfactory to the
Bank for purposes of carrying out the Program, which manual shall comprise, inter alia:
(i) the definition of the contours of the Program, including Program activities, results
framework, overall budget and list of Program Expenditures; 
(ii) the Program
implementation arrangements, including the setup of a dedicated PIU, identification of
key relevant staff, and the allocation of functions and responsibilities within SBI's
cadres; (iii) the format of the Program's IUFRs; (iv) the technical specification of GRPV
equipment eligible for financing, the various financing modalities therefor, and loan
pricing; (v) the screening protocols and procedures for the assessment of clients and the
evaluation of their GRPV financing application, including social compliance, safety and
environmental standards set forth in the ESSA; (vi) the pro-forma Sub-loan, setting forth
the terms and conditions for GRPV financing, including the applicable procurement
-21-
thresholds, the Bank's Anti-Corruption Guidelines, and environmental, social and safety
requirements consistent with the Program Fiduciary and Environmental and Social
Systems and the ESSA; (vii) the DLIs/DLRs verification protocols and arrangements, and
the terms of reference for the verification agents to be hired pursuant to Section III.C of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; (viii) the procedure for the preparation of annual work
plans and budgets; (ix) the terms of reference for the external auditor preparing the
Program's Financial Statements, and the Lender's Engineer; (x) the protocols and
procedures for the grievance redress mechanism set forth in Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2
to this Agreement; and (xi) the Program monitoring and evaluation, and reporting
requirements, as the same might be amended from time to time with the prior
concurrence of the Bank.
34. 
"PV" means photo-voltaic.
35. 
"Relevant Institutions" means collectively the SNAs, ERCs, Power Departments of the
States of the Guarantor, the distribution companies licensed and operating in the territory
of the Guarantor, media companies and other consumer education channels, and/or any
other stakeholder that the Borrower and the Association shall agree from time to time.
36. 
"Reserve Bank of India" means the Guarantor's central bank.
37. 
"SBI" means the State Bank of India, a statutory corporation bank, incorporated pursuant
to the State Bank of India Act, 1955 (Act No. 23 of 1955), and operating under the SBI
Act and SBI General Regulations.
38. 
"SNAs" means, collectively, the State Nodal Agencies of the States of the Guarantor,
responsible for coordination of all renewable energy activities of the respective States,
including channeling of central sector subsidies, or any successor thereto.
39. 
"SBI Act and SBI General Regulations" means the State Bank of India Act, 1955 (Act
No. 23 of 1955) along with the Reserve Bank of India's: (i) State Bank of India General
Regulation, 1955; (ii) State Bank (Compensation on Imperial Bank Shares) Rules, 1955;
(iii) State Bank of India (appointment of employee Directors) Rules, 1974; (iv) State
Bank of India Administrator (Salary and Allowances) Rules, 2013; and (v) State Bank of
India Committee (Procedure) Rules, 2013, as the same might have been amended and
supplemented to the date of this Agreement.
40. 
"Steering Committee" means the committee established and chaired by a representative
of MNRE for the purposes set out in Section 3.01 of the IBRD Guarantee Agreement and
Section 3.01 of the CTF Guarantee Agreement.
41. 
"Sub-loan" means each of the loans (to be) made available by the Borrower to one of its
clients out of the proceeds of the Loan, the CTF Loan and/or the CTF Grant, under the
respective Sub-loan Agreement, for the financing of the acquisition, installation,
operation and maintenance of GRPV pursuant to Section I.F of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and the eligibility criteria and technical specification set forth in the Program
Operations Manual.
-22-
42. 
"Sub-loan Agreement" means each of the agreements (to be) entered by the Borrower
with a client for purposes of extending a Sub-loan, pursuant to Section I.F.2 of Schedule
2 to this Agreement and the additional terms and conditions set forth in the Program
Operations Manual.
43. 
"Year" means any of the Years 1 through 5 of Program implementation, and the context
shall determine.
44. 
"Year 1" means the first year of implementation of Program activities, expected to take
place in Fiscal Year 2016/17 in order to achieve the results shown in the second column
of the table in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
45. 
"Year 2" means the second year of implementation of Program activities, expected to
take place in Fiscal Year 2017/18 in order to achieve the results shown in the third
column of the table in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
46. 
"Year 3" means the third year of implementation of Program activities, expected to take
place in Fiscal Year 2018/19 in order to achieve the results shown in the fourth column of
the table in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
47. 
"Year 4" means the fourth year of implementation of Program activities, expected to take
place in Fiscal Year 2019/20 in order to achieve the results shown in the fifth column of
the table in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
48. 
"Year 5" means the fifth year of implementation of Program activities, expected to take
place in Fiscal Year 2020/21 in order to achieve the results shown in the sixth column of
the table in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
Wherever used throughout the General Conditions, the term "the Project" is modified to
read "the Program", the term "the Project Agreement" is modified to read "the Program
Agreement", the term "Project Implementing Entity" is modified to read "the Program
Implementing Entity", the term "Project Report" is modified to read "Program Report";
and the term "Eligible Expenditures" is modified to read "Program Expenditures".
2. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the amendments set forth below.
3. 
Section 2.02, Special Commitment by the Bank, is deleted in its entirety, and the
subsequent Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
-23-
4. 
In Section 2.02 (originally numbered as Section 2.03), the heading "Applications for
Withdrawal or for Special Commitment" is replaced with "Applications for Withdrawal",
and the phrase "or to request the Bank to enter into a Special Commitment" is deleted.
5. 
The section originally numbered as Section 2.04, Designated Accounts is deleted in its
entirety, and the subsequent Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
6. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 
(originally numbered as Section 2.05), Eligible
Expenditures (renamed "Program Expenditures" in accordance with paragraph I of this
Section II), is modified to read: "(a) the payment is for the financing of the reasonable
cost of expenditures required for the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan in accordance with the provisions of the Legal Agreements;".
7. 
The last sentence of Section 2.04 (originally numbered as Section 2.06), Financing
Taxes, is modified to read: "To that end, if the Bank at any time determines that the
amount of any such Tax is excessive, or that such Tax is discriminatory or otherwise
unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, exclude such amount or such
Tax from the Program Expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as
required to ensure consistency with such policy of the Bank."
8. 
Section 2.06 (originally numbered as Section 2.08), Reallocation, is modified to read:
"Notwithstanding any allocation of an amount of the Loan to a withdrawal category
under the Loan Agreement, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, reallocate any other
amount of the Loan to such category if the Bank reasonably determines at any time that
such reallocation is appropriate for the purposes of the Program".
9. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn
Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge").
The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-
annually in arrears on each Payment Date."
10. 
Section 7.01, Cancellation by the Borrower, is modified to read: "The Borrower may, by
notice to the Bank, cancel any amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance."
11. 
Paragraph (d) of Section 7.03, Cancellation by the Bank, entitled "Misprocurement", is
deleted, and subsequent paragraphs are relettered accordingly.
-24-
12. 
Section 7.04, Amounts Subject to Special Commitment not Affected by Cancellation or
Suspension by the Bank, is deleted in its entirety, and subsequent Sections in Article VII
and references to such Sections are renumbered accordingly.
13. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all references to Section numbers and paragraphs are
modified, as necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above.
14. 
A new paragraph 19 is inserted with the following definition of "Commitment Charge",
and the remaining paragraphs are renumbered accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
15. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section
3.01 (a).
16. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition
of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), the Exposure
Surcharge (if any), any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or
early termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any
premium payable upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar,
and any Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
17. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting the words
"Commitment Charge and Exposure Surcharge (if any) are" after the word "interest".
18. 
Renumbered paragraph 88 (originally paragraph 87) of the Appendix, setting forth the
definition of "Special Commitment" is deleted in its entirety, and all subsequent
paragraphs are renumbered accordingly.
