OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8588-CG
Loan Agreement
(Urban Development and Poor Neighborhood Upgrading Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated IM 
PL 
2016
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8588-CG
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT 
dated 
v r p yx e v 
, 2016, 
between 
the
REPUBLIC OF CONGO ("Borrower") and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of eighty million Dollars ($80,000,000),
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement
("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to this
Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
not later than sixty days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided,
that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the
General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the
ithdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower
-2-
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Wit out limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
ex 
pt as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
e ure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
to this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The Borrower has entered into the Delegated Management Contract with
each of the Project Cities, in accordance with the provisions of Section
I.B. I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(b) 
The Borrower has adopted a Project Implementation Manual, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank.
4.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that each
Delegated Management Contract, has all been duly authorized or ratified by the
parties thereto and is legally binding upon such parties in accordance with their
respective terms.
4.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
4.04. 
For purposes of Section 8.05(b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty years after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its minister responsible for finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finances, Budget and Public Portfolio
B.P. 2028
Brazzaville
Republic of Congo
F 
simile:
(242) 2281.43.69
-4-
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at Brazzaville, Republic of Congo, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
By:
Authorized Representative
Name: 
CAW
Title: MI Y))i 
V 
Le
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT
By:
Authorized Representative
Name: Amu D 
d Q( 
i)A
Title: n 
(, 
\f 
('\ 
L 
rpc 
f o'-
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) improve access to infrastructure and basic
services for people living in selected unplanned settlements in Brazzaville and Pointe
Noire; and (b) strengthen government and municipal capacity for urban upgrading.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: Integration and Neighborhood Upgrading
1. 
Connectivity and Network Investment Program
Carrying out a program of investments in infrastructure, including, inter alia:
(a) upgrading of about 18 km of road works; (b) upgrading of about 10,000 square meters
of anti-erosion works in Brazzaville; and (c) expansion of primary and/or secondary
infrastructure to connect beneficiary neighborhoods to water and electricity networks.
2. 
Upgrading Investments
Carrying out a program of rehabilitation or construction of a wide array of socio-
economic infrastructure in targeted neighborhoods.
Part B: Development of Institutions and Capacity
1. 
Community Facilitation
Provision of technical advisory services, equipment, training and logistical
support, including, inter alia: (a) hiring of community facilitators to assist the targeted
neighborhoods' residents' participation in upgrading design, data collection, needs
identification, investment planning, implementation and operation and maintenance of
Project activities; (b) training for neighborhood representatives and city focal points;
(c) carrying out of community facilitation activities; and (d) training and assistance to
develop new income-generating activities for persons affected by the Project.
2. 
Neighborhood Upgrading Plans
Provision of technical advisory services for: (a) the establishment of site
conditions; (b) the elaboration of feasibility studies and neighborhood upgrading plans; and
(c) the elaboration of engineering designs.
3. 
Urban Sector Organization and Regulation
Improving the overall sector regulations, inter alia, through: (a) carrying out of
ins tutional diagnostic of the urban sector to reorganize and determine the role and
-6-
responsibilities of each actor; (b) the preparation of decrees to operationalize urban and
housing legislation; (c) development of a neighborhood upgrading strategy; (d) capacity
building of the MCUDH, including organizational and functional reorganization, training
and equipment, and a communication strategy on urban planning tools; (e) elaboration of
a land strategy and district plans for Brazzaville and Pointe Noire; and (f) enhancement of
environmental and social safeguards in national legislation, including a grievance
mechanism.
4. 
City-level Institution Building
Strengthening the institutional role and the capacity of city administrations and
elected officials, through, inter alia, the provision of: (a) support to implement a system
for the management of the municipalities' key assets and investments; (b) technical
assistance to manage projects; (c) support to Brazzaville and Pointe Noire municipalities
to improve management of, and increase revenues from, commercial infrastructure;
(d) support to update the municipal tax database and revenue collection; (e) support the
addressing of streets and numbering of houses in Brazzaville and Pointe Noire and related
training and equipment to the city administrations; (f) support to city administrations for
the establishment of procurement units; (g) support for the implementation of Simba
financial management software to municipal departments and districts; (h) support to
enhance the capacity of Brazzaville and Pointe Noire municipal administrations to work
with communities to implement neighborhood upgrading programs; (i) training and
technical assistance for municipal staff and elected officials in, inter alia, community
involvement, urban planning, investment programming, and additional approved demand-
driven capacity building; and (j) study trips.
Part C: Project Management, Coordination and Evaluation
Provision of advisory services, logistical assistance and incremental operating
costs to the PCU for the supervision of the Project activities, including environmental and
social safeguards monitoring and evaluation, financial and technical audits, updating of
monitoring and evaluation systems, preparation of communication plan, and carrying out
o 
aseline and impact assessments and workshops.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation and Institutional Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
For the purpose of proper oversight of the Project and coordination among its
ministries and agencies responsible for the Project, the Borrower shall maintain
throughout the period of Project implementation, with membership, terms of
reference and resources satisfactory to the Bank, a Steering Committee chaired by
a representative of the Ministry of Planning, and comprised of representatives of
all relevant ministries, the Project Cities, the private sector, and civil society
organizations.
2. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
throughout the period of implementation of the Project, maintain within
the Ministry of the President responsible for Territorial Planning and
Large-Scale Works (MPTPLSW), a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) with
terms of reference, staffing and resources acceptable to the Bank, to be
responsible for: (i) coordinating Project implementation and serving as
secretariat for the Steering Committee referred to above in Section I.A. 1
of this Schedule 2; (ii) managing all Project activities at the national level;
(iii) maintaining Project accounts and producing financial reports; and
(iv) monitoring, evaluating and reporting on Project implementation and
impacts;
(b) 
without limitation upon the foregoing, ensure that the PCU is at all times
equipped with at least the following staff with qualifications and
experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank: (i) a Project
coordinator; (ii) two civil engineers, one located in each of the Project
Cities; (iii) a financial management specialist; (iv) a certified accountant;
(v) a procurement specialist; (vi) an internal auditor; (vii) a social and
environmental safeguards specialist; (viii) a monitoring and evaluation
specialist; (ix) a communications specialist; (x) a local development
specialist; and (xi) an administrative assistant; and
(c) 
no later than 3 months after the Effective date, establish and maintain a
task force in the MCUDH, with composition and terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank, to assist the PCU to assure transfer of competences
and provide adequate incentives for civil servants therein to participate
fully in Project implementation.
-8-
3. 
The Borrower shall: (a) carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of
the Project implementation manual (PIM), provided, however, that in case of any
conflict between the provisions of the PIM and the provisions of this Agreement,
the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail; and (b) except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, shall not amend, abrogate or waive any provision of the PIM.
4. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
no later than (3) months after the Effective Date, recruit external auditors,
with qualifications, experience and terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank;
(b) 
no later than three (3) months from the Effective Date, install, within the
PCU, a computerized financial management and accounting system
satisfactory to the Bank and train the fiduciary staff in the use of the
software;
(c) 
no later than three (3) months from the Effective Date, recruit a
procurement specialist, an accountant, and a safeguards specialist, all with
qualifications, experience and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank;
(d) 
no later than six (3) months from the Effective Date, establish within the
PCU, a Project records keeping system, satisfactory to the Bank, and train
relevant staff; and
(e) 
no later than three (3) months from the Effective Date, ensure the training
of the PCU staff on World Bank procurement procedures, in specialized
training institutions.
B. 
Delegated Management Contracts
1 .
To facilitate the proper carrying out of Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall,
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, enter into a Delegated
Management Contract with each of the Project Cities: (i) allocating the respective
responsibilities of the Borrower and the Project City for the implementation of
said Part A and ensuring the provision of appropriate and timely support by the
Project City to the Borrower for the implementation of said Part A; and
(ii) obligating the Project City to: (A) carry out its activities in relation to the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
economic, financial, managerial, environmental and social standards and practices
satisfactory to the Bank, including in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of loan proceeds other than the
Borrower; and (B) maintain a financial management system and prepare financial
tatements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards
acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect its operations,
-9-
resources and expenditures related to the Project; and at the Bank's or the
Borrower's request, have such financial statements audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing
standards acceptable to the Bank, and promptly furnish the statements as so audited
to the Borrower and the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower shall: (a) ensure that the Delegated Management Contracts shall be
implemented with due diligence and efficiency; (b) shall exercise its rights and
carry out its obligations under said contracts in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan;
and (c) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive any of said contracts or any of their provisions.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D. 
Safeguards
1 .
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
Safeguards Instruments. To that end, the Borrower shall, for all activities proposed
for inclusion in each annual work plan ("Proposed Work Plan") to be prepared
under Section I.E of this Schedule 2 ("Proposed Activities"), take the actions
described in sub-paragraphs 2 through 7 below, in a manner acceptable to the
Bank.
2. 
The Borrower shall carry out an Environmental and Social Impact Assessment
(ESIA) of the Proposed Activities, disclose it locally and furnish it to the Bank,
before commencing any work necessitating such Environmental and Social Impact
Assessment.
3. 
If an Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP) would be required for
the Proposed Activities on the basis of the ESMF and the Environmental and Social
Impact Assessment, the Borrower shall prepare such Environmental and Social
Management Plan in accordance with the requirements of such Safeguards
Instruments, disclose it locally and furnish it to the Bank before commencing any
work necessitating such Environmental and Social Management Plan; and only
carry out the agreed Annual Work Plan in accordance with such Environmental
and Social Management Plan as approved by the Bank.
4. 
If a Resettlement Plan (RP) would be required for the Proposed Activities on the
basis of the RPF, the Borrower shall: (a) prepare said Resettlement Plan in
acc rdance with the requirements of the RPF, disclose it locally and furnish it to
th 
Bank 
before commencing any work necessitating land acquisition or
- 10 -
resettlement; and (b) ensure that no works shall be commenced until: (i) all
measures required to be taken under said Resettlement Plan prior to the initiation
of said activities have been taken; (ii) the Borrower has prepared and furnished to
the Bank a report in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, on the status of
compliance with the requirements of said Resettlement Plan; and (iii) the Bank has
confirmed that said activities may be commenced.
5. 
Without limitation upon any other provisions of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall: (a) prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after
the end of each calendar quarter, a report, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank, on the implementation of the Safeguards Instruments during such quarter,
together with any conditions which may interfere with such implementation and
measures designed to address such conditions; and (b) thereafter promptly
implement such measures with due diligence, taking into account the comments of
the Bank on the matter.
6. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.05 of the General Conditions,
the Borrower shall obtain all administrative, urban planning, and environmental
permits and authorizations required under the laws of the Borrower for the proper
implementation of the activities included in the agreed Annual Work Plan.
7. 
The Borrower shall, in addition to its counterpart funds for the Project agreed
pursuant to Part F of this Section, pay the full cost of any compensation in cash or
in kind to Project affected persons.
E. 
Annual Work Plans and Training
1 .
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
through the PCU, prepare under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank, not later than June 30 of each year during the
period of Project implementation, for the Bank's review and approval, an
Annual Work Plan of activities (including proposed and training and
workshop programs) proposed for inclusion in the Project during the
following calendar year, together with a budget and financing plan for
such activities and a timetable for their implementation, including amounts
of the Borrower's counterpart funding required for the purpose; and
(b) 
thereafter, allocate the necessary counterpart funds and carry out the
Project with due diligence during such following year in accordance with
such annual work plan as shall have been approved by the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that, in preparing any training or workshops proposed
f 
inclusion in the Project under an agreed Annual Work Plan it shall identify in
he work plan: (a) the objective and content of the training or workshop envisaged;
- 11 -
(b) the selection method of institutions or individuals conducting such training or
workshop; (c) the expected duration and an estimate of the cost of said training or
workshops; and (d) the personnel selected to attend the training or the workshop.
F. 
Project Counterpart Funds
1 .
The Borrower shall open and thereafter maintain, throughout the implementation
of the Project, in a financial institution and on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank, an account into which all counterpart funds required for the Project shall
be deposited and maintained until required to pay for expenditures under the
Project.
2. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.03 of the General Conditions,
the Borrower shall deposit into the Project's Counterpart Funds Account, in CFA
Francs, a total amount equivalent to forty million United States Dollars
($40,000,000), in accordance with the schedule specified in the PIM.
3. 
Notwithstanding the paragraphs 1 and 2 above, the Borrower shall: (a) make all
arrangements necessary to disburse at least 40 percent of its expected counterpart
contribution to the expenditures under the Project by no later than the date of the
midterm review carried out pursuant to Section II.A.2 of this Schedule, and the
remaining sixty percent (60%) of its expected counterpart contribution to the
expenditures under the Project by no later than the completion of the Project; and
(b) pay the full cost of any cash or in kind compensation of Project affected
persons, pursuant to the Resettlement Policy Framework; such funds to be in
addition to its counterpart funds required for the implementation of Parts A, B and
C of the Project.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1 .
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such
report.
2. 
The Borrower shall: (a) carry out, no later than thirty (30) months after the
Effective date, a midterm review to assess the overall progress in implementation
of the Project; (b) prepare and furnish to the Bank, at least one (1) month prior to
su 
review, a progress report on the implementation of the Project; and (c) review
w th the Bank such report, and take prompt measures required to ensure efficient
ompletion of the Project, taking into account the Bank's comments thereon.
( surevew,a pogres 
rpor ontheimplmenatin 
o th Proect an (c rei
- 12 -
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report,
not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim
unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts,
refer to the corresponding methods described in the Procurement Guidelines, or
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
ervices. The following methods, other than International competitive Bidding,
- 13 -
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) Limited International
Bidding; (b) National Competitive Bidding, subject to using the standard bidding
documents of the Bank or other bidding documents agreed upon with the Bank
prior to their use; (c) Shopping; (d) procurement under Framework Agreements in
accordance with procedures which have been found acceptable to the Bank;
(e) Direct Contracting; and (f) Community Participation procedures which have
been found acceptable to the Bank.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following
methods, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; (c) 
Least Cost Selection; (d) 
Selection based on Consultants'
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Procedures set
forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of
Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1I 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article 11 of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised
from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant
to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The f Ilowing table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
fina ced out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
- 14-
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non- 
80,000,000 
66.7%
consulting services,
consultants' services,
Training and Operating
Costs for the Project
TOTAL AMOUNT 
80,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the
Front-end Fee.
2. 
The Closing Date is May 18, 2021.
- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall repay
each Disbursed Amount in semiannual installments payable on each April 15 and
October 15, the first installment to be payable on the twenty-first (21st) Payment
Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount and the last
installment to be payable on the forty-eighth (48th) Payment Date following the
Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount. Each installment except for the
last one shall be equal to one-twenty-eighth (1/28) of the Disbursed Amount. The
last installment shall be equal to the remaining outstanding amount of the
Disbursed Amount.
2. 
If any one or more installments of principal of the Disbursed Amount would,
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph I of this Schedule, be payable after October
15, 2044, the Borrower shall also pay on such date the aggregate amount of all
such installments.
3. 
The Bank shall notify the Loan Parties of the amortization schedule for each
Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed
Amount.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 through 3 of this Schedule, in the
event of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed Amount to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in 
ch Loan Currency.
- 16 -
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Annual Work Plan" or "AWP" means the annual work plan of activities to be
included in the Project, and prepared by the Borrower and approved by the Bank
in accordance with the provisions of Section LE of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
4. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
5. 
"CFA Franc" means the franc of the Central Africa Economic and Monetary
Community, whose common central bank is the Bank of Central African States.
6. 
"Delegated Management Contract" means each of the delegated management
contracts referred to in Section I.B. 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, to be entered
into between the Borrower and a Project City in accordance with the provisions of
said Section.
7. 
"Environmental and Social Impact Assessment" means the environmental and
social impact assessment required pursuant to the ESMF, and to be prepared and
disclosed by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of Section I.D of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and approved by the Bank.
8. 
"Environmental 
and Social Management Plan" and "ESMP" means the
environmental and social management plan required pursuant to the ESMF and to
be prepared, disclosed and implemented by the Borrower in accordance with the
provisions of Section I.D of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and approved by the
Bank.
9. 
"ESMF" means the Borrower's environmental and social management framework
for the Project, set forth in the document entitled "Cadre De Gestion
Environnementale et Sociale" dated December 2014, approved by the Bank and
duly disclosed in the Borrower's territory on December 18, 2014, and in the Bank's
InfoShop on January 22, 2015.
10. 
"Fiscal Year" and "FY" means each fiscal year of the Borrower, commencing
J nuary I and ending December 31 of the same year.
- 17-
11. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
12. 
"Ministry of Planning" means the "Minist re de l'Economie, du Plan, de
l'Aminagement du Territoire et de l'Intigration", the Borrower's ministry
responsible for planning, and any successor thereto.
13. 
"Ministry of Construction, Urban Planning and Housing" or "MCUDH" means the
"Ministkre de la Construction, de l'Urbanisme et de l'Habitat", the Borrower's
ministry responsible for urban planning and housing, and any successor thereto.
14. 
"Ministry of the President responsible for Territorial Planning and Large-Scale
Works" or "MPTPLSW" means the Borrower's Minist re de Tamnagement du
territoire et de la delegation gindrale aux grands travaux, and any successor
thereto.
15. 
"Operating Costs" means the incremental expenses incurred on account of Project
implementation, consisting of reasonable expenditures for office supplies, vehicle
operation and maintenance, communication and insurance costs, banking charges,
rental expenses, office and office equipment maintenance, utilities, document
duplication/printing, consumables, travel cost and per diem for Project staff for
travel linked to the implementation of the Project, and salaries of contractual staff
for the Project, but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower's civil service.
16. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
17. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
January 14, 2016, and referred to in paragraph 1. 18 of the Procurement Guidelines
and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
18. 
"Project Cities" means the Borrower's cities of Brazzaville and Pointe Noire; and
"Project City" means either of the Project Cities.
19. 
"Project Coordination Unit" and "PCU" mean the unit referred to in Section I.A.2
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, to be established and to function in accordance
with the provisions of said Section.
20. 
"Project Counterpart Funds Account" means the account to be established and
main ined by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of Section I.F.2 of
Sch dule 2 to this Agreement.
- 18-
21. 
"Project Implementation Manual" or "PIM" means the manual to be prepared by
the Borrower containing detailed arrangements and procedures for the Project,
including, inter alia: (a) policies, administrative, and procurement procedures as
well as guidelines to be followed in the implementation and monitoring of the
Project; (b) the modalities for screening and approval of investments under Part A
of the Project; (c) the criteria related to staffing and budgeting and implementation
of asset management to be fulfilled by the municipalities as a condition of transfer
of implementation responsibility; (d) indicators on the performance of the PCU;
(e) the modalities for monitoring and evaluating the results of the Project; (f) the
procedures for community participation to operation and maintenance of
investments funded under the Project; (g) the schedule and amounts of the
Borrower's counterpart funding; and (h) the format and content of quarterly
progress reports; as the same may be amended and/or supplemented from time to
time; and such term includes any schedule to the PIM.
22. 
"Resettlement" means resettlement and rehabilitation of persons affected by the
implementation of the Project, including as a result of the acquisition of land and
other assets, and loss of access to land, other assets or income, whether permanent
or temporary.
23. 
"Resettlement Plan" means the resettlement plan required pursuant to the RPF for
any activities involving involuntary resettlement of persons, and to be prepared,
disclosed and implemented by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of
Section L.D of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and approved by the Bank, containing,
inter alia, a program of actions, measures and policies for the compensation,
resettlement and rehabilitation of persons affected by the implementation of the
Project, as the case may be, including as a result of the acquisition of land and
other assets, and loss of access to land, other assets or income, whether permanent
or temporary, together with adequate institutional, monitoring, reporting and
grievance redressal arrangements capable of ensuring proper implementation of, and
regular compliance with, its terms, as such Plan may be updated from time to time
with the prior approval of the Borrower and the Bank; and "Resettlement Plans" or
"RPs" mean more than one such RP.
24. 
"RPF" means the Borrower's resettlement policy framework for the Project, set
forth in the document entitled "Cadre de Politique de Reinstallation" dated
December 2014, approved by the Bank, and duly disclosed in the Borrower's
territory on December 18, 2014, and in the Bank's InfoShop on February 9, 2015.
25. 
"Safeguards Instruments" means the ESMF, the RPF, and all Environmental and
Social Impact Assessments, related ESMPs, and Resettlement Plans for the
Project.
26. 
"Steering Committee" or "SC" means the steering committee referred to in Section
.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
- 19-
27. 
"Training" means the reasonable costs associated with training and workshop
participation under the Project, consisting of travel and subsistence costs for
training participants, costs associated with securing the services of trainers, rental
of training facilities, preparation and reproduction of training materials, and other
costs directly related to course or workshop preparation and implementation.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.0 1(b)."
5. 
Renumbered 
paragraph 
21 
(originally 
paragraph 
20) of the 
Appendix
("Conversion Date") is modified to read as follows:
"21. 
"Conversion Date" means, for a Conversion, the Execution Date or such
other date as the Bank shall determine on which the Conversion enters into effect,
as f rther specified in the Conversion Guidelines; provided that if the Loan
Agr ement provides for automatic Conversions into the Approved Currency upon
- 20 -
withdrawal of amounts of the Loan, the Conversion Date shall be the date of
withdrawal from the Loan Account of the amount in respect of which the
Conversion has been requested."
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.0 1(a).
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any
prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of
a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable
upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any
Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
8. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
d 
nition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
e words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
