LOAN NUMBER 8555-MX
Loan Agreement
(Expanding Rural Finance Project)
between
FINANCIERA NACIONAL DE DESARROLLO AGROPECUARIO, RURAL,
FORESTAL Y PESQUERO
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
,2016
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated A 
1 -
, 2016, between FINANCIERA NACIONAL DE
DESARROLLO AGROPECUARIO, RURAL, FORESTAL Y PESQUERO ('FND")
("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
Noting that the Borrower has informed the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan shall
be used in conformity with the requirements of the United Mexican States
budgetary and public debt laws and the terms of this Agreement, but without
limitation to the provisions of Section 8.01 of the General Conditions, the Bank
agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, the amount of four hundred million Dollars ($400,000,000), as
such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion
in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to
assist the Borrower in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower's Representative for purposes
of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is its
Director General Adjunto de Finanzas y Operaciones.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
-2-
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are February 1 and August 1 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-3-
2.09. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.08 (a) of this Agreement and
unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in accordance with the
provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, any amount withdrawn from the Loan
Account shall be converted from Dollars to Mexican Pesos for the longest maturity
available in the market for the Conversion of such amount with effect from the
Conversion Date. Each such Conversion shall be effected on such terms and
conditions as may be separately agreed by the Bank and the Borrower.
2.10. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure
Limit (as said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of
this Section), the Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of
one half of one percent (0.5%) per annum of the Allocated 
Excess
Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for
each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if any)
shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set
forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during
which the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit,
the product of: (A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the
ratio of all (or, if the Bank so determines, a portion) of the Loan
to the aggregate amount of all (or the equivalent portions) of the
loans made by the Bank to the Borrower, the Guarantor and to
other borrowers guaranteed by the Guarantor that are also subject
to an exposure surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably
determined from time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the
Bank's financial exposure to the Guarantor, which, if exceeded,
would subject the Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined
from time to time by the Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total
financial exposure to the Guarantor, as reasonably determined by
the Bank.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions.
-4-
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that
at least one Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and an Eligible PFI.
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Director General.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Financiera Nacional de Desarrollo Agropecuario,
Rural, Forestal y Pesquero
Agrarismo 227 Col. Escand6n
C.P. 11800, Delegaci6n Miguel Hidalgo
Distrito Federal
M6xico
Telex: 
Facsimile:
525552301600 
5255 5230 1600 Fax. ext. 1641
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at M)tX 
\C 
MEC\ 0O 
, as of the day and year
first above written.
FINANCIERA NACIONAL DE
DESARROLLO AGROPECUARIO,
RURAL, FORESTAL Y PESQUERO
By
AAuthorized Representative
Name: Juan Carlos Cort6s Garcia
Title: Director General
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DE 
L 
ENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: Gerardo M. Corrochano
Title: Country Director
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to expand the availability of finance to the rural economy.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. Expanding Credit for Rural MSMEs
(a) 
Provision of Sub-Loans by Eligible PFIs to carry out Subprojects to support rural
financing needs of Eligible Beneficiaries.
(b) 
Designing, implementing and evaluating a pilot program for the provision of Sub-
Loans for Financial Products by the Borrower or by Eligible PFIs to support rural
financing needs of Eligible Beneficiaries.
Part 2. Strengthening Institutional Capacity for Sustainable Rural Finance
(a) 
Provision of support for the design, acquisition and implementation of a banking
IT platform for the Borrower.
(b) 
Providing support to Eligible PFIs and PFIs for the development of a sound rural
financial sector.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
The Borrower shall maintain, throughout Project implementation, a Project team
composed by key staff with functions, experience, responsibilities and
qualifications acceptable to the Bank, as set forth in the Operational Manual,
including, inter alia: a Project coordinator, a fiduciary specialist and a social and
environmental specialist.
B. 
Operational Manual
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of a
manual (the Operational Manual) satisfactory to the Bank, containing, inter alia:
(i) specific provisions on detailed arrangements for the carrying out of the Project;
(ii) the procurement, financial management and disbursement requirements
thereof; (iii) the performance indicators; (iv) the template of a 
Subsidiary
Financing Agreement (including the terms and conditions of 
a Sub-Loan
Agreement); (v) the procedure for the selection of the Eligible PFIs; (vi) the
eligibility criteria for the selection of Eligible Beneficiaries; (v) the EMF; (viii) the
IPPF; and (ix) the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
2 
The Borrower shall not amend or waive or fail to enforce any provision of the
Operational Manual without the Bank's prior written approval. In case of any
conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and those of this Agreement,
the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
C. 
Line of Credit
1. 
Prior to the provision of any Sub-Loan under Part 1 of the Project, the Borrower
shall:
(a) 
select each Eligible PFI in accordance with the criteria set forth in the
Operational Manual;
(b) 
make part of the proceeds of the Loan available to each Eligible PFI under
a Subsidiary Financing Agreement signed between the Borrower and the
Eligible PFI, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank and set
forth in the Operational Manual including, inter alia, the PFI's obligations
to: (i) provide Sub-Loans to Eligible Beneficiaries; and (ii) comply with
-8-
the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and the safeguards provisions set forth in
this Schedule;
(c) 
ensure that, prior to the provision of a Sub-Loan to an Eligible Beneficiary
by a pertinent Eligible PFI, said Eligible PFI enters into a Sub-Loan
Agreement with said Eligible Beneficiary, under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the Operational Manual including,
inter alia, the Eligible Beneficiary's obligation to carry out the Subproject
in accordance with the Anti-Corruption Guidelines;
(d) 
for purposes of carrying out Part 1(b) of the Project (and unless a Sub-
Loan is provided to an Eligible Beneficiary by an Eligible PFI), provide a
Sub-Loan to an Eligible Beneficiary under a FND Sub-Loan Agreement
signed between the Borrower and the Eligible Beneficiary, under terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the Operational
Manual including, inter alia, the Eligible Beneficiary's obligation to carry
out the Subproject in accordance with the Anti-Corruption Guidelines; and
(e) 
notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraphs (a) - (d) above, the
Borrower shall, prior to the provision of any Sub-Loan under Part 1 (b) of
the Project, develop proposals detailing the Financial Products to be
financed under said part of the Project and the process of providing such
Sub-loans, including selection criteria for Eligible Beneficiaries; such
proposals to be acceptable to the Bank and to be included in the
Operational Manual.
2. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each Subsidiary
Financing Agreement and each FND Sub-Loan Agreement in such a
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. The Borrower, shall not amend,
suspend, terminate or waive any provision of any Subsidiary Financing
Agreement in such a manner so as to affect materially and adversely, in
the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Borrower to comply with its
Project related obligations set forth in this Agreement; and
(b) 
ensure that each Eligible PFI exercises its rights and carries out its
obligations under each Sub-Loan Agreement in such a manner as to protect
the interests of the Eligible PFI, the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. The Borrower shall ensure that each
Eligible PFI shall not amend, suspend, terminate or waive any provision
of any Sub-Loan Agreement in such a manner so as to affect materially
and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of said Eligible PFI
-9-
and the Borrower to comply with its Project related obligations set forth
in this Agreement.
D. 
Anti-Corruption
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
E. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
carry out the Project, and ensure that each Eligible PFI carries out its
activities under the Project, in accordance with the EMF.
(b) 
carry out the Project in accordance with the IPPF.
(c) 
ensure, and cause each Eligible PFI to ensure that no Project activities: (i)
involve Involuntary Resettlement; and/or (ii) require the use of
International Waterways.
Section H. 
Project Monitoring Reporting! and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports and Mid-Term Review
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators set forth in the Operational Manual. Each
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the period
covered by such report.
2. 
By June 30, 2018, or such other date as the Bank shall agree upon, the Borrower
shall carry out jointly with the Bank a mid-term review of the implementation of
activities under the Project (Mid-Term Review). The Mid-Term Review shall
cover the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project. Following such
Mid-Term Review, the Borrower shall act promptly and diligently to take any
action as shall be recommended by the Bank.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
-10-
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty (45) days
after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the
Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have the Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. 
Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than six months after the end of such period.
4. 
The Borrower shall have its own financial statements audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing
standards acceptable to the Bank. Each audit of said financial statements shall
cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. 
The audited financial
statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six
months after the end of such period.
Section HI. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1 .
Goods and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods and non-consulting services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I
of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
4. 
Special Provisions. The Borrower shall: (a) supply the SEPA or any other system
that shall be duly informed by the Bank with information contained in the initial
Procurement Plan within thirty (30) days after the date of this Agreement; and (b)
thereafter, update the Procurement Plan at least once a year, or as required by the
Bank, to reflect the actual Project implementation needs and progress, and supply
the system mentioned above with the information contained in the updated
Procurement Plan immediately thereafter.
-11-
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive Bidding; (b) Shopping; (c) Direct
Contracting; and (d) Well-established Private Sector Procurement Methods or
Commercial Practices which have been found acceptable to the Bank.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; (d) Selection based on Consultants'
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Well-
established Private Sector Procurement Methods or Commercial Practices which
have been found acceptable to the Bank; (g) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2
and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants;
and (h) Single-source procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised
from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant
-12-
to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) (a) Sub-loans under 
364,000,000 
100%
Part 1 (a) of the
Project
(b) Sub-loans under 
10,000,000
Part 1 (b) of the Project 
100%
(2) Goods, Non- 
25,000,000 
100%
Consulting Services,
Consultant's Services,
Capacity Building and
Project Incremental
Costs under Part 2 of
the Project
(3) Front-end Fee 
1,000,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this Agreement
in accordance with Section
2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions
(4) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar 
Section 2.08(c) of this
premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
400,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made from the Loan Account for payments made prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
$80,000,000 may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after the
date twelve (12) months prior to the date of this Agreement, for Eligible
Expenditures under the Project.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2020.
-13-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall repay
each Disbursed Amount in semiannual installments payable on each February 1
and August 1, the first installment to be payable on the second (2nd) Payment Date
following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount and the last
installment to be payable on the thirtieth (30th) Payment Date following the
Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount. Each installment except for the
last one shall be equal to one-twenty-ninth (1/29) of the Disbursed Amount. The
last installment shall be equal to the remaining outstanding amount of the
Disbursed Amount.
2. 
If any one or more installments of principal of the Disbursed Amount would,
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph I of this Schedule, be payable after August
1, 2035, the Borrower shall also pay on such date the aggregate amount of all such
installments.
3. 
The Bank shall notify the Loan Parties of the amortization schedule for each
Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed
Amount.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 through 3 of this Schedule, in the
event of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed Amount to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency.
-14-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Capacity Building" means reasonable expenditures (other than consultants'
services and non-consulting services) incurred in connection with capacity
building activities under Part 2 of the Project.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
4. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
5. 
"Eligible Beneficiary" means an individual or rural MSME, eligible for receiving
a Sub-Loan under Part 1 of the Project, based on the criteria set forth in the
Operational Manual; collectively referred to as "Eligible Beneficiaries".
6. 
"Eligible PFI" means credit unions, cooperatives, deposit warehouses, multiple
purpose financial companies, agricultural producer associations, banks serving the
rural economy or any other entity incorporated in accordance with Article 33
section XI of the Ley Orgdnica de la Financiera Nacional de Desarrollo
Agropecuario, Rural, Forestal y Pesquero, dated December 26, 2002 and other
applicable Guarantor's laws and regulations and selected by the Borrower to
participate in the Project through the provision of Sub-Loans to Eligible
Beneficiaries, pursuant to criteria set forth in the Operational Manual, collectively
referred to as "Eligible PFIs".
7. 
"Environmental Management Framework" or "EMF" means the Borrower's
framework acceptable to the Bank, as published and available to the public on
August 14, 2015, which contains: (i) guidelines for the identification of existing
environmental 
and 
social conditions 
and potential direct and 
indirect
environmental and social impacts and risks resulting from the carrying out of
Subprojects; (ii) a list of activities not eligible for financing under Subprojects ;
(iii) recommendation of mitigation measures for each negative impact identified;
(iv) measures for enhancing each identified positive impact, as said framework
may be amended from time to time with the Bank's prior approval.
-15-
8. 
"Financial Products" means any of the following products to be financed through
the provision of a Sub-Loan under Part 1 (b) of the Project, including inter alia:
(a) leasing; (b) moveable assets finance; (c) factoring; (d) warehouse receipts; (e)
contract farming; (f) agricultural commodity price hedge; and (g) other types of
value chain financing, as may be agreed between the Bank and the Borrower and
set forth in the Operational Manual.
9. 
"FND" or Financiera Nacional de Desarrollo Agropecuario, Rural, Forestal y
Pesquero means the Guarantor's Rural Financial Development Agency,
established pursuant to Ley Orgdnica de la Financiera Nacional de Desarrollo
Agropecuario, Rural, Forestal y Pesquero, dated December 26, 2002, as further
amended.
10. 
"FND Sub-Loan Agreement" means the agreement entered or to be entered into
between the Borrower and each Eligible Beneficiary pursuant to Section I.C. 1(d)
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
11. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
12. 
"Indigenous Peoples' Planning Framework" or "IPPF" means the Borrower's
framework acceptable to the Bank, as published and available to the public on
August 14, 2015, detailing measures to mitigate any adverse impact on indigenous
peoples as a result of any activity carried out under the Project, and to ensure that
indigenous peoples benefit from the Project, including putting in place institutional
arrangements for screening Project-related activities, evaluating their effects on
indigenous peoples and addressing any grievances.
13. 
"International Waterways" means: (a) any river, canal, lake, or similar body of
water on the territory of the Guarantor that forms a boundary between, or any river
or body of surface water that flows through, two or more states, whether Bank
members or not; (b) any tributary or other body of surface water on the territory of
the Guarantor that is a component of any waterway described in (a) above; and (c)
any bay, gulf, strait, or channel on the territory of the Guarantor bounded by two
or more states or, if within one state, recognized as a necessary channel of
communication between the open sea and other states, and any river flowing into
such waters.
14. 
"Involuntary Resettlement" means the impact of an involuntary taking of land
under the Project, which taking causes affected persons to have their: (i) standard
of living adversely affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land
(including premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable
asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) access to
productive assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (iv) business,
-16-
occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily
or permanently.
15. 
"IT" means information technology.
16. 
"Mid-Term Review" means the review of Project implementation set forth in
Section II.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
17. 
"Mexican Pesos" means the lawful currency of the United Mexican States.
18. 
"MSME" means a micro, small or medium-sized enterprise, defined as such in the
Operational Manual; collectively referred to as "MSMEs".
19. 
"Operational Manual" means the manual set forth in Section I.B. 1 of Schedule 2
to this Agreement, which may be amended from time to time in a manner
acceptable to the Bank.
20. 
"PFI" means a financial intermediary, a credit union, cooperative, deposit
warehouse, multiple purpose financial company, agricultural producer association,
bank serving the rural economy or any other entity incorporated in accordance with
Article 33 section XI of the Ley Orgdnica de la Financiera Nacional de Desarrollo
Agropecuario, Rural, Forestal y Pesquero, dated December 26, 2002 and other
applicable Guarantor's laws and regulations and selected by the Borrower to
benefit from activities under Part 2(b) of the Project.
21. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
22. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
October 13, 2015 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines
and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
23. 
"Project Incremental Costs" means the reasonable incremental operating
expenditures, based on an allocation previously approved by the Bank and the
Borrower, incurred by the Borrower, required for an efficient Project
implementation, administration, supervision, monitoring and evaluation, including
the operation and maintenance costs of the Borrower, but excluding salaries of the
Borrower's employees; as such expenditures are set forth in the Operational
Manual.
24. 
"SEPA" means the Bank's publicly accessible Procurement Plans Execution
System.
-17-
25. 
"Sub-Loan" means: (a) a loan made by an Eligible PFI, out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to Category (1) (a) of the table set forth in Section
[V.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, for purposes of financing all or a portion of
the expenditures incurred by an Eligible Beneficiary for the carrying out of a
Subproject under Part 1 (a) of the Project; or (b) a loan made by an Eligible PFI
or the Borrower, out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
Category (1) (b) of the table set forth in Section IV.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, for purposes of providing financing to Eligible Beneficiary for
Financial Products under Part 1 (b) of the Project..
26. 
"Sub-Loan Agreement" means the agreement entered or to be entered into between
the Borrower and the Eligible Beneficiary pursuant to Section I.C. 1(c) of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
27. 
"Subproject" means a specific investment or activities to be carried out under Part
1 (a) of the Project, selected in accordance with the criteria set forth in the
Operational Manual, which is proposed to be carried out by an Eligible
Beneficiary, in whole or in part through the utilization of the proceeds of a Sub-
Loan.
28. 
"Subsidiary Financing Agreement" means the agreement entered or to be entered
into between the Borrower and the Eligible PFI pursuant to Section I.C. 1 (b) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section I. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1 .
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. 
The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date."
-18-
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
Renumbered paragraph 
21 
(originally 
paragraph 
20) of the Appendix
("Conversion Date") is modified to read as follows:
"21. 
"Conversion Date" means, for a Conversion, the Execution Date or such
other date as the Bank shall determine on which the Conversion enters into effect,
as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines; provided that if the Loan
Agreement provides for automatic Conversions into the Approved Currency upon
withdrawal of amounts of the Loan, the Conversion Date shall be the date of
withdrawal from the Loan Account of the amount in respect of which the
Conversion has been requested."
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any
surcharge, any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early
termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any
premium payable upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
8. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
