OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8625-MD
Loan Agreement
(Tax Administration Modernization Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
/ 
/ e 
, 
, 2016
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8625-MD
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
6/ 
? of 
,2016, between
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of twelve million five hundred eighty
thousand United States Dollars (US$12,580,000), as such amount may be
converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with
the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing
the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower's Representative for purposes
of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is
the Chairman of STS.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
-2-
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall carry out the Project, through STS, in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that the
legal instrument referred to in Section 5.01 (a) of the Financing Agreement has
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under this Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to
the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that
the Financing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all conditions
precedent to its effectiveness (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement) have
been fulfilled.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Recipient's
Representative is its Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Constantin Tanase Street, 7
MD2005 Chisinau
Republic of Moldova
Facsimile: (37322) 225393
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
-4-
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
AGREED at Chisinau, Republic of Moldova, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
By
A 
orized Representative
Title: 
0Z/7/ 
3 
/ 
/7n/ 
Cn
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCT 
N AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: kt 
aw& 
tt~i
Title: (6 LUk/ /..9qaaz
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve revenue collection, tax compliance and
taxpayer services in the Republic of Moldova.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. Tax Policy Reform
Provision of support for, inter alia:
(a) 
(i) the carrying out of a comprehensive review of the Borrower's tax legal
framework, and, based on said review, the preparation of a draft tax code;
(ii) the drafting of legislation to introduce measures to counter tax
avoidance profit shifting and tax base erosion; and (iii) the design and
implementation of a Training program on the review of the Borrower's tax
legal framework carried out under Parts (a) (i) and (ii) above.
(b) 
the 
review 
of the 
Borrower's 
tax 
ruling 
system, 
including
recommendations to strengthen its institutional structures and processes;
and
(c) 
the carrying out of a comprehensive analysis of the Borrower's local
budgets' revenues, including the legal and institutional framework for
their administration.
Part 2. Institutional Development
Provision of support for the carrying out of a comprehensive review, redesign and
implementation of the revised STS organization structure, including through inter alia: (a)
the strengthening of STS operational and institutional capacity for strategic management
and performance assessment; (b) the design and implementation of a performance
management system, including the elaboration of performance indicators, and a career
management framework; (c) the carrying out of a comprehensive review of STS human
resources policies; (d) the carrying out of an analysis of STS work flow and workforce
planning; (e) the development of a training program and a curriculum for STS tax
administration staff; (f) the purchase and installation of technical and training equipment;
(g) the design and implementation of a communication strategy on the revised STS
organization structure; (h) the carrying out of other relevant training activities; and (i) the
carrying out of regular taxpayer satisfaction surveys.
-6-
Part 3. Operational Development
Provision of support for strengthening STS operational efficiency through the
modernization of all critical tax collection operational functions and the analysis of case-
workflow management for appeals, audits and collection, including, inter alia:
(a) 
drafting procedure manuals and processes for STS collection activities,
carrying out training needs analyses, and developing a training program
relevant to payment processing units;
(b) 
improving compliance risk management and audit practices by developing
an integrated database of taxpayers, strengthening systems and developing
a protocol for the collection, use and dissemination of data gathered from
third party sources;
(c) 
enhancing capacity to collect and manage debt through the review of
current regulations, rules and procedures; development of: (i) manuals for
tax debt management, 
arrears 
collection 
and gap filer/non-filer
enforcement; and (ii) a training program on management and recovery of
arrears and enforced filing of returns;
(d) 
fostering transparency and streamlining the appeals process through the:
(i) development of a training program on relevant MoF and STS business
processes and computer systems for staff of STS legal department; and (ii)
improvement of case workflow management of appeals and rulings in said
legal department; and
(e) 
strengthening of the STS audit function to counter tax violations through
the provision of technical assistance and training.
Part 4. IT Infrastructure and System Modernization
Provision of support for the purchase and installation of an integrated tax management
system, including the provision of relevant training regarding, inter alia, its functions,
management reporting and document management tools.
Part 5. Project Management and Change Management
(a) 
Carrying out of capacity building activities supporting the Borrower's change
management process to implement the activities referred to in Parts 1 to 4 above, including:
(i) the carrying out of awareness campaigns and training activities on the implementation
of said reforms; and (ii) the establishment of a private sector advisory panel for citizen
engagement; and
-7-
(b) 
Project implementation, monitoring and evaluation including through: (i) the
carrying out of the Project audits; (ii) the hiring and selection of, inter alia, a financial
management and a procurement specialists; and (iii) the financing of Operating Costs.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall vest the overall responsibility for the implementation of the
Project in STS, and to this end, through STS, shall: (a) operate and maintain,
throughout Project implementation, the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) with
qualified staff in sufficient numbers, as well as adequate funds, premises, services
and other resources for Project implementation (including, procurement, financial
management and monitoring and evaluation), all acceptable to the Bank and
described in the Project Operational Manual; (b) ensure that any staff of the PIU
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is selected and hired in accordance with
Section III of this Schedule; and (c) no later than ninety (90) days after the
Effective Date, have selected and hired the financial management and procurement
specialists referred to in Part 5 (b)(ii) of the Project in a manner acceptable to the
Bank.
2. 
The Borrower shall operate and maintain, throughout Project implementation, a
committee (Steering Committee) vested with the responsibility to oversee and
coordinate Project implementation, with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank,
as described in the POM.
3. 
The Borrower, through STS, shall: (a) implement the Project in accordance with
the requirements set forth in a manual acceptable to the Bank (Project Operational
Manual or POM); and (b) not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive the POM or any
of its provisions, except with the prior written approval of the Bank. In case of
any conflict between the terms of the POM and those of this Agreement, the terms
and conditions of this Agreement shall prevail.
4. 
No later than ninety (90) days after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall, through
STS, establish and operate, throughout Project implementation, a private sector
advisory panel vested with the responsibility to facilitate citizen engagement in the
implementation of Project activities, with terms of reference and membership
acceptable to the Bank, as described in the POM.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
-9-
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower, through STS, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project
and prepare the Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08
of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators acceptable to the Bank.
Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period
covered by such report.
2. 
(a) 
By June 15, 2019, or such other date as agreed by the Bank, the Borrower,
through STS, shall carry out jointly with the Bank, a mid-term review of
the implementation of the activities under the Project ("Mid-term
Review") which shall cover the progress achieved in the implementation
of the Project.
(b) 
Following such Mid-term Review, the Borrower, through STS, shall act
promptly and diligently to take, or cause to be taken, any corrective action
as shall have been agreed with the Bank.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained, a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower,
through STS, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45)
days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for
the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through STS, shall have its Financial Statements audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each
audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the
Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
-10-
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods and non-consulting services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I
of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section (including
Annex A to this Schedule).
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional
provisions specified in Annex A to this Schedule; (b) Shopping; and (c) Direct
Contracting.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; 
(c) 
Least-Cost 
Selection; 
(d) 
Selection based on Consultants'
-11-
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Procedures set
forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of
Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
2. 
The Borrower, through STS, shall: (a) no later than December 31 of every year
during the implementation of the Project, beginning on December 31, 2017,
prepare and furnish to the Bank, a procurement progress report (Procurement
Report) in form and substance acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, inter
alia: (i) a description of the issues which arose during the full procurement cycle
under the Project during the twelve months preceding the date of presentation of
each Procurement Report, from design through planning, bidding, contract
implementation and completion; (ii) a list of proposed measures and actions to be
taken to resolve the issues identified under (i) above; and (iii) a proposed timeline
for the implementation of the said measures and actions; and (b) thereafter
implement, or cause to be implemented, the proposed measures and actions under
each Procurement Report in accordance with its terms and in a manner acceptable
to the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised
from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant
to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
-12-
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, non-consulting 
12,580,000 
100%
services, consultants'
services, Training and
Operating Costs for the
Project
TOTAL AMOUNT 
12,580,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the
Front-end fee; and
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2021.
-13-
ANNEX A
to
SCHEDULE 2
Additional Provisions Relating to Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-
consulting Services under Bank-Financed Contracts Subject to National
Competitive Bidding
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
Section I and paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Procurement Guidelines, the procurement
procedure to be followed for National Competitive Bidding shall be the Open Bidding
Procedure set forth in the Law on Procurement No. 96-XVI, dated April 13, 2007, as further
amended on September 17, 2010, December 23, 2011, March 30, 2012, April 12, 2012,
June 15, 2012, and June 14, 2013, and to be superseded by the Law On Procurement No.
131, dated July 3, 2015, when it is made effective, (the "PPL"), provided, however, that
such procedure shall be subject to the following additional provisions:
1. 
Eligibility: Eligibility to participate in a procurement process and to be awarded a
Bank-financed contract shall be as defined under Section I of the Procurement
Guidelines; accordingly, no bidder or potential bidder shall be declared ineligible
for contracts financed by the Bank for reasons other than those provided in Section
I of the Procurement Guidelines.
2. 
Registration of Contractors and Suppliers: Registration shall not be used to assess
bidders' qualifications. A foreign bidder shall not be required to register as a
condition for submitting its bid, and a foreign bidder recommended for contract
award shall be given a reasonable opportunity to register, with the reasonable
cooperation of the Borrower, prior to contract signing.
3. 
Participation of Joint Ventures: Participation of Joint Ventures shall be allowed
and all its members shall be jointly and severally liable for the entire contract.
4. 
Bidding Documents: Bidding documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used, and
shall be prepared so as to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency, and broad
consistency with the provisions of Section I of the Procurement Guidelines.
5. 
Qualification: Qualification criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding
documents. All criteria so specified, and only such specified criteria, shall be used
to determine whether a bidder is qualified. Qualification shall be assessed on a
"pass or fail" basis, and merit points shall not be used. Such assessment shall be
based entirely upon the bidder's or prospective bidder's capability and resources
to effectively perform the contract, taking into account objective and measurable
factors, including: (i) relevant general and specific experience, and satisfactory
past performance and successful completion of similar contracts over a given
period; (ii) financial position; and where relevant; (iii) capability of construction
-14-
and/or manufacturing facilities. Prequalification procedures and documents
acceptable to the Bank shall be used for large, complex and/or specialized works.
The verification of the information upon which a bidder was prequalified,
including current commitments, shall be carried out at the time of contract award,
along with the bidder's capability with respect to personnel and equipment. In the
procurement of goods and works where pre-qualification is not used, the
qualification of the bidder who is recommended for award of contract shall be
assessed by post-qualification, applying the qualification criteria stated in the
bidding documents.
6. 
Cost Estimate: The detailed cost estimates shall be confidential and shall not be
disclosed to prospective bidders. The cost estimate will include all taxes including
Value Added Tax. No bids shall be rejected on the basis of comparison with the
cost estimates without the Bank's prior written concurrence.
7. 
Bid Submission and Bid Opening: Prospective bidders shall be given at least thirty
(30) days from the date of publication of the invitation to bid or the date of
availability of the bidding documents, whichever is later, to prepare and submit
bids. Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for submission
of bids. Bids received after the deadline for bid submission shall be rejected and
returned to bidders unopened. A copy of the bid opening minutes shall be promptly
provided to all bidders who submitted bids, and to the Bank with respect to
contracts subject to the Bank's prior review.
8. 
Bid Evaluation: Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the
evaluation criteria specified in the bidding documents. Evaluation criteria other
than price shall be quantified in monetary terms. Merit points shall not be used,
and no minimum point or percentage value shall be assigned to the significance of
price, in bid evaluation. Contracts shall be awarded to the qualified bidder whose
bid has been determined: (i) to be substantially responsive to the bidding
documents; and (ii) to offer the lowest-evaluated cost. No negotiations shall be
permitted. A bidder shall not be required, as a condition for award, to undertake
obligations not specified in the bidding documents or otherwise to modify the bid
as originally submitted. A bidder shall not be eliminated from detailed evaluation
on the basis of minor, non-substantial deviations.
9. 
Rejection of All Bids and Re-bidding: All bids (or the sole bid if only one bid is
received) shall not be rejected, the procurement process shall not be cancelled, and
new bids shall not be solicited without the Bank's prior written concurrence.
10. 
Bid Validity: The bid validity period required by the bidding documents shall be
sufficient to account for any period that may be required for the approval and
registration of the contract as contemplated in the PPL. If justified by exceptional
circumstances, an extension of bid validity may be requested in writing from all
bidders before the original bid validity expiration date, provided that such
-15-
extension shall cover only the minimum period required to complete the
evaluation, award a contract, and/or complete the registration process, but not more
than thirty (30) days; a corresponding extension of any bid guarantee also shall be
required in such cases. A Bidder may refuse the request for extension of bid
validity without forfeiting its bid guarantee. No further extensions shall be
requested without the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
11. 
Guarantees: Guarantees shall be in the format included in the bidding documents.
The bid guarantee shall be valid for twenty-eight days (28) beyond the original
validity period of the bid, or beyond any period of extension if requested. No
advance payments shall be made without a suitable advance payment guarantee.
Performance security shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of the contract amount.
12. 
Fraud and Corruption: The bidding documents and contract as deemed acceptable
by the Bank shall include provisions stating the Bank's policy to sanction firms or
individuals, found to have engaged in fraud and corruption as defined in the
Procurement Guidelines.
13. 
Inspection and Audit Rights: Each bidding document and contract financed out the
proceeds of the Loan shall provide that bidders, suppliers and contractors, and their
subcontractors, agents, personnel, consultants, service providers, or suppliers, shall
permit the Bank to inspect all accounts, records, and other documents relating to
the submission of bids and contract performance, and to have them audited by
auditors appointed by the Bank. Acts intended to materially impede the exercise
of the Bank's inspection and audit rights provided for in the Procurement
Guidelines constitute an obstructive practice as defined in the Guidelines.
14. 
Contract Modifications: With respect to contracts subject to the Bank's prior
review, the Borrower shall obtain the Bank's no objection before agreeing to: (i)
a material extension of the stipulated time for performance of a contract; (ii) any
substantial modification of the scope of services or other significant changes to the
terms and conditions of the contract; (iii) any variation order or amendment (except
in cases of extreme urgency) which, singly or combined with all variation orders
or amendments previously issued, increases the original contract amount by more
than fifteen percent (15%); or (iv) the proposed termination of the contract. A
copy of all contract amendments shall be provided to the Bank.
-16-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each June 15 and December 15
2%
Beginning June 15, 2021
through December 15, 2045
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
-17-
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
-18-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
3. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
4. 
"Financing Agreement" means the agreement between the Borrower and the
Association for the Project, of the same date as this Agreement, as such agreement
may be amended from time to time. 
"Financing Agreement" includes all
appendices, schedules and agreements supplemental to the Financing Agreement.
5. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
6. 
"IT" means Information Technology.
7. 
"Mid-term Review" means the review of the implementation of activities under
the Project referred to in Section II.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
8. 
"Ministry of Finance" or "MoF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance, or any
legal successor thereto.
9. 
"Operating Costs" means the reasonable operational costs (which would not have
been incurred absent the Project), incurred by STS related to Project
implementation, including inter alia, the costs of communication, supplies,
printing and publications, office maintenance and utilities, bank charges, salaries
of staff working for the Project (including associated taxes and charges for
insurance, as determined by the Bank, but excluding salaries of the Recipient's
civil servants), logistics services (other than those related to Training), and such
other expenditures as may be agreed upon by the Bank, all based on semi-annual
budgets acceptable to the Bank.
10. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
-19-
11. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
April 26, 2016 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines
and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
12. 
"Project Operational Manual" or "POM" means the Borrower's manual referred
to in Section I.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
13. 
"State Tax Service" or "STS" means the Borrower's State Tax Service
subordinated to the Ministry of Finance, established pursuant to the Borrower's
Law No. 407-XV, dated July 26, 2001, or any successor thereto.
14. 
"Training" means the expenses (other than those for consultants' services) incurred
by the Borrower to finance the reasonable travel costs (i.e. accommodation,
transportation, travel insurance and per diem, inter alia) of trainees and trainers (if
applicable), training registration fees, catering, rental of training facilities and
equipment, logistics and printing services, as well as training materials, all for the
purposes of, and directly related to, the training activities (including study tours)
described in the Project, all based on semi-annual budgets acceptable to the Bank.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1 .
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan
amount at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement
(the "Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective
dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan
Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-
annually in arrears on each Payment Date."
-20-
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified
in the Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.0 1(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties
to the Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions,
including (but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance,
interest, the Front-end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default
Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a
Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread
Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount
payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
