OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8634-AR
Loan Agreement
(Additional Financing for the Unleashing Productive Innovation Project)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated as of the Signature Date, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
("Borrower") 
and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing additional financing for activities
related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of forty five million Dollars
($45,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General
Conditions.
-2-
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower through: (a) ANPCyT, shall carry out Parts 1, 2 (b) and (c), 3, 4 (a)
and 5 (f) of the Project; and (b) through MINCyT, shall carry out Parts 4 (b) and 5
(a), (b), (c) and (e) of the Project, all in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions.
-3-
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through
MINCyT/ANPCyT, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
3.03. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the
Borrower, through MINCyT, shall provide the necessary assistance to ANPCyT to
carry out the Project activities under its responsibility.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that
the Borrower has adopted the Operational Manual in a manner acceptable to the
Bank.
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the Signature Date.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Treasury and Public Finances.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Treasury and Public Finances
Hip6lito Yrigoyen 250
C1086 AAB, Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
MINISTERIO
DE HACIENDA 
121942-AR 
(5411) 4349-8815
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI
-4-
AGREED at Buenos Aires, Argentina, on behalf of the Bank on bQebg ) 
, 
and
on behalf of the Borrower on OCeMKber 23, 2oA(.
AaERDO MHyFP No 56/16 
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By
Authorized Representative
ALFONSO PRAT- GAY
Name: 
Minitro de Hacienda y Finanzas Pilcas
Title:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
thorized Representative
Name: 
je Ko 
lleo 
chel
Title: 
11 
C
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to expand the Borrower's capacity to generate
productive innovation in knowledge-based areas by: (a) facilitating the creation of new
knowledge-based companies; (b) developing specialized human capital; (c) supporting
productive research innovation activities and their technology commercialization in the
areas of biotechnology, nanotechnology and information and communication technology;
(d) upgrading the research infrastructure in the areas of science, technology and productive
innovation; and (e) strengthening the policy framework governing science, technology, and
productive innovation.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Developing Human Resources for Productive Innovation
(a) 
Provision of Graduate Program Grants for the establishment or
strengthening of graduate programs on technology brokering and
management in Eligible Institutions in Argentina (including the
facilitation of Fellowships, and the provision of Scholarships to graduate
students: (i) to enroll in graduate programs on technology brokering and
management; and (ii) to facilitate internships to carry out practical training
on technology brokering and management, all in Eligible Institutions).
(b) 
Carrying out of a scholarship program in accordance with the criteria set
forth in the Operational Manual, which program consists of, inter alia, the
provision of Scholarships to undergraduate students who are currently
enrolled or will be enrolled 
in undergraduate 
information 
and
communication technology programs, including the enrollment in any
other program of similar nature acceptable to the Bank, all in Eligible
Institutions.
(c) 
Provision of Technology Transfer Program Grants to support technology
transfer activities, aiming at solving technology problems and capitalizing
on local and regional socio-economic 
development opportunities
(including the provision of Scholarships to Eligible Professionals, all in
Eligible Institutions).
Part 2: Support for Knowledge-Based Companies
(a) 
[intentionally left blank]
(b) 
Provision of Knowledge-Based Grants to develop business plans,
investment plans and/or technology prototypes (prototipos) of Eligible
-6-
Entities, including any other type of knowledge-based activity, as
approved by the Bank, to support the development of Eligible Entities.
(c) 
Provision of support for the operation of Eligible Deal Flow Facilities,
through the financing of a Basic Fee, and a Promoter Fee, if applicable, all
in accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth in the Operational
Manual.
Part 3: Sectoral Funds
Provision of Technology Grants to carry out public-private, public-public and/or
private-private collaborative research and technology commercialization, and innovation
activities by individual firms mainly in the areas of biotechnology, information and
communications technology, and nanotechnology, through, inter alia, the carrying out of
minor works (remodeling), the acquisition and utilization of equipment, the provision of
Scholarships to graduate students and the facilitation of Fellowships, the provision of
technical assistance (which will generate new knowledge, adapt or transfer knowledge,
and/or result in the development of new products or production processes with high
potential impact on Argentina's productive sector), all in accordance with the criteria set
forth in the Operational Manual.
Part 4: Upgrading of Research Infrastructure
(a) 
Provision of Infrastructure Grants to refurbish the infrastructure of Eligible
Institutions.
(b) 
Construction of a knowledge center for national development in the areas
of science, technology and productive innovation (including refurbishment
and remodeling works, purchase and installation of equipment).
Part 5: Strengthening the Policy and Institutional Framework for Innovation and Project
Management
(a) 
Strengthening of the policy-making, and monitoring and evaluation
capacity, of MINCyT, through, inter alia: (i) the expansion of the number
and reliability of science, technology and innovation indicators; (ii) the
support of MINCyT's analytical work on regional and national innovation
systems, and on selected sectoral issues; (iii) the carrying out of impact
evaluations of Borrower's policies and programs concerming science,
technology and innovation; and (iv) the carrying out of analytical studies
and technical assessments on selected areas as approved by the Bank.
(b) 
Provision of support to technology transfer offices at selected universities,
through, inter alia, the identification and implementation of international
-7-
best practice models for the management and commercialization of
intellectual property rights.
(c) 
Carrying out of surveys to gather information with respect to the national
and provincials innovation systems in Argentina.
(d) 
[intentionally left blank].
(e) 
Carrying out of Project dissemination activities.
(f) 
Strengthening of the operational capacity of ANPCyT (including the
DIGFE's capacity), through, inter alia: (i) the strengthening of UGSA to
further upgrade its capacity to carry out its socio-environmental functions;
and (ii) the provision of technical assistance to carry out the evaluations of
Subproject proposals and Scholarship proposals, and to monitor and
supervise the implementation of the Project, including the provision of
training required therefor.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements and Other Arrangements
A. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower, through MINCyT/ANPCyT, shall ensure that the Project is carried
out in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
B. 
(a) 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the
Borrower, through MINCyT/ANPCyT, 
shall carry out the Project
activities under their responsibility, and cause the rest of the Project to be
carried out, all in accordance with the provisions of the Operational
Manual.
(b) 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and
those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
C. 
(a) 
Upon the approval of a Scholarship under Part 1 of the Project, the
Borrower, through ANPCyT, shall enter into an agreement (the
Scholarship Agreement I) with the pertinent Eligible Institution, on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank and which shall include, inter alia,
those set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b) 
(i) The Borrower, through ANPCyT, shall exercise its rights and carry out
its obligations under each Scholarship Agreement I in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower, through ANPCyT, and the Bank and
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and (ii) except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower, through ANPCyT, shall not assign, amend,
abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Scholarship Agreement I,
or any provision thereof.
D. 
(a) 
Upon approval of any given Graduate Program Subproject, and for
purposes of carrying out any said Graduate Program Subproject, the
Borrower, through ANPCyT, shall assign or transfer, on a grant basis, a
portion of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Category (2) (the Graduate
Program Grant) to the pertinent Eligible Institution under a grant
agreement (the Graduate Program Grant Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower, through ANPCyT, and said Eligible Institution
under terms and conditions be acceptable to the Bank and which shall
include, inter alia, those set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
-9-
(b) 
(i) The Borrower, through ANPCyT, shall exercise its rights and carry out
its obligations under each Graduate Program Grant Agreement in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower, through ANPCyT, and
the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and (ii) except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through ANPCyT, shall not
assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Graduate
Program Grant Agreement or any provision thereof.
(c) 
Upon approval of any given Technology Transfer Program Subproject
and/or Scholarship, and for purposes of carrying out any said Technology
Transfer Program Subproject, the Borrower, through ANPCyT, shall
assign or transfer, on a grant basis, a portion of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated to Category (2) (the Technology Transfer Program Grant and/or
Scholarship, as the case may be) to the pertinent Eligible Institution under
a grant agreement (the Technology Transfer Program Grant Agreement)
to be entered into between the Borrower, through ANPCyT, and said
Eligible Institution under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank and
which shall include, inter alia, those set forth in Schedule 9 to this
Agreement.
(d) 
(i) The Borrower, through ANPCyT, shall exercise its rights and carry out
its obligations under each Technology Transfer Program Grant Agreement
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower, through
ANPCyT, and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and
(ii) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through
ANPCyT, shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to
enforce any Technology Transfer Program Grant Agreement or any
provision thereof.
E. 
(a) 
Upon approval of any given Knowledge-Based Subproject, and for
purposes of carrying out any said Knowledge-Based Subproject, the
Borrower, through ANPCyT, shall assign or transfer, on a grant basis, a
portion of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Category (3) (the
Knowledge-Based Grant) to the pertinent Eligible Entity under a grant
agreement (the Knowledge-Based Grant Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower, through ANPCyT, and said Eligible Entity under
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank and which shall include, inter
alia, those set forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
(b) 
(i) The Borrower, through ANPCyT, shall exercise its rights and carry out
its obligations under each Knowledge-Based Grant Agreement in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower, through ANPCyT, and
the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and (ii) except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through ANPCyT, shall not
-10-
assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any
Knowledge-Based Grant Agreement or any provision thereof.
F. 
(a) 
Upon approval of any given Technology Subproject and/or a Scholarship,
and for purposes of carrying out any said Technology Subproject, the
Borrower, through ANPCyT, shall assign or transfer, on a grant basis, a
portion of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Category (4) (the
Technology Grant and/or the Scholarship, as the case may be) to the
pertinent Beneficiary under a grant agreement (the Technology Grant
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower, through ANPCyT,
and said Beneficiary under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank
and which shall include, inter alia, those set forth in Schedule 9 to this
Agreement.
(b) 
(i) The Borrower, through ANPCyT, shall exercise its rights and carry out
its obligations under each Technology Grant Agreement in such manner
as to protect the interests of the Borrower, through ANPCyT, and the Bank
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and (ii) except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through ANPCyT, shall not assign,
amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Technology Grant
Agreement or any provision thereof.
G. 
(a) 
Prior to the approval of any given Subproject, the Borrower, through
ANPCyT, 
shall: (i) carry out, or cause to be carried out, an
environmental/social screening of the relevant Subproject proposal, and
based on said initial environmental/social screening, if applicable, carry
out or cause to be carried out an environmental/social assessment of any
said Subproject proposal; (ii) thereafter, and if determined by the same,
approve 
an 
environmental/social 
management 
plan 
or 
similar
environmental/social instrument, acceptable to the Bank, for each said
Subproject proposal (which 
plan or similar environmental/social
instrument shall be based on the results of the environmental/social
screening and/or environmental/social assessment mentioned herein), all
in accordance with the provisions of the Environmental Management
Manual; and (iii) immediately after the approval of any given Subproject,
implement and/or cause to be implemented (as the case may be) the
corresponding 
environmental/social management 
plan (or similar
environmental/social instrument) in accordance with its terms.
(b) 
With respect to the carrying out of any activities related to Part 4(b) of the
Project, implement and/or cause to be implemented (as the case may be)
the Knowledge Center EIA, all in accordance with the relevant provisions
of the Operational Manual and those of this Agreement.
-11-
H. 
(a) 
The Borrower, through ANPCyT, shall: (i) operate and maintain, at all
times during Project implementation, the DIGFE; and (ii) within the
structure of the DIGFE, operate and maintain, at all times during Project
implementation, the UGSA, 
all with a structure, functions and
responsibilities, acceptable to the Bank, as set forth in the Operational
Manual.
(b) 
The Borrower, through ANPCyT, shall ensure that:
(i) 
the DIGFE is, at all times during Project implementation, headed
by a Project coordinator and assisted by professional and
administrative staff; and
(ii) 
the UGSA is, at all times during Project implementation, headed
by a coordinator and assisted by professional staff (including,
inter alia, a social management specialist, and an environmental
specialist) and administrative staff,
all in numbers and with terms of reference, and qualifications and
experience, acceptable to the Bank.
I. 
The Borrower, through ANCPyT, shall, prior to the commencement of each
calendar year during Project implementation, create, and thereafter maintain
throughout each said calendar year of Project implementation, a specific budget
line entry in the relevant annual budget in order to keep track of the corresponding
expenditures incurred during Project implementation.
J. 
The Borrower, through ANPCyT, shall operate and maintain, at all times during
Project implementation, the procurement information system, and the web page
referred to in Section I.L of Schedule 2 to the Original Loan Agreement for
purposes of disseminating Project information (as determined by the Bank), all
acceptable to the Bank.
Section H. 
Proiect Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1 .
The Borrower, through ANPCyT, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the
Operational Manual. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar
semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45) calendar
days after the end of the period covered by such report.
-12-
2. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 5.08 (b) of the General Conditions,
and as part of the Project Reports to be presented to the Bank as stipulated in Part
A. 1 of this Section, the Borrower, through ANPCyT, shall include: (a) a summary
of the Eligible Expenditures incurred during the calendar semester covered by the
pertinent Project Report and their corresponding payment (including those
expenditures incurred by the Borrower, through ANPCyT, the Beneficiaries,
Eligible Entities, and/or Eligible Institutions (as the case may be) during said
period of time which are financed by the same with their counterpart funds) in form
and substance satisfactory to the Bank; (b) the list of signed contracts for goods,
works, Non-Consulting Services and consultants' services under the Project, as
reflected in the Borrower's financial management system during the period
covered by each said Project Report; and (c) an action plan, acceptable to the Bank,
which plan shall include, inter alia, the recommended measures (including the
Bank's views, if any, and a timetable to implement the same) reflected in the
pertinent Project Report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1 .
The Borrower, through ANPCyT, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of
the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower,
through ANPCyT, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project
Report, mentioned in Section II.A. 1 of this Schedule, interim unaudited financial
reports for the Project covering each calendar semester, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through ANPCyT, shall have its Financial Statements audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each
audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the
Borrower. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.
Section I. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-Consulting Services. 
All goods, works and Non-
Consulting Services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
-13-
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
4. 
Special Provisions. Without limitation to the other provisions in Section III.A of
this Schedule, the following additional provisions shall also govern the
procurement of goods, works, Non-Consulting Services and consultants' services
under the Project (as the case may be):
(a) 
procurement of goods, works, Non-Consulting Services and consultants'
services (in respect of firms) shall be carried out using: (i) standard bidding
documents and standard requests for quotations/proposals (as the case may
be), all acceptable to the Bank, which shall all include, inter alia, a
settlement of dispute provision; (ii) model bid evaluation forms, and model
quotations/proposals evaluation forms (as the case may be); and (iii)
model contract forms, all acceptable to the Bank;
(b) 
all contracts for works to be procured in respect of Subprojects shall
contain a methodology, acceptable to the Bank, whereby the price of each
said contracts shall be adjusted through the use of price adjustment
formulas, in a manner acceptable to the Bank;
(c) 
a two-envelope bidding procedure shall not be allowed in the procurement
of goods, works and Non-Consulting Services;
(d) 
after the public opening of bids for goods, works and Non-Consulting
Services, information relating to the examination, clarification and
evaluation of bids and recommendations concerning awards, shall not be
disclosed to bidders or other persons not officially concerned with this
process until the publication of contract award. In addition, bidders and/or
other persons not officially concerned with said process shall not be
allowed to review or make copies of other bidders' bids;
(e) 
after the public opening of consultants' proposals, information relating to
the examination, 
clarification 
and evaluation of proposals and
recommendations concerning awards, shall not be disclosed to consultants
-14-
or other persons not officially concerned with this process until the
publication of contract award (except as provided in paragraphs 2.23 and
2.30 of the Consultant Guidelines). In addition, consultants and/or other
persons not officially concerned with said process shall not be allowed to
review or make copies of other consultants' proposals;
(f) 
bidders or consultants shall not, as a condition for submitting bids or
proposals and/or for contract award: (i) be required to be registered in
Argentina; (ii) have a representative in Argentina; and (iii) be associated
or subcontracted with Argentine suppliers, contractors or consultants;
(g) 
the invitations to bid, bidding documents, minutes of bid openings,
requests for expressions of interest and the pertinent summary of the
evaluation reports of bids and proposals of all goods, works, Non-
Consulting Services and consultants' services procured by: (i) the
Borrower, through ANPCyT, shall be published in the web page of the
Borrower's Office of National Procurement; and (ii) the Eligible
Institutions, the Eligible Entities and the Beneficiaries, shall be published
by the Borrower, through ANPCyT, in the web page referred to in Section
LJ of this Schedule, all in a manner acceptable to the Bank. The bidding
period shall be counted from the date of publication of the invitation to bid
or the date of the availability of the bidding documents, whichever is later,
to the date of bid opening;
(h) 
the provisions set forth in paragraphs 2.49, 2.50, 2.52, 2.53, 2.54 and 2.59
of the Procurement Guidelines shall also be applicable to contracts for
goods, works and Non-Consulting Services to be procured under National
Competitive Bidding procedures;
(i) 
references to bidders in one or more specialized magazines shall not be
used by the Borrower, through ANPCyT, the Eligible Institutions, the
Eligible Entities, and the Beneficiaries in determining if the bidder in
respect of goods whose bid has been determined to be the lowest evaluated
bid has the capability and resources to effectively carry out the contract as
offered in the bid, as referred to in the provision set forth in paragraph 2.58
of the Procurement Guidelines. The provision set forth in paragraph 2.58
of the Procurement Guidelines (including the limitation set forth herein)
shall also be applicable to contracts for goods to be procured under
National Competitive Bidding procedures;
(j) 
witness prices shall not be used as a parameter for bid evaluation, bid
rejection or contract award;
-15-
(k) 
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids shall apply to
goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower in respect of contracts
for goods to be procured under International Competitive Bidding
procedures;
(1) 
consultants shall not be required to submit bid or performance securities;
(m) 
contracts of goods, works and Non-Consulting Services shall not be
awarded to the "most convenient" bid, but rather to the bidder whose bid
has been determined: (i) to be substantially responsive; and (ii) to offer the
lowest evaluated bid, provided that said bidder has demonstrated to the
Borrower, through ANPCyT, the Eligible Institutions, the Eligible
Entities, and/or the Beneficiaries (as the case may be), to be qualified to
perform the contract satisfactorily; and
(n) 
the types of contracts described in Section IV of the Consultant Guidelines
shall be the only types of contracts to be used by the Borrower, through
ANPCyT, the Eligible Institutions, the Eligible Entities and the
Beneficiaries, in connection with the contracting of consultants' services
provided by a firm and to be financed with the proceeds of the Loan.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consulting
Services
1 .
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and Non-Consulting Services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and Non-Consulting Services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive
Bidding, subject to the provisions under Section III.A.4 of this Schedule; (b)
Shopping; (c) Direct Contracting; (d) Well-established Private Sector Procurement
Methods or Commercial Practices which have been found acceptable to the Bank;
and (e) Community Participation procedures which have been found acceptable to
the Bank.
-16-
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; (d) 
Selection based on Consultants'
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Well-
established Private Sector Procurement Methods or Commercial Practices which
have been found acceptable to the Bank and as set forth in the Procurement Plan
and the Operational Manual; (g) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2, 5.3, 5.4
and 5.5 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants;
and (h) Single-source procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised
from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant
to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
-17-
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Scholarships under Part 
2,400,000 
100%
1 (b) of the Project
(2) Goods, minor works, 
3,100,000 
100 % of the amounts
Non-Consulting Services, 
disbursed under the relevant
consultants' services, 
Graduate Program Grant
Training and/or Operating 
and/or Technology Transfer
Costs under Graduate 
Grant; and 100% in respect of
Program Subprojects 
Scholarships
and/or Technology
Transfer Program
Subprojects, and
Scholarships under Part 1
(a) and (c) of the Project
(3) Goods, consultants' 
10,000,000 
100% of the amounts
services, Training and/or 
disbursed under the relevant
Operating Costs under 
Knowledge-Based Grant
Knowledge-Based
Subprojects
(4) Goods, minor works, 
25,000,000 
100% of the amounts
Non-Consulting Services, 
disbursed under the relevant
consultants' services, 
Technology Grant; and 100%
Training and/or Operating 
in respect of Scholarships
Costs under Technology
Subprojects, and
Scholarships under Part 3
of the Project
(5) Goods, Non-Consulting 
4,387,500 
100%
Services, consultants'
services, Training and/or
Operating Costs under Part
5 of the Project
(6) Front-end Fee 
112,500 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(7) Interest Rate Cap or 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest 
Rate 
Collar 
0 
Section 2.08(c) of this
premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
45,000,000
-18-
For purposes of this Section:
(a) 
the term "Training" means expenditures (other than those for consultants'
services) to finance reasonable transportation costs and per-diem of
trainees and trainers (if applicable), training registration fees, and rental of
training facilities and equipment under the Project; and
(b) 
the term "Operating Costs" means recurrent expenditures that would not
have been incurred absent the Project, for: (i) transportation and per-diem
costs of the staff of the ANPCyT and MINCyT who have been assigned to
assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the Project, and the staff of
Eligible Entities, Eligible Institutions and/or Beneficiaries who have been
assigned to assist the same in the carrying out of Project activities under
their responsibility; (ii) Project administration costs (including office
rent), operation and maintenance of office equipment for the ANPCyT;
and (iii) non-durable goods under the Project, but excluding salaries.
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed USD 9,000,000 may be made for payments made prior to
the Signature Date but on or after September 1, 2015, for Eligible Expenditures provided
that the pertinent obligations and/or conditions set forth in this Agreement, in respect of
the relevant Eligible Expenditure, have been complied with or met.
2. 
The Closing Date is September 25, 2018.
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree to amend the Original Loan Agreement as
reflected in Schedule 11 to this Agreement.
-19-
SCHEDULE3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each May15 and November 15
Beginning on November 15, 2023
through May 15, 2048 
1.96%
On November 15, 2048 
2.00%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
-20-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
-21-
SCHEDULE4
Terms and Conditions of Scholarship Agreements I
Each Scholarship Agreement shall contain, inter alia, the following provisions:
(a) 
the obligation of the Borrower, through ANPCyT, to, upon the approval
of a Scholarship, promptly inform the relevant Eligible Institution of said
approval in a manner acceptable to the Bank;
(b) 
the right of the Borrower, through ANPCyT, to take remedial actions
against the pertinent Eligible Institution in case said Eligible Institution
shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations under the pertinent
Scholarship Agreement (which actions must be previously agreed with the
Bank); and
(c) 
the obligation of each relevant Eligible Institution:
(i) 
to periodically inform 
the Borrower, through 
ANCyPT,
concerning the performance of the Eligible Student (including, but
not limited to attendance and grades) in a manner acceptable to
the Bank;
(ii) 
not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to
enforce the Scholarship Agreement or any provision thereof
unless previously agreed by the Bank;
(iii) 
to, upon approval of a Scholarship, enter into an agreement (the
Student Agreement I) with the pertinent Eligible Student under
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank which shall include,
inter alia, those set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(iv) 
to exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each
Student Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan in respect of said Scholarship;
(v) 
not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to
enforce the Student Agreement or any provision thereof unless
previously agreed by the Bank; and
-22-
(vi) 
to take or permit to be taken all action to enable the Borrower,
through ANPCyT, to comply with its obligations referred to in this
Agreement, as applicable to the pertinent Scholarship.
-23-
SCHEDULE5
Terms and Conditions of Students Agreements I
Each Student Agreement shall contain, inter alia, the following provisions:
(a) 
the obligation of the Eligible Institution to permit the Eligible Student to
enroll in the pertinent program, and take all necessary actions so as to
permit said Eligible Student to attend classes in its facilities and/or campus
for purposes of carrying out Parts 1 and/or 3 of the Project in respect of
said Eligible Student, all in a manner acceptable to the Bank;
(b) 
the right of the Eligible Institution to take remedial actions against the
pertinent Eligible Student in case said Eligible Student shall have failed to
comply with any of his/her obligations under the pertinent Student
Agreement, which actions shall be previously agreed with the Bank; and
(c) 
the obligation of each relevant Eligible Student:
(i) 
to use the proceeds of the Scholarship exclusively for the intended
purposes;
(ii) 
to comply with the pertinent provisions of the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines in respect of said Scholarship;
(iii) 
not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to
enforce the Student Agreement or any provision thereof unless
previously agreed by the Bank; and
(iv) 
to take or permit to be taken all action to enable the Borrower,
through ANPCyT, to comply with its obligations referred to in this
Agreement, as applicable to the pertinent Scholarship.
-24-
SCHEDULE 6
Terms and Conditions of Graduate Program Grant Agreements
Each Graduate Program Grant Agreement shall contain, inter alia, the following
provisions:
(a) 
the obligation of the Borrower, through ANPCyT:
(i) 
to promptly assign to each relevant Eligible Institution the
proceeds of the Graduate Program Grant, and if applicable, to
transfer the proceeds of said Graduate Program Grant to each said
Eligible Institution, as provided in the Operational Manual, all in
a manner acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) 
to, upon request of the relevant Eligible Institution, make direct
payments to contractors, suppliers and/or consultants with the
proceeds of the pertinent Graduate Program Grant; and
(iii) 
to ensure that the relevant Graduate Program Subproject is carried
out in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines;
(b) 
the right of the Borrower, through ANPCyT, to take remedial actions
against the pertinent Eligible Institution in case said Eligible Institution
shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations under the pertinent
Graduate Program Grant Agreement (which actions may include, inter
alia, the partial or total suspension and/or cancellation of the proceeds of
the corresponding Graduate Program Grant (as the case may be), all as
previously agreed with the Bank); and
(c) 
the obligation of each relevant Eligible Institution:
(i) 
to use the proceeds of the Graduate Program Grant exclusively for
the financing of the corresponding Graduate Program Subproject;
(ii) 
to provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to carry out the corresponding Graduate
Program Subproject;
-25-
(iii) 
to ensure that the pertinent Graduate Program Subproject is
carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines in respect of said Graduate Program
Subproject;
(iv) 
not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to
enforce the Graduate Program Grant Agreement or any provision
thereof unless previously agreed by the Bank;
(v) 
if applicable, to comply, or cause to be complied, with the
obligations referred to in Sections 5.04, 5.05, 5.06, 5.07 and 5.10
of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, land acquisition,
use of goods, works and services, and maintenance of facilities,
plans, documents and records, cooperation and consultation and
visits, respectively) in respect of the pertinent Graduate Program
Subproject; and
(vi) 
to take or permit to be taken all action to enable the Borrower,
through ANPCyT, to comply with its obligations referred to in this
Agreement, as applicable to the carrying out of the pertinent
Graduate Program Subproject.
-26-
SCHEDULE 7
Terms and Conditions of Knowledge-Based Grant Agreements
Each Knowledge-Based Grant Agreement shall contain, inter alia, the following
provisions:
(a) 
the obligation of the Borrower, through ANPCyT:
(i) 
to promptly assign to each relevant Eligible Entity the proceeds of
the Knowledge-Based Grant, and if applicable, to transfer the
proceeds of said Knowledge-Based Grant to each said Eligible
Entity, as provided in the Operational Manual, all in a manner
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) 
to, upon request of the relevant Eligible Entity, make direct
payments to contractors, suppliers and/or consultants with the
proceeds of the pertinent Knowledge-Based Grant; and
(iii) 
to ensure that the relevant Knowledge-Based Subproject is carried
out in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines;
(b) 
the right of the Borrower, through ANPCyT, to take remedial actions
against the pertinent Eligible Entity in case said Eligible Entity shall have
failed to comply with any of its obligations under the pertinent
Knowledge-Based Grant Agreement (which actions may include, inter
alia, the partial or total suspension and/or cancellation of the proceeds of
the corresponding Knowledge-Based Grant (as the case may be), all as
previously agreed with the Bank); and
(c) 
the obligation of each relevant Eligible Entity:
(i) 
to use the proceeds of the Knowledge-Based Grant exclusively for
the financing of the corresponding Knowledge-Based Subproject;
(ii) 
to provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to carry out the corresponding
Knowledge-Based Subproject;
-27-
(iii) 
to ensure that the pertinent Knowledge-Based Subproject is
carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines in respect of said Knowledge-Based
Subproject;
(iv) 
not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to
enforce the Knowledge-Based Grant Agreement or any provision
thereof unless previously agreed by the Bank;
(v) 
if applicable, to comply, or cause to be complied, with the
obligations referred to in Sections 5.04, 5.05, 5.06, 5.07 and 5.10
of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, land acquisition,
use of goods, works and services, and maintenance of facilities,
plans, documents and records, cooperation and consultation and
visits, respectively) in respect of the pertinent Knowledge-Based
Subproject; and
(vi) 
to take or permit to be taken all action to enable the Borrower,
through ANPCyT, to comply with its obligations referred to in this
Agreement, as applicable to the carrying out of the pertinent
Knowledge-Based Subproject.
-28-
SCHEDULE 8
Terms and Conditions of Technology Grant Agreements
Each Technology Grant Agreement shall contain, inter alia, the following
provisions:
(a) 
the obligation of the Borrower, through ANPCyT:
(i) 
to promptly assign to each relevant Beneficiary the proceeds of
the Technology Grant, and if applicable, to transfer the proceeds
of said Technology Grant to each said Beneficiary, or to transfer
the proceeds of the Scholarship to the Eligible Student, all as
provided in the Operational Manual, all in a manner acceptable to
the Bank;
(ii) 
to, upon request of the relevant Beneficiary, make direct payments
to contractors, suppliers and/or consultants with the proceeds of
the pertinent Technology Grant; and
(iii) 
to ensure that the relevant Technology Subproject is carried out in
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines;
(b) 
the right of the Borrower, through ANPCyT, to take remedial actions
against the pertinent Beneficiary in case said Beneficiary shall have failed
to comply with any of its obligations under the pertinent Technology Grant
Agreement (which actions may include, inter alia, the partial or total
suspension and/or cancellation of the proceeds of the corresponding
Technology Grant (as the case may be), all as previously agreed with the
Bank); and
(c) 
the obligation of each relevant Beneficiary:
(i) 
to use the proceeds of the Technology Grant exclusively for the
financing of the corresponding Technology Subproject;
(ii) 
to provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary 
or appropriate 
to carry out the corresponding
Technology Subproject;
-29-
(iii) 
to ensure that the pertinent Technology Subproject is carried out
in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines in respect of said Technology Subproject;
(iv) 
not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to
enforce the Technology Grant Agreement or any provision thereof
unless previously agreed by the Bank;
(v) 
if applicable, to comply, or cause to be complied, with the
obligations referred to in Sections 5.04, 5.05, 5.06, 5.07 and 5.10
of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, land acquisition,
use of goods, works and services, and maintenance of facilities,
plans, documents and records, cooperation and consultation and
visits, respectively) in respect of the pertinent Technology
Subproject;
(vi) 
to, upon approval of a Scholarship under Part 3 of the Project,
enter into an agreement (the Scholarship Agreement II) with the
relevant Eligible Institution under terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia, the obligation of the
Eligible Institution to enter into an agreement (the Student
Agreement II) with the relevant Eligible Student under similar
terms and conditions of the Student Agreements I; and
(vii) 
to take or permit to be taken all action to enable the Borrower,
through ANPCyT, to comply with its obligations referred to in this
Agreement, as applicable to the carrying out of the pertinent
Technology Subproject.
-30-
SCHEDULE 9
Terms and Conditions of Technology Transfer Program Grant Agreements
Each Technology Transfer Program Grant Agreement shall contain, inter alia, the
following provisions:
(a) 
the obligation of the Borrower, through ANPCyT:
(i) 
to promptly assign to each relevant Eligible Institution the
proceeds of the Technology Transfer Program Grant, and if
applicable, to transfer the proceeds of said Technology Transfer
Program Grant to each said Eligible Institution, or to transfer the
proceeds of the Scholarship to the Eligible Professional, all as
provided in the Operational Manual, all in a manner acceptable to
the Bank; and
(iii) 
to ensure that the relevant Technology Transfer Program
Subproject is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the
Anti-Corruption Guidelines;
(b) 
the right of the Borrower, through ANPCyT, to take remedial actions
against the pertinent Eligible Institution in case said Eligible Institution
shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations under the pertinent
Technology Transfer Program Grant Agreement (which actions may
include, inter alia, the partial or total suspension and/or cancellation of the
proceeds of the corresponding Technology Transfer Program Grant (as the
case may be), all as previously agreed with the Bank); and
(c) 
the obligation of each relevant Eligible Institution:
(i) 
to use the proceeds of the Technology Transfer Program Grant
exclusively for the financing of the corresponding Technology
Transfer Program Subproject;
(ii) 
to provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to carry out the corresponding
Technology Transfer Program Subproject;
(iii) 
to ensure that the pertinent Technology Transfer Program
Subproject is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the
Anti-Corruption Guidelines in respect of said Technology
Transfer Program Subproject;
-31-
(iv) 
not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to
enforce the Technology Transfer Program Grant Agreement or
any provision thereof unless previously agreed by the Bank;
(v) 
if applicable, to comply, or cause to be complied, with the
obligations referred to in Sections 5.04, 5.05, 5.06, 5.07 and 5.10
of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, land acquisition,
use of goods, works and services, and maintenance of facilities,
plans, documents and records, cooperation and consultation and
visits, respectively) in respect of the pertinent Technology
Transfer Program Subproject;
(vi) 
to, upon approval of a Scholarship under Part 1(c) of the Project,
enter into an agreement (the Professional Agreement) with the
relevant Eligible Professional under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank which shall include, inter alia, those set
forth in Schedule 10 to this Agreement; and
(vii) 
to take or permit to be taken all action to enable the Borrower,
through ANPCyT, to comply with its obligations referred to in this
Agreement, as applicable to the carrying out of the pertinent
Technology Transfer Program Subproject.
-32-
SCHEDULE 10
Terms and Conditions of Professional Agreements
Each Professional Agreement shall contain, inter alia, the following provisions:
(a) 
the obligation of the Eligible Institution to permit the Eligible Professional
to participate under a Technology Transfer Program Subproject, and to
take all necessary actions so as to permit said Professional to participate
of the activities related to the pertinent Technology Transfer Program
Subproject for purposes of carrying out Parts 1(c) of the Project in respect
of said Eligible Professional, all in a manner acceptable to the Bank;
(b) 
the right of the Eligible Institution to take remedial actions against the
pertinent Eligible Professional in case said Eligible Professional shall have
failed to comply with any of his/her obligations under the Professional
Agreement, which actions shall be previously agreed with the Bank; and
(c) 
the obligation of each relevant Eligible Professional:
(i) 
to use the proceeds of the Scholarship exclusively for the intended
purposes;
(ii) 
to comply with the pertinent provisions of the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines in respect of said Scholarship;
(iii) 
not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to
enforce the Professional Agreement or any provision thereof
unless previously agreed by the Bank; and
(iv) 
to take or permit to be taken all action to enable the Borrower,
through ANPCyT, to comply with its obligations referred to in this
Agreement, as applicable to the pertinent Scholarship.
-33-
SCHEDULE 11
Amendments to the Original Loan Agreement
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree to amend the Original Loan Agreement as
follows:
1. Section 3.01 of Article III is hereby amended as set forth in Section 3.01 of
Article III of this Agreement.
2. Schedule 1 is hereby amended as set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
3. Sections I.M, I.N and 1.0 of Schedule 2 are hereby deleted.
-34-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"ANPCyT" means Agencia Nacional de Promoci6n Cientifica y Tecnol6gica, the
Borrower's National Agency for the Promotion of Science and Technology
established under the administrative jurisdiction of MINCyT (as defined below).
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
3. 
"Basic Fee" means the fee to be paid out of the proceeds of the Original Loan (as
said fee is determined in accordance with a formula set forth in the Operational
Manual) to an Eligible Deal-Flow Facility to develop a technological idea with
commercial potential.
4. 
"Beneficiary" means an individual or an entity vested with legal personality
who/which has met the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual to carry out a
Technology Subproject (as said term is defined below).
5. 
"DIGFE" means Direccidn General de Proyectos con Financiamiento Externo,
ANPCyT's Directorate for Financial Management and Administration, or any
successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
6. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
7. 
"Disbursement Letter" means the letter from the Bank to the Borrower of even
date herewith concerning the additional instructions that the Bank may issue
concerning the withdrawal of the proceeds of the Loan, and referred to in Section
IV.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as said letter may be revised by the Bank
from time to time.
8. 
"Eligible Deal-Flow Facility" means a public/private entity and/or a group of
public/private entities duly established as a consortium (or under similar
arrangement acceptable to the Bank) for purposes of identifying technological
ideas with commercial potential, technically assessing the same, and thereafter, if
applicable, converting said ideas into potential private investments, and obtaining
financing of the same, which entity and/or group of entities has been selected to
participate under Part 2 (b) of the Project in accordance with the criteria and
competitive procedures set forth in the Operational Manual (as said term is defined
herein).
-35-
9. 
"Eligible Entity" means an individual or an entity vested with legal personality
which has met the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual for receiving a
Knowledge-Based Grant (as said term is defined herein).
10. 
"Eligible Institution" means a university, a technology center and/or a technology
training institute, and/or any other type of legal entity which meets the criteria set
forth in the Operational Manual to participate under Parts I and 3 of the Project,
and/or for receiving an Infrastructure Grant (as said terms are defined herein).
11. 
"Eligible Student" means any of the students referred to in Parts I and 3 of the
Project who meet the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual for
receiving a Scholarship (as said terms are defined herein).
12. 
"Eligible Professional" means a post-graduate professional and/or a graduate
professional under the direction of a post-graduate professional who has met the
eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual for receiving a Scholarship
under Part 1(c) of the Project".
13. 
"Environmental Management Manual" means the Borrower's manual, acceptable
to the Bank (included in the Operational Manual) which sets forth, inter alia: (a)
the guidelines for carrying out the environmental/social screenings/assessments
referred to in Section I.G of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; (b) the list of excluded
investments under the Project; (c) the guidelines to be followed in connection with
the finding of cultural property; (d) the actions to mitigate any environmental
negative impact as a result of the carrying out of the Project; (e) the pest
management practices to be followed in case any Subproject involves the use of
pesticides; and (f) the guidelines and procedures to be followed in connection with
the carrying out of works under the Project (as said terms are defined herein).
14. 
"Fellowship" means an exchange of professors and/or researchers and, in
connection with the exchange of said professors or researchers, a sabbatical or the
visit of a professor and/or researcher to deliver services in universities located
within the Borrower's territory or abroad, all under Parts I (a) and 3 of the Project.
15. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
16. 
"Graduate Program Grant" means any grant provided under the pertinent Graduate
Program Grant Agreement to finance the cost of a given Graduate Program
Subproject up to the amount set forth in the Operational Manual (as said terms are
defined herein).
17. 
"Graduate Program Grant Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in
Section I.D (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-36-
18. 
"Graduate Program Subproject" means any of the activities to be carried out under
Part 1 (a) of the Project, including Fellowships, but excluding Scholarships, under
said Part of the Project (as said term is defined above).
19. 
"Infrastructure Grant" means any grant provided under the Original Loan to the
pertinent Infrastructure Grant Agreement to finance the cost of a given
Infrastructure Subproject up to the amount set forth in the Operational Manual (as
said terms are defined herein).
20. 
"Infrastructure Subproject" means any of the investments referred to in Part 4 (a)
of the Project.
21. 
"Knowledge-Based Grants" means any grant provided under the pertinent
Knowledge-Based Grant Agreement to finance the cost of a given Knowledge-
Based Subproject up to the amount set forth in the Operational Manual (as said
terms are defined herein).
22. 
"Knowledge-Based Grant Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in
Section I.E (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
23. 
"Knowledge-Based Subproject" means any of the activities referred to in Part 2
(b) of the Project.
24. 
"Knowledge Center EIA" means Estudio de Impacto Ambiental, Parte I -
Evaluacidn Ambiental, the Borrower's assessment dated November 7, 2008,
acceptable to the Bank, prepared with the cooperation of the Buenos Aires
University School of Architecture, Design and Urbanism and adopted by the
Borrower, setting forth the environmental impact assessment of activities under
Part 4(b) of the Project, including provisions for the environmental supervision
thereof.
25. 
"MINCyT" means Ministerio de Ciencia, Tecnologia e Innovaci6n Productiva, the
Borrower's Ministry of Science, Technology and Productive Innovation.
26. 
"Non-Consulting Services" means services which will be bid and contracted on
the basis of performance of measurable physical outputs.
27. 
"Operational Manual" means the Borrower's manual dated May 18, 2016,
acceptable to the Bank, which sets forth, inter alia: (a) the criteria for selecting the
Beneficiaries under the Project; (b) the criteria for providing Scholarships; (c) the
criteria for evaluating, selecting and approving Subprojects (which criteria shall
include, inter alia, the list of excluded investments/activities under the Project);
(d) the Environmental Management Manual; (e) the structures, functions and
responsibilities of the DIGFE and UGSA; (f) the Project's chart of accounts and
-37-
internal controls; (g) the format of: (A) the unaudited interim financial reports
referred to in Section II.B.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (B) the Financial
Statements; (h) the terms of reference for carrying out the Project audits under
Section II.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; (i) the Project indicators (including
the results framework); and (j) the Project disbursement and procurement
procedures, as said manual may be updated and/or amended from time to time with
the agreement of the Bank (as said terms are defined herein).
28. 
"Original Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement for the Unleashing
Productive Innovation Project between the Borrower and the Bank, dated August
6, 2009, as amended to the date of this Agreement (Loan No. 7599-AR).
29. 
"Original Project" means the Project described in Schedule I to the Original Loan
Agreement.
30. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
31. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
May 17, 2016 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
32. 
"Professional Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in paragraph
(c) (vi) of Schedule 9 to this Agreement."
33. 
"Promoter Fee" means the success fee to be paid out of the proceeds of the Original
Loan (as said fee is determined in accordance with a formula set forth in the
Operational Manual) to an Eligible Deal-Flow Facility for obtaining the relevant
financing for potential investments resulting from developing a technological idea
with commercial potential.
34. 
"Scholarship" means a grant made out of the proceeds of the Loan to finance
reasonable expenditures, acceptable to the Bank (as the same are determined in
accordance with a formula set forth in the Operational Manual), in respect of the
cost of living allowance, books and learning materials, and/or transportation costs
and per-diem (as the case may be), all under Parts 1 and 3 of the Project.
35. 
"Scholarship Agreement I" means any of the agreements referred to in Section I.C
(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
36. 
"Scholarship Agreement II" means any of the agreements referred to in paragraph
(c) (vi) of Schedule 8 to this Agreement.
-38-
37. 
"Signature Date" means the latest of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed the Loan Agreement and such definition applies to all references to
"the date of the Loan Agreement" in the General Conditions.
38. 
"Student Agreement I" means any of the agreements referred to in paragraph (c)
(iii) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
39. 
"Student Agreement II" means any of the agreements referred to in paragraph (c)
(vi) of Schedule 8 to this Agreement.
40. 
"Subproject" means a Graduate Program Subproject, a Knowledge-Based
Subproject, a Technology Subproject, an Infrastructure Subproject and/or a
Technology Transfer Program Subproject (as the case may be).
41. 
"Technology Grant" means any grant provided under the pertinent Technology
Grant Agreement to finance the cost of a given Technology Subproject up to the
amount set forth in the Operational Manual (as said terms are defined herein).
42. 
"Technology Grant Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in
Section I.F (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
43. 
"Technology Subproject" means any of the activities referred to in Part 3 of the
Project, but excluding Scholarships under said Part of the Project.
44. 
"Technology Transfer Program Grant" means any grant provided under the
pertinent Technology Transfer Program Grant Agreement to finance the cost of a
given Technology Transfer Program Subproject in accordance with the criteria set
forth in the Operational Manual."
45. 
"Technology Transfer Program Grant Agreement" means any of the agreements
referred to in Section I.D(c) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement."
46. 
"Technology Transfer Program Subproject" means any of the activities to be
carried out under Part 1 (c) of the Project, excluding Scholarships, under said Part
of the Project' ".
47. 
"UGSA" means Unidad de Gesti6n Socio-Ambiental, ANPCyT's Unit for Social
and Environmental Management, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
-39-
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. 
The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any
prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of
-40-
a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable
upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any
Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
