LOAN NUMBER 8442-BR
Loan Agreement
(Additional Financing for the Acre Social and Economic Inclusion and Sustainable
Development Project - Programa de Saneamento Ambiental e Inclusdo
Socioecondmica do Acre - PROSER)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF ACRE
Dated 
(J, 
201(
Vyc
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
, $2/ 
' ,between the INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") and the STATE OF
ACRE ("Borrower") for the purpose of providing additional financing to scale-up the
activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).
The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred fifty million Dollars
(US$150,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower's Representative for purposes
of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is its
Governor, its Secretary of Planning or the Project coordinator.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread,
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.
2.05. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure
Limit (as said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of
this Section), the Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of
one half of one percent (0.5%) per annum of the Allocated 
Excess
Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for
each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if any)
shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set
forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during
which the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit,
the product of: (A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the
ratio of all (or, if the Bank so determines, a portion) of the Loan
to the aggregate amount of all (or the equivalent portions) of the
loans made by the Bank to the Borrower, the Guarantor and to
other borrowers guaranteed by the Guarantor that are also subject
to an exposure surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably
determined from time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the
Bank's financial exposure to the Guarantor which, if exceeded,
would subject the Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined
from time to time by the Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total
financial exposure to the Guarantor, as reasonably determined by
the Bank.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time, in each case with the prior no-objection of
the Guarantor through the Secretariat of the National Treasury of the
Guarantor, request the following Conversions of the terms of the Loan in
order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of the Loan
Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal
-2-
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount
of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Reference Rate and the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a
Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a
Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a
Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the
Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest
Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference
Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05(c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall carry out the Project through SEPLAN, and the following
Project Entities: SEE for Parts 1(a), 2(a) and 3(a) of the Project; SESACRE for
Parts 1(b), 2(b) and 3(b) of the Project; IDM, SEAPROF and SEMA for Part 1(c)
of the Project; DEPASA and SEOP for Part 1(d) of the Project; IDM, SEAPROF,
SEMA, SEDENS and SEPN for Part 2(c) of the Project; IDM, SEAPROF and
SEMA for Part 2(d) of the Project; IDM, SEDENS, SEDS, and SEPN for Part 3(c)
of the Project; SEMA and SEAPROF for Part 4(b) of the Project; IDM, SEAPROF
and SEMA for Part 4(c) of the Project; and all Project Entities for Parts 4(a) and 5
of the Project, all in accordance with the provisions of the Cooperation Agreement
and Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
-3-
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
The Project Entities' 
Legislation has been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of said Project Entities to perform any of their obligations under the
Cooperation Agreement.
(b) 
The Cooperation Agreement has been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
the relevant Project Entity to perform any of its obligations under said
Cooperation Agreement.
(c) 
The Sustainable Production Initiative Legislation has been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of the Borrower or any of the Project Entities to
perform any of their obligations under this Agreement or the Cooperation
Agreement.
4.02. The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that any
event specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement
occurs, and is continuing for a period of 120 days after:
(a) 
notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower without
the Bank receiving any response from the Borrower to address the event
of suspension; or
(b) 
in the event that one or two responses are received by the Bank from the
Borrower to address the suspension event, notice has been given by the
Bank to the Borrower that the Bank is not satisfied with either of such
responses.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that
the Cooperation Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower, through
SEPLAN, and the Project Entities.
-4-
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the Loan has
been registered with the Guarantor's Central Bank.
5.03. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan
which expires on March 29, 2016.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower's
Representative is its Governor.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Secretaria de Estado de Planejamento
Avenida Getfilio Vargas, 232 - Palicio das Secretarias
69900-660 Rio Branco-AC
Brazil
Facsimile:
(55-68) 3224-4535
With copies to:
SEAIN - Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais do
Ministirio do Planejamento, OrVamento e Gestdo
Esplanada dos Minist6rios - Bloco K - 50 andar
Brasilia, DF, 70040-906
Brazil
Facsimile: (55-61) 2020-5006
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at 
sz4-n 
of 
~ 
e6/,LLC(&~~
the day and year first above witten. 
6 
7
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
STATE OF ACRE
By
Authorized Representative
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to contribute to the Borrower's efforts to promote
social and economic inclusion of its rural and urban poor, including its poorest and most
disadvantaged population living in isolated areas in the Borrower's territory.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Basic Services for Isolated Communities
Provide basic services in health, education, agricultural extension, as well
as in integrated urban infrastructure and water supply, including technical and
financial assistance, to the dispersed and most isolated communities, through:
(a) 
Expansion of access to basic education services: developing interventions
to increase the access to education and quality of education with emphasis
on early childhood programs, literacy, primary (ensino fundamental) and
secondary education 
for children, youth and adults in isolated
communities in the Borrower's municipalities.
(b) 
Improvement and expansion of basic health services: (i) increasing the
capacity of primary health care networks to meet the demand for these
services by the poor and rural communities; and (ii) increasing municipal
capacity to improve the quality, continuity and coverage of primary health
care services for isolated communities.
(c) 
Implementation 
of sustainable 
agro-forestry 
production 
systems:
improving agricultural productivity and promoting diversification of food
sources and sustainable use of natural resources, including timber and non-
timber forest products by supporting agricultural extension services and
other outreach programs aimed at improving general livelihood conditions
of isolated communities, and scholarships for community agents.
(d) 
Carrying out of integrated urban infrastructure and water supply activities
in small and isolated towns in the Borrower's west region, including
improvements in water supply, sanitation, drainage, solid waste and all
seasons' urban roads.
-7-
Part 2: Social and Economic Inclusion in Rural Areas
Improve the quality of education and health services in priority communities as
well as the income levels of the population living in these communities by supporting
selected production chains, through:
(a) 
Improvement of the quality of basic education offered to students already
in the education system as well as increase of access to education
opportunities for those outside the education system, through, inter alia:
early childhood education programs; training of teachers; training
programs for supervisors, school personnel and state and municipal
education staff; development of curricular programs and education
materials; secondary education and vocational training programs;
development of School Subprojects through the provision of School
Grants; and technical assistance, supervision and monitoring of school
performance.
(b) 
Improvement of the quality of health services: expansion with municipal
support to a greater number of communities in the rural areas of the
primary and secondary health services through mobile PSF units and
training of community-based health agents to provide the required
services.
(c) 
Promotion 
and 
enhancement 
of 
agricultural 
and 
forestry
commercialization channels as well as provision of technical and financial
assistance, through: (i) the preparation of community development plans
for isolated rural communities; (ii) the carrying out of Community
Subprojects based on said community development plans aimed at
improving the overall production capacity and social entrepreneurship as
well as of the market chains of selected products, including, inter alia,
timber, rubber, and Brazil nuts; and (iii) investments in the development
and implementation of business plans to increase productivity and
commercialization of selected value chains, including, inter alia, honey,
oilseeds, and coffee.
(d) 
Development of sustainable agro-forestry on indigenous lands through: (i)
the preparation and update of indigenous land management plans for
designated indigenous lands; and (ii) the carrying out of Indigenous
Subprojects based on said indigenous land management plans aimed at
improving overall agro-forestry productivity and livelihood conditions of
indigenous populations living in indigenous lands.
Part 3: Entrepreneurship for Selected Marginal Urban Communities
-8-
Promote social inclusion of urban communities in areas of high socioeconomic and
environmental vulnerability by fostering entrepreneurship through the promotion of
community enterprises, and vocational training for professionals and community members,
through the preparation of a socio-economic survey which will define the following
activities to be carried out as part of the Project:
(a) 
Education activities for social inclusion of the most disadvantaged groups
living in selected urban priority areas providing basic education services
targeting access to education and quality of education for regular students
in the education system with emphasis on the development of accelerated
education programs, literacy and secondary education programs targeting
the youth and adults.
(b) 
Health activities for social inclusion: supporting the Borrower's
municipalities to expand PSF and improve the quality of primary and
secondary health services through the establishment and financing of the
Health Insurance Capitation Premia of the Health Quality Insurance
System Maternal-Neo-Natal for the provision of mother and child care
services and the financing of formal health teams.
(c) 
Development of entrepreneurship for marginal urban communities,
promoting: (i) effective social and economic inclusion of the poor urban
population located in selected urban priority areas by increasing supply of
social services and investing in existing service centers 
on social
assistance; (ii) 
small businesses; (iii) vocational training aimed at
supporting exit strategies to social programs; and (iv) organizing
information campaigns, promotional events, workshops for environmental
education, and scholarships for community agents.
Part 4: Public Policy and Institutional Strengthening
Modernize the Project Entities, foster decentralization of the basic services in
health and education, and introduce result-based management strategies in selected sectors
of the Borrower's public service through, inter alia:
(a) 
Public sector management interventions: providing technical assistance
for: (i) studies and activities aimed at supporting the establishment of e-
government strategies, the monitoring of governmental services and
programs, the decentralization of basic services in health, education and
environmental 
management, 
and 
the definition of new 
public
administration models and procedures for effective, efficient and quality
service delivery, including result-based management processes in selected
sectors of the Borrower's public administration; (ii) the capacity-building
of the Borrower's agencies in the areas of planning, implementation
monitoring and evaluation of the Borrower's programs and activities; (iii)
-9-
the development of training programs on agro-forestry; and (iv) the design
of quality standards in the forestry sector for certifying all processes and
products of the timber productive chain in the Borrower's territory.
(b) 
Private sector management intervention: providing technical assistance for
the modernization and strengthening of local cooperatives through
expansion of the Borrower's Sustainable Production Initiative for
marketing of sustainable agroforestry and forestry products (Per Capita
Payment for Sustainable Production), as well as the preparation of studies
on markets and productive chains, including marketing, logistics,
industrial processing, management and processes.
(c) 
Institutional strengthening of indigenous organizations: supporting the
indigenous population in the Borrower's territory to supervise and develop
their land and strengthen their organization in order to promote sustainable
development in their territories by: (i) providing capacity building,
equipment and material to indigenous associations; (ii) carrying out
studies to evaluate the viability of a fund raising strategy; and (iii)
providing training programs for the indigenous population including
technical vocational training.
Part 5: Project Management and Information Dissemination
Support overall Project coordination and supervision and strengthen effectiveness
and quality of Project operation through, inter alia:
(a) 
the financing of incremental operating costs of the Project Management
Unit;
(b) 
the financing of technical assistance for designing and developing studies
and systems;
(c) 
the financing of equipment and supplies; and
(d) 
the financing of development of Project monitoring and evaluation
systems, auditing services and training services for the Project
Management Unit staff, and other operational costs.
- 10 -
SCHEDULE2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arran2ements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower, through SEPLAN and the Project Entities, shall continue to carry
out the Project in accordance with the Project Operational Manual, including the
Procurement Plan, the Annual Operating Plan, the Environmental Assessment, the
Indigenous Peoples' Framework, the Resettlement Policy Framework, the Health
Sector Operational Guidelines and the Per Capita Payments for Sustainable
Production Operational Guidelines, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
shall not amend or waive any provision of these documents without the Bank's
prior written approval. In case of any conflict between the terms of said documents
and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
2. 
The Borrower shall continue to operate and maintain, until the completion of the
execution of the Project, the Project Management Unit within SEPLAN and with
competent staff in adequate numbers with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Bank, and selected in accordance, as applicable, with the
provisions of Section III of this Schedule, including the following key staff: a
Project coordinator, two Project coordination staff members, a procurement
specialist and a financial management specialist.
3. 
The Borrower shall continue to operate and maintain, until the completion of the
execution of Part 3(b) of the Project, a health insurance technical unit (Insurance
Technical Unit) within SESACRE and with competent staff in adequate numbers
with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank and selected in
accordance, as applicable, with the provisions of Section III of this Schedule,
including the following key staff: a health sector coordinator, a health insurance
specialist and a financial management specialist.
4. 
The Borrower shall operate and maintain, until the completion of the execution of
Part 4(b) of the Project, a technical unit within SEAPROF with competent staff in
adequate numbers with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank, and
selected in accordance, as applicable, with the provisions of Section III of this
Schedule, including the following key staff: a coordinator and a sustainable
agroforestry specialist.
5. 
The Borrower shall continue to maintain, until the completion of the execution of
the Project, a managing committee (the Managing Committee) to convene at least
once every semester, and shall send the minutes of said meetings to the Bank.
-11- 
4-
6. 
The Borrower shall, at least once a year during Project implementation, but not
later than March 10, commencing on the first such date after the Effective Date,
prepare and furnish to the Bank a plan (the Annual Operating Plan), satisfactory to
the Bank, for the Project's operation during the following twelve months.
B. 
Cooperation Agreement and FUNAI Agreement
1 .
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower, through SEPLAN, shall
enter into a new, or amend the existing Cooperation Agreement, as the case may
be, and make the proceeds of the Loan available to each of the Project Entities
under said Cooperation Agreement between SEPLAN and said Project Entities, all
under terms and conditions agreed with the Bank as further specified in the Project
Operational Manual.
2. 
The Borrower, through SEPLAN, shall exercise its rights and carry out its
obligations under the Cooperation Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Project. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate, terminate or waive the Cooperation Agreement or any of its
provisions.
3. 
To facilitate the carrying out of Parts 2(d) and 4(c) of the Project, the Borrower
shall maintain the FUNAI Agreement at least until March 31, 2020.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D. 
Per Capita Payments for Sustainable Production (Programa de Otimizavdo da
ComercializaVdo)
1 .
The Per Capita Payments for Sustainable Production will support the expansion
and sustainability of the existing Borrower's program for marketing of sustainable
agroforestry and forestry products (the Sustainable Production Initiative), with
special emphasis on rural cooperatives and/or small producers' associations. The
criteria for inclusion and graduation of participating rural cooperatives and/or
small producers' associations in the Sustainable Production Initiative will be
defined in the Per Capita Payments for Sustainable Production Operational
Guidelines.
2. 
Per Capita Payments for Sustainable Production shall be managed pursuant to
agreed guidelines (the Per Capita Payments for Sustainable Production
Operational Guidelines) and shall be linked to satisfactory completion of annual
-12-
targets agreed with the Bank and described in said Per Capita Payments for
Sustainable Production Operational Guidelines.
3. 
Each Loan withdrawal application under Category (4) of the table in Section IV
A.2 of this Schedule shall be presented to the Bank by the Borrower on a bi-annual
basis and the Borrower shall cause SEAPROF prior to the submission of each such
Loan withdrawal application, to furnish to the Bank a separate report in accordance
with the provisions of the Per Capita Payments for Sustainable Production
Operational Guidelines confirming, validating and certifying that Per Capita
Payments for Sustainable Production under the previous Loan withdrawal
application have been done. Disbursements under said Category (4) shall be done
on a bi-annual basis immediately after the presentation of said report as validated
in accordance with paragraph 4 below, by multiplying the Eligible Small Producers
by the Unit Cost.
4. 
The Borrower, through SEAPROF, shall have the reports referred to in paragraph
3 above audited by an independent auditor (the Sustainable Production Technical
Auditor), in accordance with the provisions of the Per Capita Payments for
Sustainable Production Operational Guidelines and under terms of reference to be
approved by the Bank. Each such technical audit shall cover the period of one
fiscal year of the Borrower and shall be furnished to the Bank for each such period
not later than six months after the end of such period.
5. 
The Borrower, through SEAPROF, shall calculate and establish the Unit Cost in
accordance with the methodologies and provisions of the Per Capita Payments for
Sustainable Production Operational Guidelines and under terms of reference to be
approved by the Bank. Each such calculation of the Unit Cost shall cover the
period of one fiscal year of the Borrower and shall be furnished to the Bank for
each such period not later than one month after the end of such period.
E. 
Subprojects
1 .
The Borrower shall make Grants for Subprojects to Beneficiaries in accordance
with eligibility criteria and procedures acceptable to the Bank as further detailed
in the Project Operational Manual.
2. 
The Borrower, through SEAPROF, SEPN, SEDENS and SEMA shall enter into
Grant Agreements appropriate for the carrying out of Parts 2(c) and 2(d) of the
Project, such agreements to be made in accordance with terms of the respective
draft set forth in model forms approved by the Bank and included in the Project
Operational Manual, in which SEAPROF, SEPN, SEDENS and SEMA shall
obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and those of the Bank, including the
right to:
- 13 -
(a) 
suspend or terminate the right of a Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the
Grant, or obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount of the Grant then
withdrawn, upon the Beneficiary's failure to perform any of its obligations
under the Grant Agreement; and
(b) 
require each Beneficiary to: (i) carry out its Subproject with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, economic,
financial, managerial, environmental and social standards and practices
satisfactory to the Bank, including in accordance with the provisions of
the Project Operational Manual, Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to
recipients of Loan proceeds other than the Borrower, the Environmental
Assessment and the Indigenous Peoples' Framework; (ii) provide,
promptly as needed, the resources required for the purpose; (iii) procure
the goods, works and services to be financed out of the Grant in
accordance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement; (iv) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank,
the progress of the Subproject and the achievement of its objectives; (v)
(A) maintain a simplified financial management system and records in
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to
the Bank for community driven initiatives, both in a manner adequate to
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the
Subproject; and (B) at the Bank's or the Borrower's request, have such
financial statements audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards
acceptable to the Bank, and promptly furnish the statements as so audited
to the Borrower and the Bank; (vi) enable SEPLAN and the Bank to
inspect the Subproject, its operation and any relevant records and
documents; and (vii) prepare and furnish to SEPLAN and the Bank all
such information as the Borrower, SEPLAN or the Bank shall reasonably
request relating to the foregoing.
3. 
The Borrower, through SEAPROF, SEPN, SEDENS and SEMA shall exercise its
rights and carry out its obligations under each Grant Agreement in such manner as
to protect the interests of the Borrower, SEPLAN and the Bank and to accomplish
the purposes of the Project. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower, through SEAPROF, SEDENS, SEPN and SEMA, shall not assign,
amend, abrogate, terminate or waive any Grant Agreement or any of its provisions.
-14-
F. 
School Subprojects
1. 
The Borrower shall make School Grants to Schools, to support the implementation
of the School Subprojects, in accordance with eligibility criteria, guidelines and
procedures acceptable to the Bank as further detailed in the Project Operational
Manual.
2. 
The Borrower, through SEE, shall enter into School Grant Agreements appropriate
for the carrying out of Part 2(a) of the Project, such agreements to be made in
accordance with terms of the respective draft set forth in model forms approved by
the Bank and included in the Project Operational Manual, in which SEE shall
obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and those of the Bank, including the
right to:
(a) 
suspend or terminate the right of a School to use the proceeds of the School
Grant, or obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount of the School
Grant then withdrawn, upon the School's failure to perform any of its
obligations under the School Grant Agreement; and
(b) 
require each School to: 
(i) carry out its School Subproject with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound educational,
technical, economic, financial, managerial, environmental and social
standards and practices satisfactory to the Bank, including in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Operational Manual, the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of Loan proceeds other than
the Borrower, the Environmental Assessment and the Indigenous Peoples'
Framework; (ii) provide, promptly as needed, the resources required for
the purpose; (iii) procure the goods, works and services to be financed out
of the School Grant in accordance with the provisions of Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; (iv) maintain policies and procedures
adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate in accordance with indicators
acceptable to the Bank, the progress of the School Subproject and the
achievement of its objectives; (v) (A) maintain a simplified financial
management system and records in accordance with consistently applied
accounting standards acceptable to the Bank for community driven
initiatives, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations, resources
and expenditures related to the School Subproject; and (B) at the Bank's
or the Borrower's request, have such financial statements audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, and
promptly furnish the statements as so audited to the Borrower and the
Bank; (vi) enable SEPLAN and the Bank to inspect the School Subproject,
its operation and any relevant records and documents; (vii) guidelines to
follow in case of unexpected findings of objects with possible cultural or
archeological value; and (viii) prepare and furnish to SEPLAN and the
- 15 -
Bank all such information as the Borrower, SEPLAN or the Bank shall
reasonably request relating to the foregoing.
3. 
The Borrower, through SEE, shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations
under each School Grant Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower, SEPLAN and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Project. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through
SEPLAN, shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate or waive any School Grant
Agreement or any of its provisions.
G. 
Health Quality Insurance System Maternal-Neo-Natal
1 .
The Health Quality Insurance System shall be managed pursuant to the Health
Sector Operational Guidelines by the Insurance Technical Unit under terms and
conditions described in more detail in said Health Sector Operational Guidelines
and which includes the following:
(a) 
the obligations of the Insurance Technical Unit to: (i) carry out the
activities with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound
administrative, health, social, environmental and financial standards and
in accordance with the provisions of the Health Sector Operational
Guidelines, 
the Project Operational Manual, 
the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines applicable to recipients of Loan proceeds other than the
Borrower, the Environmental Assessment and the Indigenous Peoples'
Framework; (ii) maintain adequate records to reflect, in accordance with
simple and sound accounting practices defined in the Health Sector
Operational Guidelines and the Project Operational Manual, the
operations and the resources of the Health Quality Insurance System
Maternal-Neo-Natal; and (iii) maintain adequate reporting in accordance
with the standards specified in the Health Sector Operational Guidelines
and the Project Operational Manual;
(b) 
the models for framework management agreements to be signed among
the Borrower, through SESACRE, the Insurance Technical Unit,
municipalities in the Borrower's territory, health service providers and, as
the case may arise, municipal health councils in the Borrower's territory
(the Health Insurance Agreements), including models for annual
performance agreement among said parties;
(c) 
the right of the Borrower, through SEPLAN, to inspect, by itself or jointly
with the Bank, if the Bank shall so request, any relevant records and
documents held by Insurance Technical Unit in respect of the Health
Quality Insurance System Maternal-Neo-Natal; and
- 16 -
(d) 
the right of SEPLAN to obtain all information from the Insurance
Technical Unit as SEPLAN or the Bank shall reasonably request regarding
the administration, operations and financial condition of the Health
Quality Insurance System Maternal-Neo-Natal.
2. 
The Borrower, through SESACRE, shall cause the Insurance Technical Unit to
exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the Health Insurance
Agreements in such manner as to protect its interests and the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Project. Except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, abrogate, terminate
or waive any Health Insurance Agreement or any of its provisions.
3. 
Each Loan withdrawal application under Category (2) shall be presented to the
Bank by the Borrower on a quarterly basis and the Borrower shall cause the
Insurance Technical Unit prior to the submission of each such Loan withdrawal
application, to furnish to the Bank a separate report in accordance with the
provisions of the Health Sector Operational Guidelines confirming, validating and
certifying that budgetary transfers for Health Insurance Capitation Premia to
SESACRE under the previous Loan withdrawal application have been done.
Disbursements under said Category (2) shall be done on a quarterly basis
immediately after the presentation of said report as validated in accordance with
paragraph 4 below, by multiplying the Eligible Enrolled Population by the Fixed
Amount.
4. 
For the purposes of the validation procedure referred to in paragraph 3 above, the
Borrower shall cause the Insurance Technical Unit to: (a) have the report referred
to in said paragraph internally audited in a manner satisfactory to the Bank by a
public agency of the Borrower or existing in the Guarantor's territory, acceptable
to the Bank, on a quarterly basis in accordance with standards specified in the
Health Sector Operational Guidelines and on the basis of the performance
indicators set forth in the Health Sector Operational Guidelines and the registry of
Eligible Enrolled Population; and (b) use as support documentation said internally
audited reports provided by said audits, all in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
5. 
The Borrower, through the Insurance Technical Unit, shall have the reports
referred to in paragraph 3 above as internally audited in accordance with paragraph
4 above, audited by an independent auditor (the Health Technical Auditor), in
accordance with the provisions of the Health Sector Operational Guidelines and
under terms of reference to be approved by the Bank. Each such technical audit
shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower and shall be furnished to
the Bank for each such period not later than six months after the end of such period.
6. 
The Borrower, through the Insurance Technical Unit, shall calculate and establish
the Fixed Amount in accordance with the methodologies and provisions of the
Health Sector Operational Guidelines and under terms of reference to be approved
-17-
by the Bank. Each such calculation of the Fixed Amount shall cover the period of
one fiscal year of the Borrower and shall be furnished to the Bank for each such
period not later than one month after the end of such period.
H. 
Safeguards
1 .
Environmental Assessment
The Borrower shall: (a) implement the Project in accordance with the
Environmental Assessment; (b) when applicable, and if not covered under the
Evironmental Assessement, prepare, in accordance with the provisions of said
Environmental Assessment (including provisions for natural habitats, pest
management, forests and chance finding of cultural property), a Specific
Environmental Assessment for each Subproject and its related environmental
management plan; (c) furnish to the Bank for its approval said Specific
Environmental Assessement for said Subproject and its related environmental
management plan; and (d) thereafter carry out the requirements specified by such
Specific Environmental Assessment and related environmental management plan
in accordance with its terms.
2. 
Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework
The Borrower shall: (a) implement the Project in accordance with the Indigenous
Peoples Planning Framework; (b) when applicable, prepare, if not covered under
the Indigenous People Planning Framework in accordance with the provisions of
said Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework, an Indigenous Peoples Plan for
each Indigenous Subproject; (c) furnish to the Bank for its approval said
Indigenous Peoples Plan for said Indigenous Subproject; and (d) thereafter carry
out the requirements specified by such Indigenous Peoples Plan in accordance with
its terms.
3. 
Ressettlement Policy Framework
The Borrower shall: (a) implement the Project in accordance with the Resettlement
Policy Framework; (b) when applicable, prepare, in accordance with the provisions
of said Resettlement Policy Framework, a resettlement action plan for each Project
activity; (c) furnish to the Bank for its approval said resettlement action plan for
said Project activity; and (d) thereafter carry out the requirements specified by such
resettlement action plan in accordance with its terms.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reportin2 and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
- 18 -
1. 
The Borrower, through SEPLAN, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the
Project Operational Manual. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one
calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than two months
after the end of the period covered by such report.
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than three months before the Closing Date.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower, through SEPLAN, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of
the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower,
through SEPLAN, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five
days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for
the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through SEPLAN, shall have its Financial Statements audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each
audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the
Borrower. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works, and Non-consulting services. 
All goods, works, and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
-19-
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1 .
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works, and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works, and Non-consulting
services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works, and non-
consulting services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under
which such methods may be used.
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding (including the method known as "pregAo
eletr6nico", as provided in the Guarantor's Law No. 10520, of July, 2002 under
any e-procurement system acceptable to the Bank), subject to the following
additional procedure, namely, that the bidding documents shall be acceptable
to the Bank
(b) Shopping (including the method known as "preg5o eletr6nico", as provided
in the Guarantor's Law No. 10520, of July, 2002 under any e-procurement
system acceptable to the Bank)
(c) Direct Contracting
(d) Goods, works and services (other than consulting' services) under
Subprojects, costing less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured
in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Project Operational Manual
for Community Participation
(e) Procurement under Framework Agreements in accordance with procedures
which have been found acceptable to the Bank
Contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding are subject to the
following additional provision, namely that the bidding documents shall be
acceptable to the Bank.
-20-
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based
Selection, which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Method
(a) Quality-Based Selection
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget
(c) Least Cost Selection
(d) Selection based on the Consultant's Qualifications
(e) Single-Source Selection
(f) Procedures set forth in Paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines
for the Selection of Individual Consultants
(g) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects", dated May 2006, as revised
from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant
to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
-21-
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) 
financed
(Inclusive of Taxes)
(1)(a) 
Goods, works, 
110,000,000 
100%
Non-Consulting Services,
consultants' services
including audits, training,
and scholarships for the
Project except for Parts
2(d), 4(b) and 4(c) of the
Project 
5,700,000 
100%
(1)(b) 
Goods, works,
Non-Consulting' Services,
consultants' services, and
training for Parts 2(d) and
4(c) of the Project
(2) Health Insurance 
0 
100% of amounts resulting
Capitation Premia under 
by multiplying the Eligible
Part 3(b) of the Project 
Enrolled Population by the
Fixed Amount as set forth
in Section I.G.3, 4 and 6 of
this Schedule
(3) School Grants 
6,400,000 
100% of amounts
disbursed
(4) Per Capita Payments 
0 
100% of amounts resulting
for Sustainable Production 
by multiplying the Eligible
under Part 4(b) of the 
Small Producers by the
Project 
Unit Cost as set forth in
Section I.D.3, 4 and 6 of
this Schedule
(5) Subprojects 
7,900,000 
100%
(6) Operating Costs 
14,500,000 
100%
(7) Front-end Fee 
375,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07(b) of the
General Conditions
(8) Premia for Interest 
0 
Amount due under Section
Rate Caps and Interest 
2.07(c) of this Agreement
Rate Collars
(9) Unallocated 
5,125,000
TOTAL AMOUNT 
150,000,000
- 22 -
3. 
For the purposes of this table, the following terms will have the following
meanings:
(a) 
"Operating Costs" means the operational costs (which would not have
occurred absent the Project, including, inter alia, equipment and computer
maintenance, office supplies, utilities, and rent for office facilities) and the
supervision and monitoring costs of the Project incurred by the Project
Management Unit, the Insurance Technical Unit and the unit of SEAPROF
and SEMA in charge of the implementation of Part 4(b) of the Project
(including, inter alia, operation and maintenance of vehicles, repairs, fuel,
spare parts and insurance, maintenance of the monitoring and information
system, travel and per diem costs for technical staff carrying out training,
supervisory and quality control activities, but excluding expenditures for
salaries and related benefits).
(b) 
"Non-Consulting Services" means the reasonable expenditures incurred
on account of Project implementation to cover reasonable costs of data
collection services, printing services and other services which are not
rendered by consultants, and which are not covered in the definitions of
Operating Costs set forth in paragraph (a) above.
4. 
Categories showing zero in the table above (except for Category (8)) indicate that
they will be financed out of the proceeds of the Original Loan (BR-7625) and that
no Bank financing will be allocated for these Categories under this Additional
Financing.
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $22,500,000
equivalent, may be made for payments made within twelve months prior
to such date for Eligible Expenditures under Categories (1)(a), 1(b), (3),
(5) and (6); and
(b) 
under Category (1)(b), unless the Bank has received satisfactory evidence
that the FUNAI Agreement has been extended until March 31, 2020.
2. 
The Closing Date is March 31, 2020. The Bank shall only grant an extension of
the Closing Date after the Guarantor's Ministry of Finance has informed the Bank
that it agrees with such extension.
-23-
Section V. 
Other Undertakin2s
A. 
The Borrower, through SEPLAN, shall: (a) have the procurement records and
documentation, including those for Subprojects and School Subprojects, for each
fiscal year of the Project, audited in accordance with appropriate procurement
auditing principles by independent procurement auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such fiscal year, the procurement audit report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and (c) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning said procurement records and documentation and the procurement
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
B. 
The Borrower, through SEPLAN, shall no later than six months after the Effective
Date, designate and hire: (i) the independent auditors referred to in Section 5.09(b)
of the General Conditions; and (ii) the procurement auditors as referred to in
paragraph A above; all under terms of reference and with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Bank and selected in accordance with the provisions
of Section HI above.
C. 
By September 30, 2017, or such other date as the Bank shall agree upon, the
Borrower shall: (i) carry out jointly with the Bank, a mid-term review of the
implementation of the activities under the Project, which shall cover the progress
achieved in the implementation of the Project; and (ii) following such mid-term
review, act promptly and diligently to take any corrective action as shall be agreed
by the Bank.
- 24 -
SCHEDULE3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; and by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date,
such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred
to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
. (Expressed as a Percentage)
On each June 15 and December 15
Beginning December 15, 2019
through June 15, 2039 
2.50%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fullX withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
-25-
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
- 26 -
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Annual Operating Plan" means an annual operating plan to be prepared by the
Borrower not later than March 10 each Project year as per Section I.A.6 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006, and revised in January 2011.
3. 
"Beneficiaries" means a local community or an indigenous group with common
interests and with a legal personality in accordance with the Borrower's and the
Guarantor's law, whose Subproject has been found eligible in accordance with the
criteria set forth in the Project Operational Manual, and has applied for financing
and has received or is to receive a Grant under a Grant Agreement to be executed
under Parts 2(c)(ii) and 2(d)(ii) of the Project.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
5. 
"Community Subprojects" means eligible subprojects as approved by the
Borrower and the Bank in accordance with relevant provisions of the Project
Operational Manual and to be partly financed with a Grant under a Grant
Agreement for the activities set forth in Part 2(c)(ii) of the Project and to be carried
out by a community association within the territory of the Borrower.
6. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers", dated January 2011.
7. 
"Cooperation Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.B.1 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the
proceeds of the Loan available to the Project Entities.
8. 
"DEPASA" means Departamento Estadual de Pavimentaqdo e Saneamento, the
Borrower's State Department of Pavement and Sanitation, or its successor thereto.
9. 
"Eligible Enrolled Population" means the number of women in the Borrower's
population that have voluntarily enrolled in the Health Quality Insurance System
Maternal-Neo-Natal and are thus beneficiaries of its health services.
10. 
"Eligible Small Producers" means the number of small producers who are
members of selected rural cooperatives and/or small producers' associations in the
-27-
Borrower's territory which have enrolled in the Borrower's Sustainable Production
Initiative, and are found eligible in accordance with the Per Capita Payments for
Sustainable Production Operational Guidelines in the Per Capita Payments for
Sustainable Production and are thus beneficiaries under the Sustainable Production
Initiative (Programa de Otimizagdo da Comercialiqdo).
11. 
"Environmental Assessment" means the document dated November 6, 2008, and
updated on December 2, 2013, published and available to the public on the website
www.ac.gov.br, which contains the principles and policies that shall apply to the
implementation of the Project including preparation and carrying out of any
Specific Environmental Assessment, and the related environmental management
plan that may be required under the Project, including any Subproject.
12. 
"Fixed Amount" means the amount to be determined each fiscal year of the
Borrower and explained in the Health Sector Operational Guidelines as approved
by the Bank and which is used to calculate disbursements under Category (2) of
the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
13. 
"FUNAI" means Fundagdo Nacional do indio, the Guarantor's National
Foundation for the Indians, created by the Guarantor's Decree No. 564 dated June
8, 1992, pursuant to the Guarantor's Law No. 5371 dated December 5, 1967.
14. 
"FUNAI Agreement" means an agreement dated November 20, 2013, signed
between the Borrower and FUNAI for the implementation ofjoint activities for the
promotion and protection of indigenous peoples in the Borrower's territory.
15. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012.
16. 
"Grants" means grants to be made by the Borrower to Beneficiaries for the
financing of eligible Subprojects in the Borrower's territory to cover part of the
cost of said Subprojects.
17. 
"Grant Agreements" means agreements entered into between respectively,
SEAPROF, SEDENS, SEPN, and SEMA and Beneficiaries as referred to in
Section I.E of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, for the financing and implementation
of Subprojects under Parts 2(c)(ii) and 2(d)(ii) of the Project.
18. 
"Health Insurance Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.G. 1(b)
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
19. 
"Health Insurance Capitation Premia" means the Borrower's budgetary transfers
made to SESACRE for eligible health insurance coverage for pregnant women
under the Health Quality Insurance System Maternal-Neo-Natal as further detailed
in the Health Sector Operational Guidelines.
-28-
20. 
"Health Quality Insurance System Maternal-Neo-Natal" means the Borrower's
health system initiative for financing incentives and the delivery of key strategic
services, most of them not financed by the Guarantor's national health system in
the two selected health care chains (obstetric and neonatal health care), based on
an agreed nomenclature of services.
21. 
"Health 
Sector Operational 
Guidelines" means the guidelines 
for the
implementation of Part 3(b) of the Project, satisfactory to the Bank, adopted by the
Borrower on December 3, 2013, which contains, inter alia: (i) the functions and
responsibilities for the personnel of the Insurance Technical Unit in charge of daily
coordination and monitoring of Part 3(b) of the Project; (ii) the procedures for
payments to health service providers under the Health Insurance Agreements, as
well as for financial management and financial audits under Part 3(b) of the Project
and internal audits and technical audits for reports mentioned in Section I.G.3, 4
and 5 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; (iii) flow and disbursement arrangements
of the Health Insurance Capitation Premia and providers payments with Project
funds; (iv) the staffing plan for the Insurance Technical Unit; (v) the performance
indicators for the Health Quality Insurance System Maternal-Neo-Natal; and (vi)
the models for the Health Insurance Agreements (including annual performance
agreements) to be signed as per Section I.G. 1(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
22. 
"Health Technical Auditor" means an independent auditor referred to in Section
I.G.5 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, in charge of carrying yearly technical audits
for the Health Quality Insurance System Maternal-Neo-Natal, as selected in
accordance with Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, with terms of
reference to be included in the Health Sector Operational Guidelines and the
Procurement Plan.
23. 
"IDM" means Instituto Dom Moacyr Grechi, the Borrower's agency under SEE
for the development of vocational training as created and operating under the
Borrower's Law No. 1695, dated December 21, 2005, as amended.
24. 
"Indigenous Peoples Plan" means a plan prepared in accordance with the
Indigenous Peoples Framework, satisfactory to the Bank, for the purposes of
mitigating any adverse impact on indigenous peoples as a result of a Subproject
and ensuring that they benefit from such Subproject.
25. 
"Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework" means the document prepared by the
Borrower, dated November 6, 2008, and updated on December 2, 2013, published
and available to the public on the website www.ac.gov.br, which contains the
principles and policies that shall apply to the preparation and carrying out of any
Indigenous Peoples Plan that may be required under the Project, including any
Indigenous Subproject.
-29-
26. 
"Indigenous Subprojects" means eligible subprojects as approved by the Borrower
and the Bank in accordance with relevant provisions of the Project Operational
Manual and to be partly financed with a Grant under a Grant Agreement for the
activities set forth in Part 2(d)(ii) of the Project and to be carried out by an
indigenous group within the territory of the Borrower.
27. 
"Insurance Technical Unit" means the unit referred to in Section I.A.3 of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
28. 
"Managing Committee" means the committee referred to in Section I.A.5 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
29. 
"Original Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement for a Project between the
Borrower and the Bank, dated December 19, 2008 (Loan No. 7625-BR-
PROACRE).
30. 
"Original Project" means the project described in Schedule 1 to the Original Loan
Agreement.
31. 
"Per Capita Payments for Sustainable Production" or "Programa de Otimizagdo
da Comercializagdo" means payments for Eligible Expenditures under the
Sustainable Production Initiative as further detailed in the Per Capita Payments for
Sustainable Production Operational Guidelines.
32. 
"Per Capita Payments for Sustainable Production Operational Guidelines" means
the guidelines for the implementation of Part 4(b) of the Project, satisfactory to the
Bank adopted by the Borrower on December 3, 2009, which contains, inter alia:
(i) the functions and responsibilities for the personnel of the unit in charge of daily
coordination and monitoring of Part 4(b) of the Project; (ii) the procedures for
procurement of works, goods and services for the Per Capita Payments for
Sustainable Production; (iii) the procedures and methodologies for the calculation
of the Unit Cost, the procedures for financial management and financial audits
under Part 4(b) of the Project as well as internal audits and technical audits of
reports mentioned in Section I.D.3, 4 and 5 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; (iv)
flow and disbursement arrangements of the Per Capita Payments for Sustainable
Production with Project funds; (v) the staffmg plan for the unit within SEAPROF;
and (vi) the performance indicators for the Per Capita Payments for Sustainable
Production.
33. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers", dated January 2011.
-30-
34. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
July 18, 2014 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
35. 
"Project Entities" means all of the following: SEPLAN, SEE, SESACRE, SEOP,
DEPASA, SEAPROF, SGA, SEMA, IDM, SEDENS, SEDS and SEPN.
36. 
"Project Entities' Legislation" means respectively the Borrower's Law No.247,
dated February 17, 2012 (art. 8, inciso XII) for SEPLAN; the Borrower's Law
No.247, dated February 17, 2012 (art. 8, inciso XVII) for SEE; the Borrower's
Law No. 247, dated February 17, 2012 (art. 8, inciso XVI) for SESACRE; the
Borrower's Law No. 247, dated February 17, 2012 (art. 8, inciso XXXI) for SEOP;
the Borrower's Law No. 247, dated February 17, 2012 (art. 8, inciso XX) for
SEAPROF; the Borrower's Law No. 247, dated February 17, 2012 (art. 8, inciso
XIII) for SGA; the Borrower's Law 247, dated February 17, 2012 (art. 8, inciso
XXV) for SEMA; the Borrower's Law No. 247, dated February 17, 2012 (art. 8,
inciso XXI) for SEDENS; the Borrower's Law No. 247, dated February 17, 2012
(art. 8, inciso XXIV) for SEPN; the Borrower's Law No. 1248, dated December
4, 1997 for DEPASA; and the Borrower's Law No.1,695, dated December 21,
2005 for IDM.
37. 
"Project Management Unit" means the unit referred to in Section I.A.2 of Schedule
2 to this Agreement, to be established within SEPLAN as per the Project
Operational Manual.
38. 
"Project Operational Manual" means the operational manual for the Project,
satisfactory to the Bank adopted by the Borrower on November 25, 2008, through
Decree 3,576, and updated on January 31, 2014, which contains, inter alia: (i) the
creation of the Project Management Unit as well as the functions and
responsibilities for the personnel of said Project Management Unit in charge of
daily Project coordination and monitoring; (ii) the procedures for procurement of
works, goods and services for the Project, including for the School Subprojects,
and the Subprojects, as well as for financial management and audits (i.e. financial
audit and procurement audit) of the Project, the School Subprojects, the Health
Quality Insurance System Maternal-Neo-Natal and the Subprojects; (iii) flow and
disbursement arrangements of Project funds; (iv) the eligibility criteria for the
Subprojects, their selection and approval processes, the Restrictive List, as well as
model forms for Grant Agreements; (v) the staffing plan for the Project
Management Unit and for the Insurance Technical Unit; (vi) the Project
performance indicators; (vii) the Annual Operating Plan for the first year of the
Project; and (viii) the Procurement Plan, the Environmental Assessment, and the
Indigenous Peoples Framework.
-31-
39. 
"PSF" means Programa Sadde da Familia, the Guarantor's family health program,
as established and operating under the Guarantor's Ministry of Health Regulation
(Portaria) No. 648/2006, dated March 28, 2006.
40. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" means the document prepared by the Borrower,
dated August 30, 2013, and published on October 25, 2013, and available to the
public on the website www.ac.gov.br and outlining general implementation
procedures, mitigation measures and monitoring procedures for involuntary
resettlement under Part 1(d) of the Project, including the procedures for the
preparation and implementation of resettlement plans, as said framework may be
amended from time to time with the Bank's prior approval.
41. 
"Restrictive List" means a list appearing in the Project Operational Manual
including activities which cannot be financed by the Loan proceeds.
42. 
"School" means a local school in the Borrower's territory, whose School
Subproject has been found eligible in accordance with the criteria set forth in the
Project Operational Manual, and has applied for financing and has received or is
to receive a School Grant under a School Grant Agreement to be executed under
Part 2(a) of the Project.
43. 
"School Grants" means grants to be made by the Borrower to a School for the
financing of eligible School Subprojects in the Borrower's territory to cover part
of the cost of said School Subprojects.
44. 
"School Grant Agreements" means agreements entered into between SEE and
Schools as referred to in Section I.E of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, for the
financing and implementation of Subprojects under Part 2(a) of the Project.
45. 
"School Subprojects" means eligible subprojects for a School as approved by the
Borrower and the Bank in accordance with relevant provisions of the Project
Operational Manual and to be partly financed with a School Grant under a School
Grant Agreement for the activities set forth respectively in Part 2(a) of the Project
and to be carried out by a School within the territory of the Borrower.
46. 
"SEAPROF" means Secretaria de Estado de Extensdo Agroflorestal e Produgdo
Familiar, the Borrower's Secretariat of Agroforestry Extension and Household-
Based Production, or its successor thereto.
47. 
"SEDENS" means Secretaria de Estado do Desenvolvimento Florestal da
Industria do Comrcio e dos Serviqos Sustent6veis, the Borrower's Secretariat for
Forest Development, Industry, Commerce and Sustainable Services, or its
successor thereto.
-32-
48. 
"SEDS" means Secretaria de Estado de Desenvolvimento Social, the Borrower's
Secretariat for Social Development, or its successor thereto.
49. 
"SEE" means Secretaria de Estado de Educacdo e Esporte, the Borrower's
Secretariat of Education, or its successor thereto.
50. 
"SEMA" means Secretaria de Estado de Meio Ambiente, the Borrower's
Environment Secretariat, or its successor thereto.
51. 
"SEOP" means Secretaria de Estado de Infraestrutura e Obras the Borrower's
Secretariat of Housing, Infrastructure and Public Works or its successor thereto.
52. 
"SEPLAN" means Secretaria de Estado de Planejamento, the Borrower's
Planning Secretariat, or its successor thereto.
53. 
"SEPN" means Secretaria de Estado de Pequenos Neg6cios, the Borrower's
Secretariat of Small Business, or its successor thereto.
54. 
"SESACRE" means Secretaria de Estado de Saide, the Borrower's Health
Secretariat, or its successor thereto.
55. 
"SGA" means Secretaria de Estado da Gestdo Administrativa, the Borrower's
Secretariat of Administration Management, or its successor thereto.
56. 
"Specific 
Environmental Assessment" means an assessment prepared in
accordance with the Environmental Assessment, satisfactory to the Bank, for the
purposes of mitigating any adverse environmental impact as a result of a
Subproject.
57. 
"Subprojects" 
means eligible Community Subprojects and/or Indigenous
Subprojects as approved by the Borrower and the Bank in accordance with relevant
provisions of the Project Operational Manual and to be partly financed with a Grant
under a Grant Agreement for the activities set forth respectively in Parts 2(c)(ii)
and 2(d)(ii) of the Project and to be carried out respectively by a community
association or an indigenous group within the territory of the Borrower.
58. 
"Sustainable Production Initiative" means the Borrower's program for the
modernization and strengthening of local rural cooperatives or small producers'
associations through the improvement of marketing of sustainable agroforestry and
forestry products.
59. 
"Sustainable Production Initiative Legislation" means the Borrower's Law No.
2024/2008, dated October 20, 2008.
-33-
61. 
"Unit Cost" means an amount to be determined each fiscal year of the Borrower
and explained in the Per Capita Payments for Sustainable Development
Operational Guidelines as approved by the Bank and which is used to calculate
disbursements under Category 4 of the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
Section H. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows in order
to include "surcharge":
""Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not
limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end
Fee, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any surcharge, any prepayment
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a
Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable
upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any
Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
- 34 -
