OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8630-TR
Loan Agreement
(Long Term Export Finance Project)
between
Tf-lKyE IHRACAT KREDI BANKASI A.$.
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
0Cie 
( 
2016
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8630-TR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
C(&tb)L.r 
4 
, 2016, between TIRKIYE IRACAT
KREDI BANKASI A.$. ('Borrower" or -Eximbank") and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the
Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of three hundred million Dollars
($300,000,000), as such amounts may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement ("Loan), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to
this Agreement ("Project').
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0. 25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be detemuned in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article TV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such
non-payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable
h the Borrower shall instead he calculated as provided in Section SC te> of the
General Conditions.
2.06. 
[he Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions.
3 02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.ul of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower, the Guarantor and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carned out in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
the Borrower shall have adopted the Operational Manual satisfactory to
the Bank, and
(b) 
at least two Subsidiary Financing Agreements, satisfactory to the Bank,
shall have been entered into between the Borrower and PFIs in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 6(b) of Section LA of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is any of the following; the General Manager,
Deputy General Manager or Head of Finance Department of the Borrower.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Turkiye Ihracat Kredi Bankasi A.$.
Saray Mah. Ahmet Tevfik ileri Cad. No: 19
34768 Umraniye/stanbul
Turkey
Facsimile:
(90-216) 666-5599
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64I45(MCI)
-4-
-WRH) a[ Ankara. Republc of lurkey, as of the das and vcar 1rst abo%e
written.
T(iRKiYE lHRAC'AT KREDI
BANKASI A.$.
By
( Teom.n 
ENR
Head of 
OPrCSCntative M. Ertan TANRIYA KUL
Assant Ge leral Manage:
Name:
Title:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Byy 
_
Authorizedlepresentative
Name: 
A1r
Title: 
JA_ _ 
1_ 
_ 
_
SCHEDULE I
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve access to longer tern finance for export
oriented small, medium and large enterprises.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: 
Eximbank On-lending throuph PFIs to SMEs and LEs
The establishment and operation of a credit facility within Eximbank for the
provision of financing (through Subsidiary Financing) for said PFIs to provide financing
(through Sub-financing) to SMEs and LEs to finance the cost of carrying out Sub-projects.
Part B: 
Eximbank Direct Lending to SMEs
The establishment and operation of a credit facility within Eximbank for the
provision of Sub-loans to SMEs to finance the cost of carrying out the Sub-projects.
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section 1. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
1. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, throughout the
implementation of the Project maintain its Project implementation Unit and
ensure that said Unit functions at all times in a manner and with staffing and
budgetary resources necessary and appropriate for implementation of the Project
and satisfactory to the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower shall: (a) maintain the Opemtional Manual in form and content
satisfactory to the Bank, (b) duly perform all its obligations under the Operational
Manual; and (c) not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Operational Manual, or
any provision thereof, without obtaining the prior approval of the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall, throughout the implementation of the Project, comply with
the applicable prudential regulations of the Guarantor.
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
5. 
For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall, except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, ensure that at least sixty percent (60%) of the Loan is utilized
to finance Sub-financing to SMEs.
6. 
For the purposes of carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a) 
select Commercial Banks, Participation Banks, and Leasing Companies as
PFis pursuant to criteria set forth in paragraph I of Section L.B of this
Schedule and the Operational Manual;
(b) 
(i) 
provide financing to the PFIs in an amount equivalent to the
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Category (1)
set forth in Section IV.A of this Schedule under Subsidiary
Financing Agreements to be entered into between the Borrower
and each such PFI, and which Subsidiary Financing Agreements
shall have been approved by the Bank and shall include without
limitation, the terms and conditions set forth in Section L.B of this
Schedule, and provided that the PFI continues to satisfy the
eligibility criteria set forth in paragraph I in Section LB. of this
Schedule,
-7-
(ih 
take or cause to he taken all action necessary or appropriate on i.
part to enable the PFIs to perform in accordance with the
provisions of their respective Subsidiary Financing Agreements
all the obligations of the PFIs therein set forth, and not take or
permit to be taken any action that would prevent or interfere with
such performance; and
(iii) 
exercise the Borrower's rights under the Subsidiary Financing
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Bank
and the Guarantor and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan,
and, except as the Bank shall otherwise give its prior approval, not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive any such agreement or any
provision thereof,
(c) 
ensure, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, that: (i) the amount of
each Sub-financing to any single SME shall not exceed the equivalent of
$3,500,000, and the amount of each Sub-financing to any single LE shall
not exceed the equivalent of $6,000,000; and (ii) the aggregate amount of
outstanding Sub-financing to any single SME from all PFIs together with
the aggregate amount of outstanding Sub-loans from Eximbank to the
same SME shall not exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000, and the
aggregate amount of outstanding Sub-financing to any single LE from all
PF!s shall not exceed the equivalent of $10,000,000; and
(d) 
monitor the overall execution of the Project and the carrying out by the
PFIs of their obligations under their respective Subsidiary Financing
Agreements in accordance with policies and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank.
7. 
For the purposes of carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a) 
(i) 
Make Sub-loans to SMEs under Sub-loan Agreements to be
entered into between the Borrower and an SME, on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Operational Manual, including, without
limitation, the terms and conditions set forth in Section LC of this
Schedule with the following modifications:
(A) 
all references to "PF" shall be treated as references to
-Eximbank";
(B) 
the term -Sub-fimancing" shall be replaced with "Sub-
loan";
(C) 
all references to ik" and provisions applicable soieb, it
LEs shall be deleted as Eximbank will not make Sub-
loans to LEs,
(D) 
Paragraph 3 shall be modified to read as follows-
"3. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, each
Sub-loan shall be provided on terms, including those
relating to the maturity, interest rate, markup, charges
and/or fees, determined in accordance with Eximbank's
investment and lending policies and practices, provided
that:
(a) 
the interest rate, markup, charges and/or fees, in
the aggregate, to be applied to the principal
amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, shall not be less than the Subsidiary
Finance Rate applicable from time to time
pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of Section LB of this
Schedule; and
(b) 
each Sub-loan by Eximbank to SMEs to finance
an Sub-project shall have a minimum maturity
period of: (i) six (6) years for an Investment Sub-
project, and (ii) four (4) years for a Working
Capital Sub-project.";
(ii) 
exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each
Sub-loan Agreement in a manner acceptable to the Bank, and to
protect its interests, and the interests of the Guarantor and the
Bank; and
(iii) 
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of its Sub-loan
Agreements, or any provision thereof, without the prior approval
of the Bank.
(b) 
Ensure that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree: (i) the aggregate
amount of outstanding Sub-loans to any single SME together with
aggregate amount of outstanding Sub-financing from all PFls to the same
SME shall not exceed the equivalent of S5,000,000; and (ii) at least ten
percent (10%) of all Sub-loans shall be for new export oriented SMEs as
defined in the Operational Manual.
(c) 
Supervise, monitor and report on the carrymng out of Sub-pro jects hy
SNEs, in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and those of
the Operational ManuaL
(d) 
Use its best efforts to utilize all repayments of Subsidiary Finaneng by
PFIs under Part A of the Project and all repayments of Sub-loans by SMEs
under Part B of the Project (to the extent repayments are not required to
meet the Borrower's payment and repayment obligations to the Bank) to
finance additional development projects to further the development of
exporters.
B. 
Terms and Conditions of the Borrower's provision of Subsidiary Financing
to PFIs
PFI Eligibility Criteria
1 .
For the purposes of carrying out the Project, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall select Commercial Banks, Participation Banks, and
Leasing Companies as PFIs in accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth
in the Operational Manual, including that:
(a) 
A Commercial Bank or a Participation Bank. may be selected as a PFI only
if it is duly established and operating in the territory of the Guarantor and
in respect of which the Borrower shall have determined, and the Bank shall
have agreed with the determination, that the Commercial Bank or
Participation Bank, as the case may be:
(i) 
has total assets exceeding the equivalent of $1,000,000,000 on
average during the last two fiscal years of the Commercial Bank!
Participation Bank preceding the signing of its Subsidiary
Financing Agreement;
(ii) 
is in compliance with applicable banking regulations and
prudential regulations of the Guarantor as: (A) confirmed in the
semiannual financial reports submitted by the Commercial
Bank's/Participating Bank's management; and (B) duly certified
by the Commercial Bank's/Participating Bank's auditors at the
end of each fiscal year of the Commercial Bank/Participating
Bank provided that in the first year of the Subsidiary Financing if
the auditor's certification is not available, a management letter
confirming 
the 
Commercial 
Bank's/Participating 
Bank's
compliance with applicable banking regulations and prudential
regulations of the Guarantor will be accepted in lieu of the
auditor's certification;
- 10 -
(uII) 
is operating pursuant to investment and financing policies and
procedures acceptable to the Bank, the Borrower and the
Guarantor and has undertaken to maintain said policies and
procedures;
(iv) 
has adequate organization, management, staff and other resources
necessary for its efficient operation; and
(v) 
applies appropriate procedures for appraisal, supervision, and
monitoring of Sub-projects, including for the efficient evaluation
and supervision of the procurement and environmental elements
of Sub-projects-
(b) 
A Leasing Company may be selected as a PFI only if it is duly established
and operating in the territory of the Guarantor, and in respect of which the
Borrower shall have determined, and the Bank shall have agreed with the
determination, that the Leasing Company:
(i) 
has 
total lease 
receivables 
exceeding the equivalent 
of
$50,000,000 on average and a new lease volume exceeding the
equivalent of $50,000,000 on average, during the last two fiscal
years of the Leasing Company preceding the signing of its
Subsidiary Financing Agreement;
(ii) 
is in compliance with applicable leasing regulations of the
Guarantor as: (A) confirmed in the semiannual financial reports
submitted by the Leasing Company's management; and (B) duly
certified by the Leasing Company's auditors at the end of each
fiscal year of the Leasing Company provided that in the first year
of the Subsidiary Financing if the auditor's certification is not
available, 
a management 
letter 
confirming the 
Leasing
Company's compliance with applicable banking regulations and
prudential regulations of the Guarantor will be accepted in lieu of
the auditor's certification;
(iii) 
has been profitable for at least two (2) out of the last three (3) years
of its operations,
(iv) 
is operating pursuant to investment and financing policies and
procedures acceptable to the Bank, the Borrower and the
Guarantor and has undertaken to maintain said policies and
procedures;
(v) 
has adequate organization, management, staff and other resources
necessary for its efficient operation; and
- I I -
(v 
applies appropriate procedures for appraisal. supervision, and
monitoring of Sub-projects, including for the efficient evaluation
and supervision of the procurement and environmental elements
of Sub-projects.
Terms of Subsidiary Financing to PFIs
2. 
The principal amount to be provided, out of the proceeds of the Loan, to a PFI
under its respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement, shall be the equivalent of
the aggregate amount of the principal of all Sub-financing to be made out of the
proceeds of the Loan pursuant to the Subsidiary Financing Agreement providing
for such Subsidiary Financing.
3. 
(a) 
Each Subsidiary Financing shall be subject to interest, markup, charges
and/or fees applied to the principal amount thereof withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time and which interest, markup, charges and/or
fees, in the aggregate, shall not be less than the rate payable under Section
2.05 of this Agreement plus: (i) any premium, charges and fees payable
under this Agreement; (ii) the administrative costs of the Borrower and
(iii) a risk margin acceptable to the Bank ("Subsidiary Finance Rate');
(b) 
The Subsidiary Financing to each PF shall be made available, on a first
come first serve basis as detailed in the Operational Manual and up to an
amount not exceeding the equivalent of $60,000,000.
4. 
The right of a PFI to use the proceeds of its respective Subsidiary Financing shall
be:
(a) 
suspended upon failure of such PFI to perform any of its obligations under
its respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement, or to continue to satisfy
the eligibility criteria set forth in paragraph 1(a) or 1(b) of Section L.B of
this Schedule, as the case may be; and
(b) 
terminated if such right shall have been suspended pursuant to sub-
paragraph (a) hereof for a continuous period of sixty (60) days.
Conditions of Subsidiary Financing to PFIs
5. 
Each Subsidiary Financing Agreement shall contain provisions pursuant to which
the PFI concerned undertakes to:
(a) 
Carry out activities under the Project and conduct its operations and affairs
in accordance with appropriate financial standards and practices, including
in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines
applicable to recipients of Loan proceeds other than the Borrower, with
qualified management and.staff in adequate numbers, and in conformity
- 12 -
with the investment and lending or leasing policies and procedures
referred to in the Operational Mlanual, and provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose:
(b) 
(i) 
Provide, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree. Sub-financing
to SMEs or LEs on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Operational Manual, including, without limitation, the terms and
conditions set forth in Section I.C of this Schedule:
(ii) 
with 
respect to a Participation Bank 
PF[ 
providing the
Sub-financing, ensure that the Sub-financing is made available
through Islamic finance instruments that satisfy the requirements
set forth in the Operational Manual,
(iii) 
ensure that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree: (A) the
amount of each Sub-financing to any single SME shall not exceed
the equivalent of $3,500,000, and the amount of each Sub-
financing to any single LE shall not exceed the equivalent of
$6,000,000; and (B) the aggregate amount of outstanding
Sub-financing to any single SME from all PFIs together with the
aggregate amount of outstanding Sub-loans from Eximbank to the
same SME shall not exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000, and the
aggregate amount of outstanding Sub-financing to any single LE
from all PFIs shall not exceed the equivalent of $10,000,000;
(iv) 
exercise its rights in relation to each such Sub-financing in such a
manner as to protect its interests and the interests of the Borrower,
the Guarantor and the Bank, comply with its obligations under its
respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement and achieve the
purposes of the Project
(v) 
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of its agreements
providing for Sub-financing, or any provision thereof, without the
prior approval of the Borrower-
(vi) 
select and appraise Sub-projects and supervise, monitor and report
on the carrying out by the SMEs and LEs of Sub-projects, all in
accordance with the Operational Manual and ensure that no
Excluded Activities are included in any Sub-project;
(vii) 
ensure that each Sub-project shall comply with environmental
review procedures set forth in the Operational Manual, which
includes the Environmental Assessment Framework. To that end,
PFIs shall require each SME or LE applying for a Sub-financing
to furnish evidence satisfactory to the Bank, showing that the Sub-
- 13 -
project, in respect of which the application has been prepared, is
m accordance with such procedures;
(viii) 
ensure that for Sub-projects which require an Lnvironmentat
Management Plan, the SME or LE concerned shall carry out such
plan in a timely 
manner, 
requiring such 
Environmental
Management Plan to be in compliance with the Operational
Manual and Environmental Assessment Framework, and shall
include adequate information on the carrying out of such
Environmental Management Plans in the progress reports referred
to in sub-paragraph (c) (ii) of this paragraph; and
(ix) 
ensure that: (A) goods, works, non-consulting services and
consultants' services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Section III of this Schedule; and (B) such goods, works and
services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the
Sub-project;
(c) 
(i) 
Exchange views with and furnish all such information to the Bank
or the Borrower, as may be reasonably requested by the Bank and
the Borrower, with regard to the progress of its activities under the
Project, the performance of its obligations under its respective
Subsidiary Financing Agreement, and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Project;
(ii) 
prepare and submit to the Borrower quarterly reports on Sub-
financing disbursements and repayments, and annual reports on
the progress made in achieving the objectives outlined in the
business plans submitted with the Sub-financing applications,
(iii) 
promptly inform the Bank and the Borrower of any condition that
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its activities
under its respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement;
(d) 
(i) 
Maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound accounting practices, its operations and financial
condition,
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank such information concerning said records and
accounts as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request;
and
(e) 
Assume the risk of each Sub-financing.
- 14-
C. 
Terms and Conditions of PFIs' provision of Sub-financing to SMEs and LEs
SME and LE Eligibility Criteria
1I 
Each Sub-financing shall be provided to a small, medium or large enterprise only
if it has been established, to the satisfaction of the Borrower and PFI, that the
following have been satisfied and shall be maintained during the duration of the
respective Sub-financing:
(a) 
it is a SME or an LE,
(b) 
it is an export oriented enterprise, as determined in accordance with the
criteria and procedure set out in the Operational Manual,
(c) 
it is a Private Enterprise. 
For purposes of this sub-paragraph I (c), a
Private Enterprise is an enterprise where more than fifty percent (50%)
of the shares or other equity interest thereof is held by persons or
companies other than the Guarantor, any agency or subdivision thereof,
or any local governmental authority, or entities controlled by the
Guarantor or such agencies or subdivisions;
(d) 
it has a satisfactory financial structure and the organization, management,
staff and financial and other resources required for the efficient carrying
out of its operations, including the carrying out of the Sub-project; and
(e) 
it has a certificate from the relevant local or national authorities of the
Guarantor about compliance with applicable environmental laws and
regulations of the Guarantor.
Sub-project Eligibility Criteria
2. 
Unless otherwise agreed between the Bank and the Borrower, each Sub-financing
shall be provided for a Sub-project which is determined, on the basis of an
appraisal carried out in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank:
(a) 
to be technically feasible and economically, financially and commercially
viable;
(b) 
to be in compliance with all requirements pertaining to environmental
protection applicable under the laws and regulations of the Guarantor and
with the Environmental Assessment Framework. To that end, the PFI shall
require each SME or LE applying for Sub-financing to furnish evidence
satisfactory to the PFI, the Borrower and the Bank, showing that the Sub-
project in respect of which the application has been made, has been
prepared in accordance with such procedures, such evidence to include,
inter alia, an Environmental Management Plan prepared in accordance
with the requirements of the Environmental Assessment Framework tor a
Sub-project submitted for approval;
(c) 
not to be supporting or include the purchase of land or used equipment;
and
(d) 
not to be supporting or include any of the Excluded Activities.
Terms of Sub-financing to SMEs and Les
2. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, each Sub-financing shall be provided on
terms, including those relating to the maturity, interest rate, markup, charges and/or
fees determined in accordance with the PFIs investment and lending policies and
practices, provided that:
(a) 
the interest rate, markup, charges and/or fees, in the aggregate, to be
applied to the principal amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, shall not be less than the Subsidiary Finance Rate applicable
from time to time pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of Section L.B of this
Schedule plus the PFVs administrative costs and an appropriate risk
marg 
and
(b) 
each Sub-financing by PFls to SMEs to finance an Investment Sub-project
shall have a minimum maturity period of two (2) years, and each
Sub-financing by PFIs to LEs to finance an Investment Sub-project shall
have a minimum maturity period of three (3) years.
4. 
Sub-financing to SMEs shall be provided for Working Capital Sub-projects and
Investment Sub-projects, and Sub-financing to LEs shall be provided for
Investment Sub-projects only.
5. 
The amount of each Sub-financing to any single SME shall not exceed the
equivalent of $3,500,000, and the amount of each Sub-financing to any single LE
shall not exceed the equivalent of $6,000,000.
6. 
No expenditures for a Sub-project shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds
of the Loan unless such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than one
hundred eighty (180) days prior to the date on which the PFI shall have received
the Sub-financing application and any information required under paragraph 5 of
Section LB of this Schedule in respect of such Sub-financing.
Condidons of Sub-financing to SMEs and LEs
7. 
Each Sub-financing shall be provided on further conditions whereby the PFI shall
obtain, by written contract with the SME or LE or by other appropriate legal means
-
6-
rights adequate to protect its interests and the interests of the Guarantor. the Bank
and the Rorrower, including the right to:
(a) 
Require the SME or LE to carry out and operate the facilities financed
under the Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance
with sound technical, financial and managerial 
standards. and in
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines
applicable to recipients of finance proceeds other than the Borrower. and
to maintain adequate records.
(b) 
Without limitation to the generality of the provisions of the preceding
paragraph (a), require the SME or LE to carry out and operate the
Sub-project with due regard to applicable social impact, ecological,
environmental and pollution control standards and in accordance with the
provisions of the Operational Manual.
(c) 
For any Sub-project which needs an Environmental Management Plan,
require the SME or LE to carry out such plan in a timely manner.
(d) 
Require that: 
(i) 
the goods, 
works, non-consulting services and
consultants' services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Sub-financing shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Section 1II of this Schedule; and (ii) use such goods, works, and services
exclusively in the carrying out of the Sub-project.
e) 
Inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank, the Borrower
or the Guarantor, if the Bank or the Guarantor shall so request, such goods
and the sites, works, plants and construction included in the Sub-project,
the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents.
(f) 
Require that the SME or LE.shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall
be consistent with sound business practice; and without any limitation
upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Sub-financing to the place of use or installation, any
indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by
the SME or LE to replace or repair such goods.
(g) 
Obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and
financial condition of the SME or LE and to the benefits to be derived from
the Sub-project.
-17 
-
(h 
RcqLire that, for any Sub-financing exceeding S 1,000,000 NI 
equalent, the
SME or LE concerned shall:
(i) 
Submit to the Borrower a cash flow statement in accordance with
the Operational Manual.
(ii) 
Have a ratio of financial obligation to equity as set forth and
defined in the Operational Manual.
(iii) 
Not incur any financial obligation unless a reasonable forecast of
its revenues and expenditures shows that its net revenues for each
fiscal year during the term of the financial obligation to be
incurred shall be as set forth and defined in the Operational
Manual.
(i) 
Suspend and terminate the right of the SME or LE to the use of the
proceeds of the Sub-financing upon failure by such SME or LE to perfbrm
its obligations under its contract with the PF.
Approval Procedures for Sub-financing to SAEs and LEs
8. 
Each Sub-financing shall be approved by the PFI on the basis of:
(a) 
a description of the SME or LE and an appraisal of the Sub-project,
including a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan;
(b) 
the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-financing, including the
schedule of amortization or leasing payments of the Sub-financing;
(c) 
evidence of compliance with the Operational Manual and with the
Environmental Policy Framework; and
(d) 
such other information as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably
request.
9. 
Unless otherwise agreed with the Bank, the Borrower shall ensure that the
following Sub-financing shall not be approved without the Bank's prior approval:
the first Sub-financing by each PFL
10. 
A prior approval by the Bank will be required for every Sub-financing to be
provided to a SME in an amount exceeding the equivalent of $2-500,000 and of
every Sub-financing to an LE in an amount exceeding the equivalent of
$4,500,000.
- 18-
Section II. 
Project Monitoring ReportinE and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project
(including progress in implementation of the Environmental Policy
Framework and plans prepared in accordance with said framework and
accepted by the Bank) and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of
indicators agreed with the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the
period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not
later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such
report.
(b) 
Without limitation on the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) above, the
Borrower shall list, in the Project Report, basic information relating to
each Sub-project approved for financing under the Project, including the
location and nature of the Sub-project, and the date on which Sub-project
activities began and were completed. Additionally, the Borrower agrees
that the Bank may disclose the foregoing information to the public.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1 .
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than
forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited
financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have:
(a) 
the Financial Statements for the Project audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of
the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the
Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such
period, and
(b) 
its entity financial statements audited in accordance with standards set
forth in Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of such
entity financial statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the
- 19-
Borrowcr and be firnished to the Bank not later ihan six n months alter
the end of such penod.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
I. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III. IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works, Non-consulting
Services and Consultants' Services
Well-established 
Private Sector Procurement Methods or Commercial
Practices. Contracts for goods, works, non-consulting services and consultants'
services 
under Sub-projects 
shall 
be awarded 
in accordance 
with the
well-established private sector procurement methods or commercial practices
which have been found acceptable to the Bank and described in the Operational
Manual.
C. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
All contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
I. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article fl of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised
from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant
to such instructions). to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for
Eligible Expenditures.
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures to be
Allocated 
Financed
Category 
(Expressed in Doflar) 
(Inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Sub-financing 
100% of amount of Sub-financing
under Part A 
239,250,000 
disbursed under a contract referred
to in paragraph 7 of Section LC of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement
(2) Sub-loans under 
60,000,000 
100/6 of amount of Sub-loans
Part B 
disbursed under a Sub-loan
Agreement
(3) Front-end Fee 
750,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this Agreement in
accordance with Section 2.07 (b)
of the General Conditions
(4) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to Section
Interest Rate Collar 
2.07(c) of this Agreement
premium
TOTAL
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1I 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $60,000,000 equivalent may
be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after August 15, 2015. for
Eligible Expenditures under Categories (1) and (2).
2. 
The Closing Date is January 31, 2021.
-271 
-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying- (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each January 15 and July 15
Beginning January 15, 2024 
333%
through January 15, 2038
On July 15, 2038 
3.43%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date failing after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (-Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to Lo paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currenc%
Conversion applies.
3. 
1a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either- (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency.
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
- 23 -
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
!. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the -Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011, which
are applicable to all IBRD loans and IDA credits and grants.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement-
3. 
"Category 'A' Sub-projects" means Sub-projects which are likely to have
significant adverse environmental impacts that are sensitive, diverse, or
unprecedented and require a full environmental impact assessment pursuant to the
provisions of the Operational Manual and the Environmental Assessment
Framework.
4. 
"Commercial Bank" means an institution registered and operating as a commercial
bank under the Guamntor's Banking Law (Law No. 5411 published in the Official
Gazette dated November 1, 2005, No. 25983, as amended) and other applicable
laws and regulations of the Guarantor pertaining to banking.
5. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
6. 
"Displaced Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of the
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts
caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of
shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or
means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to another location;
or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to lealy designated parks and protected
areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such persons.
7. 
"Environmental 
Assessment 
Framework" 
means 
Environmental 
Review
Procedures disclosed by the Borrower on its website on April 24, 2014, and in the
Bank's [nfoshop on April 28, 2014, which set forth policies and procedures for
environmental 
screening 
of Sub-projects, 
for conducting 
environmental
assessments and specifying requirements for environmental mitigation measures
to be included in environmental management plans; and such document constitutes
an integral part of the Operational Manual.
S. 
"Environmental 
Management 
Plan" 
means 
any 
specific 
environmental
management plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to be carried out by an SME or LE
- 24 -
under a Sub-project, as may be required pursuant to the due obser-vancc of the
Environmental Assessment Framework by the Borrower. PFIs and SMFs and I Ik
and in accordance with the provisions of the respective Sub-financing contract, as
referred to in paragraph 7(c) of Section L.C of Schedule 2 of this Agreement,
wherein shall have been defined specific details of measures to manage potential
environmental risks and mitigate, reduce and/or offset adverse environmental
impacts associated with the implementation of activities under the Sub-project,
together with adequate institutional, monitoring and reporting arrangements
capable of ensuring proper implementation of, and regular feedback on compliance
with, its terms, as the same such Environmental Management Plan may be
amended and supplemented from time to time, satisfactory to the Bank.
9. 
-Excluded Activities" means, collectively:
(a) 
any of the activities listed, or activities that produce and/or use materials
listed, in the Operational Manual and which are classified and referred to
as part of the negative list in said manual;
(b) 
an investment that is classified as a Category -A" Sub-project in
accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual;
(c) 
an investment that entails land acquisition or involuntary resettlement or
would give rise to Displaced Persons;
(d) 
an investment that involves the potential use of, or discharge into,
international waterways (or detailed design and engineering studies of
such investment), as such waterways shall have been described more
specifically in the Operational Manual; and
(e) 
an investment that involves the construction of a new dam or will rely on
the performance of an existing dam or a dam under construction.
10. 
"Eximbank" or "Turkiye thracat Kredi Bankasi A. S." means a joint-stock
company established pursuant to Law No. 3332 dated March 31, 1987 (Official
Gazette No. 19417), which is responsible for implementation of the Project.
I1. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
12. 
"Guarantor" means the Republic of Turkey.
13. 
"Investment Sub-project" means any investment for productive purposes which
has been selected and approved in accordance with the criteria and procedures set
forth in this Agreement and further detailed in the Operational Manual.
I 4 
'Leasing Company" means a company registered and operating n accordance
with the applicable laws and regulations of the Guarantor pertaining to companies.
while at the same time licensed to engage in transactions that include transactions
qualifying as leasing in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations of the
Guarantor pertaining to leasing.
15. 
"Large Enterprise" or "LE" means an enterprise that: (a) employs 250 or more
employees but less than 1,500 employees; and (b) satisfies the appropriate criteria
as set forth in paragraph I of Section LC of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the
Operational Manual, and to which the PFI proposes to make or has made a Sub-
financing.
16. 
"Operational Manual" means the manual to be adopted by the Borrower, setting
out the operational and administrative procedures in respect of the preparation,
approval, processing, financing, implementation, and supervision of Sub-projects,
and the manual includes the Environmental Assessment Framework.
17. 
"Participating Financial Institution" or -PFr means any or each Commercial
Bank, Participation Bank or Leasing Company selected by the Borrower pursuant
to the criteria set forth in paragraph I of Section LB of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and the Operational Manual.
18. 
-Participation Bank" means an institution registered and operating as a
participation bank under the Guarantor's Banking Law (Law No. 5411 published
in the Official Gazette dated November 1, 2005, No. 25983, as amended) and other
applicable laws and regulations of the Guarantor pertaining to banking.
19. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
20. 
"Project Implementation Unit" means the unit established within Eximbank and
referred to in paragraph I of Section LA of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
21. 
"Small or Medium Enterprise" or "SME" means an enterprise that: (a) employs
less than 250 employees; and (b) satisfies the appropriate criteria as set forth in
paragraph I of Section L.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the Operational
Manual, and to which the PFT proposes to make or has made a Sub-financing.
22. 
"Sub-financing" means financing made or proposed to be made by a PFI (under
Part A of the Project) to a SME or LE, out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated
from time to time to Category (1) of the table set forth in paragraph 2 of Section
IV.A of Schedule ! to this Agreement, for purposes of financing all or a portion of
the expenditures incurred by a SME or LE for goods, works, non-consulting
services and consultants' services under a Sub-Project.
23 
"Sub-loan" means financing made or proposed to be made by I-xinhank (under
Part B of the Project) directly to a SME, out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated
fom time to time to Category (2) of the table set forth in paragraph 2 of Section
IV.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, for purposes of financing all or a portion of
the expenditures incurred by a SME for goods, works, non-consulting services and
consultants' services under a Sub-project.
24. 
-Sub-loan Agreement" means an agreement entered or to be entered into between
the Eximbank and a SME pursuant to paragraph 7(a) of Section I.A of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
25. 
"Sub-project" 
means any Investment Sub-project or any Working Capital
Subproject, as the case may be, selected in accordance with paragraph 2 of Section
L.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which is proposed to be carried out by a SME
or an LE, in whole or in part through the utilization of the proceeds of any Sub-
financing.
26. 
"Subsidiary Financing" means any financing provided by the Borrower to a PFI
pursuant to a Subsidiary Financing Agreement.
27. 
"Subsidiary Financing Agreement" means an agreement entered or to be entered
into between the Borrower and a PFI pursuant to paragraph 5 of Section LB of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
28. 
*'Working Capital Sub-project" means any investment for working capital to
increase the existing levels of production of a SME.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
I. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee: Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. 
The
-17
(ommitment ( 'harge shall he payable iemi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
19. 
"Comnitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
-68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the kfault Interest Rate (if any), any
prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of
a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable
upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any
Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words -and Commitment Charge are" after the word -interest".
