OFFICIAL 
DOCUMENTS 
LOAN NUMBER 8621-VN 
Amendment 
CREDIT NUMBER: 4948-VN 
Loan Agreement 
(Additional Financing for Urban Water Supply and Wastewater Project and Amendment to 
Original Financing Agreement) 
between 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
Dated 
~ ~ 
ol 5" 
'201 ~ 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER8621-VN 
Amendment 
CREDIT NUMBER: 4948-VN 
Loan Agreement 
(Additional Financing for Urban Water Supply and Wastewater Project and Amendment to 
Original Financing Agreement) 
between 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
Dated 
"""S' ~ 
o2. ~ 
'201§ 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
Agreement dated ! ~ 
~5 
, 201,, between SOCIALIST REPUBLIC 
OF VIETNAM ("Borrower") and rNTERNA TIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). This Agreement sets out: (i) the terms and conditions 
related to the Additional Financing for the Urban Water Supply and Wastewater Project; 
and (ii) amendments to the Original Financing Agreement as set out in Section III of the 
Appendix to this Agreement. 
WHEREAS for purposes of the Original Project, the International Development 
Association ("Association") had agreed to extend to the Borrower a Credit in an amount 
equivalent to one hundred twenty six million one hundred and forty thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR126,140,000) on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in 
the Original Financing Agreement (Credit Number 4948-VN) dated July 13, 20 I I, between 
the Borrower and the Association; and 
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Bank to provide further additional 
financial assistance in support of the Original Project; and the Bank has agreed on the 
basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to provide such additional financial assistance to the 
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and the Financing 
Agreement, of even date herewith; 
NOW, THEREFORE, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
l .OI. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute 
an integral part of this Agreement. 
I .02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, the Original 
Financing Agreement or in the Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II -
LOAN 
2.0 I. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of sixty-nine million Dollars 
(USD69,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
-2-
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this 
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the activities described in Part l(b)(ii) 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project"). 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section 
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than sixty days after the Effective Date. 
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of 
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance. 
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Article IV of the General .Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3 .02 ( e) of the General 
Conditions. 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are June 1 and December 1 in each year. 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or 
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all 
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the 
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and 
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable 
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of 
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by 
-3-
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in 
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article N of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines. 
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end, 
the Borrower shall carry out Part 2(c) of the Project through its Ministry of 
Construction, and shall cause the Project Provinces to carry out their respective 
activities under Part 1 of the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article 
V of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.0 I. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely a 
Sub-Loan Agreement (Binh Duong Province) has been executed by the Borrower, 
acting through its Ministry of Finance and the Binh Duong PPC, for the purpose 
of carrying out Part 1 (b )(ii) of the Project. 
4.02. 
The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following, namely, the Sub-Loan 
Agreement (Binh Duong Province) between the Borrower, acting through the 
Ministry of Finance, and the Binh Duong PPC has been duly authorized and/or 
ratified by the Borrower and the Binh Duong PPC and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower and Binh Duong PPC in accordance with its terms. 
4.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Governor, or a Deputy Governor, of State 
Bank of Vietnam. 
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is: 
State Bank of Vietnam 
49 Ly Thai To 
Hanoi, Vietnam 
Cable Address: 
VIETBANK 
Hanoi 
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is: 
-4-
Telex: 
412248 
NHTWVT 
Facsimile: 
(84-4) 3825 0612 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
64145(MCI) 
AGREED at Hanoi, Socialist Republic of Vietnam, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
Authorized Representative 
Name: -~LE~H~i-....rtfi~-ti..............-U~N~G-~ 
Title: --~6"l)~~\/_o..t~l\d'~---
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
By 
~\:.t 
Authorized Representative 
Name: \Jidori.9.J J;~k~ 
Title: 
Vi.CL tr:rt<tstclu"\i: 
-5-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description 
The objective of the Project is to increase access to sustainable water services and 
environment sanitation in selected urban areas in the Project Provinces. 
The Project consists of the Original Project but reflects modifications to Part 1 
through the addition of a new Part 1 (b )(ii), and to Part 2 through the addition of a new Part 
2(c) as set out below: 
Part 1: 
Part 2: 
Investments and Project Implementation 
(a) Water Supply 
Provision of water supply services to selected urban areas in the Project 
Provinces including: (i) provision of Sub-Loans to finance Sub-Projects; (ii) 
provision of technical advisory services; and (iii) carrying out of studies. 
(b) Environmental Sanitation 
Provision of environmental sanitation services to selected urban areas in Project 
Provinces including: (i) provision of Sub-Grants to finance Sub-Projects; (ii) 
provision of a Sub-Loan (Binh Duong Province) to Binh Duong Province for 
the carrying out of a Sub-Project (Binh Duong Province); (iii) provision of 
technical advisory services; and (iv) carrying out of studies. 
Technical Assistance 
(a) Institutional Strengthening and Project Monitoring 
Provision of support to strengthen the water and sanitation sector and to help 
Project implementation and monitoring, including: (i) (A) development of a 
water sector database and associated regulations to facilitate transfer of 
information on utility companies' performance to MOC; and (B) development 
of capacity on matters related to wastewater and sanitation, including 
developing guidance on developing Strategic Sanitation Plans, helping Project 
Provinces identify least-cost options to collect and treat wastewater, improving 
management of ori-site sanitation, identifying investment priorities and 
associated financing plans, and facilitation of a study tour to learn about 
sanitation and wastewater collection and management; and (ii) provision of 
Project implementation support on procurement, financial management, 
environmental and social safeguards, monitoring, and audits. 
-6-
(b) Improving the Efficiency of Investments and Operations 
Provision of support for policy and regulatory development and private sector 
participation, including: (i) development of government regulations on 
wastewater tariffs, water and sanitation operational improvements and 
investments needs, and private sector participation in the water and sanitation 
sector; and (ii) promoting private sector participation in the water and sanitation 
sector. 
(c) Priority Investment Support 
Provision of support for support to MOC for the development of a water sector 
priority investment, including: 
carrying out of surveys and conducting a 
feasibility study for Mekong regional water supply investments; detailed 
engineering designs; bidding documents; environmental and social safeguards 
reports; institutional development; financial audits; and MOC Project 
management activities. 
-7-
SCHEDULE2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
The institutional arrangements described in Sections I. A. 1, 2, 4, 5, 6 and 7 of 
Schedule 2 to the Original Financing Agreement are hereby incorporated by 
reference in this Part A with the following modifications, unless the context 
otherwise requires, and which shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to the Loan, and the 
Borrower hereby undertakes to comply with the provisions thereof to the same 
extent as if such provisions had been set out in full in this Agreement, except that: 
(a) 
the term "Recipient" shall be read as "Borrower"; 
(b) 
the term "Financing" shall be read as "Loan"; 
(c) 
the term "Association" shall be read as "Bank"; 
(d) 
the terms "this Agreement" shall be read as "the Loan Agreement"; and 
(e) 
the terms "Part 2(a) of the Project" shall be read as "Parts 2(a) and 2(c)" 
of the Project." 
2. 
For greater clarity and the avoidance of doubt, in view of the above incorporation 
of Sections I. A. 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, and 7 of Schedule 2 to the Original Financing 
Agreement in this Agreement, if the Original Financing Agreement terminates 
prior to the termination of this Agreement, such termination shall have no effect 
for purposes of this Agreement, and the provisions of the Original Financing 
Agreement incorporated in this Agreement pursuant to Section I. A. 1 of this 
Agreement shall continue in full force and effect between the Borrower and the 
Bank for purposes of this Agreement following and notwithstanding such 
termination of the Original Financing Agreement. 
B. 
Sub-Loan (Binh Duong Province) to the Binh Duong PPC 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds 
of the Loan available to the Binh Duong PPC under a Sub-Loan Agreement (Binh 
Duong Province) between the Borrower, acting through its Ministry of Finance 
and the Binh Duong PPC, in accordance with the eligibility criteria and procedures 
acceptable to the Bank as set forth in the OM, and under terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, inter a/ia, the following: 
(a) 
the Binh Duong PPC shall replace the environment protection fee 
applicable to Binh Duong PPC with a surcharge consisting of a percentage 
of water supply bill as wastewater tariffs by July 1, 2019, in accordance 
with the Government's regulations pertaining to the drainage and 
-8-
treatment of wastewater, as amended and/or supplemented from time to 
time; and 
(b) 
the terms and conditions set forth in Section I.B.2 of Schedule 2 to the 
Original Financing Agreement, except that: 
(i) 
the term "Recipient" shall be read to mean "Borrower"; 
(ii) 
the term "Association" shall be read to mean "Bank"; 
(iii) 
the term "Sub-Loan" shall be read to mean "Sub-Loan (Binh 
Duong Province)"; 
(iv) 
the terms "Sub-Loan Agreement" shall be read to mean "Sub-
Loan Agreement (Binh Duong Province)"; 
(v) 
the term "Sub-Project" shall be read to mean "Sub-Project (Binh 
Duong Province)"; 
(vi) 
the term "Water Supply Company" or "WSC" shall be read to 
mean " Binh Duong PPC"; 
(vii) 
the term "this Agreement" shall be read as "the Loan Agreement"; 
and 
(viii) 
Section I.B.2(d)(ii)(I) shall be deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under said Sub-Loan Agreement (Binh 
Duong Province) in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower 
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive 
said Sub-Loan Agreement (Binh Duong Province) or any of its provisions 
reflecting the terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank referred to in 
paragraph 1.(a) of this Section I. B 
C. 
Anti-Corruption 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
D. 
Safeguards 
1. 
The safeguards provisions in Section I. D. 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5(d) of Schedule 2 to the 
Original Financing Agreement are hereby incorporated by reference in this Part 
D with the following modifications, unless the context otherwise requires, and 
which shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to the Loan, and the Borrower hereby 
undertakes to comply with the provisions thereof to the same extent as if such 
provisions had been set out in full in this Agreement: 
(a) the term "Recipient" shall be read as "Borrower''; 
(b) the term "Association" shall be read as "Bank"; and 
(c) the terms "this Agreement" shall be read as "this Loan Agreement". 
-9-
2. 
Without limitation to any of its reporting obligations under Section II.A of this 
Schedule, the Borrower shall, or shall cause Binh Duong Province to, take all 
measures necessary on its part to regularly collect, compile, and submit to the 
Bank, as part of the Project Reports, information on the status of compliance with 
Safeguards Instruments, giving details of: 
(a) 
(b) 
(c) 
Section II. 
measures taken in furtherance of the Safeguards Instruments; 
conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the 
smooth implementation of the Safeguards Instruments; and 
remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such 
conditions. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
A. 
Project Reports 
1. 
The Borrower shall, or shall cause MOC and Binh Duong Province to, monitor and 
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the 
indicators acceptable to the Bank set forth in the Operations Manual. Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such 
report. 
2. 
The Borrower shall carry out jointly with the Bank, not later than twenty-four (24) 
months after the Effective Date, or such other period as may be agreed by the Bank, 
a midterm review to assess the status of Project implementation, as measures 
against the performance indicators set forth in the Operations Manual. Such review 
shall include an assessment of: (i) the progress in implementation; (ii) the results 
of monitoring and evaluation activities; (iii) the progress on procurement and 
disbursement; (iv) compliance with safeguard requirements; (v) adequacy of 
implementation arrangements; and (vi) the need to make any adjustments to the 
Project to improve performance. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with. the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall, 
or shall cause MOC and Binh Duong PPC to, prepare and furnish to the Bank as 
-10-
part of the Project Report not later than forty five ( 45) days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the 
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
3. 
The Borrower shall, or shall cause MOC and Binh Duong PPC to, have its 
Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) 
of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the 
period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for 
each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (06) months after 
the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement 
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Section. 
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section. 
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections · II and III of the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, 
as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting 
Services 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting 
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for 
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: 
-11-
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set forth in 
the Annex to this Schedule 2; 
(b) Shopping; and 
( c) Direct Contracting 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following 
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for 
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the 
Procurement Plan: 
(a) Least Cost Selection; 
(b) Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications; 
(c) Selection of Individual Consultants; and 
( d) Single Source Selection. 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject 
to the Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post 
Review by the Bank. 
-12-
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
A. 
General 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the 
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised 
from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant 
to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in 
paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or the Credit ("Category"), as the case 
may be, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan or the Credit to each Category, 
and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each 
Category. 
-13-
Category 
Amount of the 
Amount of the 
Percentage of 
Loan 
Credit 
Expenditures to be 
Allocated 
Allocated 
financed 
(expressed in 
(expressed in 
(inclusive of 
USD) 
SDR) 
Taxes) 
(1) Goods, Works and 
5,800,000 
90% of works and 
Consulting Services for 
goods, and 100% of 
Sub-Loans under Part 
consulting services 
l(a)(i) of the Project 
(2) Goods, Works and 
8,330,000 
90% of works and 
Consulting Services for 
goods, and 100% of 
Sub-Grants under Part 
consulting services 
l(b)(i) of the Project 
(3) Goods, Works and 
69,000,000 
16,230,000 
90% of works and 
Consulting Services for 
goods, and 100% of 
Sub-Loan (Binh Duong 
consulting services 
Province) 
under Part 
l(b)(ii) of the Project 
(4) Consulting 
4,940,000 
100% 
Services, Non-
Consulting Services 
and Trainings and 
Workshops under Part 
2(c) of the Project 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
69,000,000 
35,300,000 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2019. 
-14-
ANNEXtoSCHEDULE2 
National Competitive Bidding: Additional Procedures 
The procedures to be followed for the procurement of goods, non-consulting services, and 
works under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding shall be those 
set forth in: (a) Article 20 on Open Bidding of the Borrower's Law on Procurement 
No. 43/2013/QHB dated November 26, 2013 and related provisions necessary to effect 
the same; and (b) the Borrower's Decree No. 63/2014/ND-CP Guiding Implementation of 
the Law on the Procurement dated June 26, 2014 (collectively, "National Procurement 
Laws"), 
subject to the provisions of Section I and Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and the following provisions: 
Conflict of Interest 
1. 
A bidder shall not have a conflict of interest. Any bidder found to have a conflict 
of interest shall be ineligible for award of a contract. The provisions on conflict of interest 
as stated under Section I of the Procurement Guidelines shall apply. 
Eligibility 
2. 
The eligibility of bidders shall be as defined under Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines; accordingly, no bidder or potential bidder shall be declared ineligible for 
contracts financed by the Bank for reasons other than those provided in Section I of the 
Guidelines. Foreign bidders shall be eligible to participate in bidding under the same 
conditions as national bidders. In particular, no domestic preference over foreign bidders 
shall be granted to national bidders in bid evaluation, nor shall foreign bidders be asked or 
required to form joint ventures with or be subcontractors to national bidders in order to 
submit a bid. 
3. 
Government-owned enterprises or institutions of the Borrower's country are 
eligible to bid in the Borrower's country only if they can establish that they: (i) are legally 
and financially autonomous, (ii) operate under commercial law, and (iii) are not dependent 
agencies of the Borrower or Sub-Borrower. 
Time for Bid Preparation 
4. 
The time allowed for the preparation and submission of bids for large and/or 
complex packages shall not be less than thirty (30) days from the date of the invitation to 
bid or the date of availability of the bidding documents, whichever is later. 
Standard Bidding Documents 
5. 
The standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used. 
-15-
Bid Opening and Bid Evaluation 
6. 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for submission of 
bids, regardless of the number of bids received. 
7. 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria that shall be 
clearly specified in the bidding documents and quantified in monetary terms for evaluation 
criteria other than price; merit points shall not be used in bid evaluation. No bid shall be 
eliminated from detailed evaluation on the basis of minor, non-substantive deviations. The 
evaluation of bidder's qualifications shall be conducted separately subsequent to the 
technical and commercial evaluation of the bid. 
8. 
A contract shall be awarded, within the period of the validity of bids, to the bidder 
who meets the appropriate standards of capability and resources and whose bid has been 
determined (i) to be substantially responsive to the bidding documents and (ii) to offer the 
lowest evaluated cost. A bidder shall neither be required nor permitted, as a condition for 
award, to undertake obligations not specified in the bidding documents or otherwise to 
modify the bid as originally submitted. 
9. 
No bid shall be rejected on the basis of a comparison with the employer's estimate 
and budget ceiling without the Bank's prior written agreement. 
Rejection of All Bids and Re-bidding 
10. 
Rejection of all bids is justified when there is lack of effective competition, or all 
bids are not substantially responsive, or no bidder meets the specified qualification criteria, 
or the bid price of the lowest evaluated winning bid is substantially higher than the 
Borrower's updated estimated cost or available budget. All bids shall not be rejected or 
new bids solicited without the Bank's prior written agreement. 
Complaints by Bidders and Handling of Complaints 
11. 
The Borrower shall implement an effective and independent protest mechanism, 
acceptable to the Bank, allowing bidders to protest and have their protests handled in a 
timely manner. 
-16-
SCHEDULE3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan 
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal 
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such 
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentae:e) 
On each June 1 and December 1 
Beginning June 1, 2021 
throuM December 1, 2040 
2.5% 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the 
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn 
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule. 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount 
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the 
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share") 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
-17-
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal 
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal. Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices 
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions 
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after 
the adoption of such billing system. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate 
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the 
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if 
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the 
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each 
such amount. 
-18-
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants'', dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011. 
2. 
"Binh Duong PPC" means the local government of Binh Duong Province, or any 
successor thereto. 
3. 
"Binh Duong Province" means the province of such name located in southern part 
of the Borrower's territory, or any successor thereto. 
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement." 
5. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank 
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014). 
6. 
"Financing Agreement" means the agreement between the Borrower and the 
Association for the Project of the same date, as such agreement may be amended 
from time to time. "Financing Agreement" includes all appendices, schedules, and 
agreements supplemental to the Financing Agreement. 
7. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
8. 
"Original Financing Agreement" means the financing agreement for the Original 
Project between the Borrower and the Association, dated July 13, 2011 (Credit No 
4948-VN). 
9. 
"Original Project" means the Project described in Schedule 1 to the Original 
Financing Agreement. 
10. 
""Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works 
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by 
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014). 
11. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated 
March 22, 2016 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines 
-19-
and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from 
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
12. 
"Safeguard Instruments" means, collectively, the Resettlement Policy Framework, 
Resettlement Action Plan, or Environmental Management Plan and Environmental 
Code of Practice, as amended and/or supplemented from time to time. 
13. 
"Sub-Loan (Binh Duong Province)" means a loan made by the Borrower out of a 
portion of the proceeds of the Loan and the Financing to a Project Province, in 
accordance with a Sub-Loan Agreement (Binh Duong Province) for financing a 
Sub-Project (Binh Duong Province) under Part 1 (b )(ii) of the Project, and referred 
to in Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
14. 
"Sub-Loan Agreement (Binh Duong Province)" means an agreement entered into 
between the Borrower and Binh Duong PPC, out of a portion of the proceeds of 
the Loan and the Financing, to said Province for purposes of implementing the 
Sub-Project (Binh Duong Province) under Part l(b)(ii) of the Project, and referred 
to in Section I.B. l of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended 
from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term 
includes any annexes or schedules to such agreement. 
15. 
"Sub-Project (Binh Duong Province)" means a waste water investment project 
financed by a Sub-Loan (Binh Duong Province) under Part l(b)(ii) of the Project 
in accordance with the eligibility criteria set forth in this Agreement and the 
Operations Manual. 
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows: 
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section 
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below. 
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows: 
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge 
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at 
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee"). 
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the 
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the 
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty 
-20-
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts 
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. 
The 
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment 
Date." 
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and 
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in 
paragraph 2 above. 
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following 
definition of"Commitment Charge'', and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs 
accordingly: 
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the 
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.0l(b)." 
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the 
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a). 
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the 
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows: 
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the 
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including 
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any 
prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of 
a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable 
upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any 
Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower." 
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the 
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting 
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest". 
Section III. 
Modifications to the Original Financing Agreement 
1. 
Section II. A of Schedule 2 to the Original Financing Agreement is amended to 
read as follows: 
"A. 
Project Reports 
-21-
1. 
The Recipient shall, or shall cause MOC and Project Provinces 
to, monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 
of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators 
acceptable to the Association as set forth in the Operations 
Manual. 
Each Project Report shall cover the period of one 
calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than forty-five days after the end of the period covered by 
such report". 
2. 
Section I. A. 6 (a) of Schedule 2 to the Original Financing Agreement is amended 
to read as follows: 
"(a) maintain an Operations Manual acceptable to the Association, setting forth 
guidelines and procedures for the implementation of the Project, including: (i) 
policies, procedures and requirements under the Project in regard to financial 
management, flow of funds, definition of roles and responsibilities, internal control 
and reconciliation, record keeping, reporting and auditing; (ii) guidelines and 
procedures for procurement consistent with the provisions of Section III of this 
Schedule 2, as well as the allocation of roles and responsibilities for procurement 
review and approval; (iii) the Governance and Transparency Action Plan; and (iv) 
(A) Sub-Projects eligibility criteria; (B) guidelines and procedures for Sub-Grant 
applications; (C) approval process, assessment, monitoring, and evaluation ofSub-
Projects; (D) guidelines on procurement and financial management aspects under 
Sub-Projects; and (E) a template for Implementation Agreements". 
3. 
Section IV. B. 2 of Schedule 2 to the Original Financing Agreement is amended 
to read as follows: 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2019. 
