LOAN NUMBER 8572-AM 
Loan Agreement 
(Local Economy and Infrastructure Development Project) 
between 
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA 
and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
Dated f"?J- W tR: ~ J 3 , 2016 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8572-AM 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
Agreement dated 
FePtu~13. 2016, between the REPUBLIC OF 
ARMENIA ("Borrower") and the INTE 
ATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I -GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute 
an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix 
to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II- LOAN 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty-five million Dollars 
($55,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this 
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement ("Project"). 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section 
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of 
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance. 
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such 
non-payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable 
by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the 
General Conditions. 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or 
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all 
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the 
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and 
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable 
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of 
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by 
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in 
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines. 
ARTICLE III -PROJECT 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end, 
the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project Implementing 
Entity, with the assistance of the Project Steering Committee and Working Group, 
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the 
Project Agreement. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV- REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists namely of the following, that the 
Project Implementing Entity's Legislation has been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, materially and adversely, in the 
-2-
opinion of the Bank the ability of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any 
of its obligations under the Project Agreement or the Agency Contract. 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists namely, that any event specified in 
Section 4.0I of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of ninety (90) 
days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE V- EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.0I. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
(a) 
The Agency Contract has been executed by the parties thereto in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
(b) 
The Project Implementing Entity has adopted the Operation Manual, in 
form and substance, satisfactory to the Bank. 
(c) 
The Borrower has established the Project Steering Committee in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
(d) 
The Borrower has established the Working Group in a manner satisfactory 
to the Bank. 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of namely of the following, that the Agency 
Contract has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Project 
Implementing Entity and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the Project 
Implementing Entity in accordance with its terms. 
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and fifty (150) days after the 
date of this Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance. 
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
I Meliq Adamyan Street 
00 I 0 Yerevan 
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA 
-3-
Facsimile: 
+374II 800 I32 
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is: 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 
248423(MCI) or 
64145(MCI) 
1-202-4 77-6391 
AGREED at Yerevan, Armenia, as of the day and year first above written. 
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA 
By 
Authorized Representative 
Name: 
Ga_q;~ K~~c A a..fr'-JcH'I 
0' 
v 
Title: /f! n/ sfe...r co{ {inance.-
{; 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
By 
-4-
Authorized Representative 
Name: --'-/J-=----f_e_r_L~____,-,____-_ 
_,_Tt__,_t:;_;.: 1_/_/ '--IS-=-) C'---'-f'l 
Title: _C__,-C'<-..:i l-::..:.._I.L..:...ii-1-~--Ly----:·· L.,_f __ 
/)_/.:::;_r c_·· .::..lc0'-'-c--'-r 
7 
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description 
The objective of the Project is to improve infrastructure services and 
institutional capacity for increased tourism contribution to local economy in the 
Selected Regions of the Borrower's territory. 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part 1 Heritage Hub Regeneration and Tourism Circuit Development 
a) 
Provision of Investment Subproject Financing to Participating Beneficiaries 
to finance the carrying out of urban regeneration activities; including, but 
not limited to, restoration of public infrastructure, building facades and 
roofs, public spaces, museums, access roads, water and sanitation, drainage 
and street lighting all in the old towns of Goris and Meghri, and the heritage 
villages of Areni, Tatev and Tandzatap. 
b) 
Provision of Investment Subproject Financing to Participating Beneficiaries 
to finance the carrying out of cultural heritage preservation and improved 
site management activities which activities may include, inter-alia: i) 
implementation 
of site 
management plans 
recommendations, 
ii) 
construction of a visitor facilities with information centers, cafes, public 
toilets and safe parking area, iii) preservation of cultural heritage 
monuments, museums, and surrounding houses; and iv) improvement of 
connectivity with access roads and public infrastructure, all in selected 
locations of the touristic circuit: Temple and Gorge in Garni, Geghard 
Monastery, Dvin Museum, Khor Virap Monastery, Areni marketplace and 
cave, Mozrov cave, Zorats Qarer (Karahunge/Stonehendge ), Khndzoresk, 
Haghpat and Sanahin. 
c) 
Provision of Investment Subproject Financing to Participating Beneficiaries 
to finance the carrying out of investments for the creation of public 
infrastructure to attract private investments in tourism or agribusiness 
including inter-alia: construction of roads, sidewalks, water, sanitation, 
communication and other public infrastructures all in the Selected Regions. 
d) Provision of: 
(i) 
technical assistance to the Project Implementing Entity to ensure 
proper design, implementation and supervision of Investment 
Subprojects, including inter-alia the carrying out of: 
( 1) 
construction supervision, and monitoring of environmental and 
social safeguards aspects of the Project; (2) outreach and public 
-5-
awareness activities; and (3) feasibility studies and design of 
Investment Subprojects; and 
(ii) 
provision of support on Project management to, inter alia: (1) carry 
out Project audits; (2) comply with the financial management and 
procurement obligations under the Project; (3) monitor and evaluate 
Project activities; and ( 4) provide training and the acquisition of 
goods required thereof and finance Operating Costs. 
Part 2 Institutional Development 
Carrying out of institutional capacity building acttvtties 
for the Project 
Implementing Entity, the Development Foundation Armenia (DFA), the MoE, the 
Historical and Culture Heritage Protection Agency (HCHPA), and for any other 
selected local and regional entity, which activities may include, inter-alia: (i) 
setting up destination management organization and offices in the 
Selected 
Regions; (ii) marketing and promotion; (iii) preparation of sustainable site 
management plans for selected cultural and natural heritage sites; (iv) training for 
skilled workforce development and capacity building; (v) advisory services on 
improvement capacity for protection and management of the World Heritage Sites; 
(vi) advisory services to SMEs for business start-up/expansion in the tourism 
sector; and (vii) performance monitoring and evaluation activities. 
Part 3 Contingent Emergency Response 
Provision of support for community services and infrastructure rehabilitation 
and reconstruction to respond to an Eligible Emergency within the Selected 
Regions, as needed. 
-6-
SCHEDULE2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements: 
1. The Borrower shall vest the responsibilities of the high level coordination and 
policy support of the Project to the MoE. 
2. The Borrower shall establish and maintain throughout the implementation of the 
Project, the Project Steering Committee chaired by the Deputy Prime Minister and 
composed by the MoE, MoTA&ES, MoC, MoF, MoNP, MoUD, DFA and the 
Project Implementing Entity with responsibilities of multi-agency coordination, 
high-level strategic decisions, approval of Investment Subproject proposals, and 
overall oversight of Project implementation. 
3. The Borrower shall establish and thereafter operate and maintain, throughout the 
implementation of the Project, a Working Group, composed by the technical 
representatives of, inter alia, MoE, MoTA&ES, MoC, MoF, MoUD, HCHPA, 
MoNP, the Project Implementing Entity, DFA, the Armenian Apostolic Holy 
Church, and local-self-governments benefitting from the Project, to ensure 
effective 
inter-agency communication, with the responsibility of facilitating 
Project implementation and providing technical recommendations to the Project 
Steering Committee. 
4. The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to: 
(a) 
prepare, in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, an 
operation manual ("Operation Manual") setting out the operational and 
administrative procedures and arrangements for Project implementation 
including: (i) the procurement and financial management procedures; 
(ii) the eligibility criteria for the selection of Investment Subprojects in 
Participating Beneficiaries; (iii) the terms and conditions for Investment 
Subproject Financing; 
(iv) the 
procurement 
and 
implementation 
arrangements 
for 
Investment 
Subprojects; 
(v) the 
staffing 
and 
management responsibilities of the Project Implementing Entity; (vi) the 
procedures of the implementation of the ESMF; (vii) the procedures of 
the implementation 
of 
the 
RPF; 
(viii) 
the establishment 
and 
implementation procedures for the grievance redress mechanism; and 
emergency response procedures for approval of investments referred to 
in Part 3 of the Project; 
(b) 
carry out the Project in accordance with an Operation Manual satisfactory 
to the Bank; and 
-7-
(c) 
furnish to the Bank for its prior approval, any proposed amendment to the 
provisions of the Operation Manual and, thereafter, put into effect such 
amendment as shall have been agreed with the Bank. 
B. 
Agency Contract 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds 
of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity, on a grant basis, pursuant 
to an Agency Contract to be entered into between the Borrower, through the 
Minister, Chief of Staff of the Republic of Armenia Government, and the Project 
Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions approved by the Bank ("Agency 
Contract"). 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the 
Agency Contract in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive, fail to 
enforce, or terminate the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions. 
C. 
Anti-Corruption 
The Borrower shall, and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to, carry out 
the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
D. 
Safeguards 
Environmental Management 
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to: 
(a) 
(i) carry out the Project in accordance with the ESMF in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank and necessary to ensure that the Project is 
implemented in accordance with sound environmental and social practices 
and standards; (ii) if applicable, and prior to the initiation of any 
Investment Subproject, prepare and disclose, and carry out stakeholder 
consultations on, the corresponding ESMP and (iii) immediately thereafter 
include said ESMP in the relevant tender documents and carry out said 
ESMP in accordance with its terms and in a manner acceptable to the 
Bank; 
(b) 
(i) provide to the Bank for its prior review any revision proposed to be 
introduced into the ESMF, ESCRS, ESIAs, ESRs, or ESMPs, as the case 
may be, in order to achieve the respective objectives, and (ii) immediately 
thereafter introduce such revision into the pertinent document as shall have 
been agreed with the Bank; and 
(c) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, the 
-8-
implementation of the ESMF as well as of each ESCRS, ESR and ESMP 
and the achievement of their respective objectives. 
Resettlement 
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the 
following: 
(a) 
(i) Wherever implementation of the Project, any Investment Subproject, 
or any part thereof, would give rise to Affected Persons, provide to the 
Bank for its review, resettlement action plans prepared in accordance with 
the principles and procedures set forth in the RPF and, thereafter, 
implement in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, such resettlement action 
plans as shall have been accepted by the Bank as being satisfactory; and 
(ii) works on any specific Project site that give rise to Affected Persons 
shall not commence until: (1) the respective RAP is fully implemented; 
and (2) a report on the status of compliance with the RAP is prepared and 
furnished to the Bank, all in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
(b) 
Provide to the Bank for its prior review, any revision proposed to be 
introduced into the RPF or RAP, as the case may be, to achieve the 
respective document's objectives, and thereafter introduce such revision 
into such document as shall have been agreed with the Bank. 
(c) 
Maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, the 
implementation of the RPF and RAPs, and the achievement of their 
respective objectives. 
Grievance Redress Mechanism 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to establish and 
implement, throughout the Project implementation, an easily accessible grievance 
redress mechanism, acceptable to the Bank, to address feedback and grievances 
relating to the Project as set forth in the Operation Manual. 
International Waterways 
4. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to ensure, when any 
activity under an Investment Subproject will involve any international waterway 
(as defined in the Bank's Operational Policy 7.50), that: 
(a) 
such activity shall be limited to ongoing schemes, projects involving 
additions or alterations that require rehabilitation, construction, or other 
changes that: (i) will not adversely change the quality or quantity of water 
flows to the other riparian; and (ii) will not be adversely affected by the 
other riparian's possible water use; and 
-9-
(b) 
such activity shall be limited to only minor additions or alterations to the 
ongoing scheme and it does not cover works and activities that would 
exceed the original scheme, change its nature, or so alter or expand its 
scope and extent as to make it appear new or different scheme. 
E. 
Implementation arrangements for Part 3 of the Project 
1. 
After the occurrence of an Eligible Emergency, and prior to the carrying out any 
activities under Part 3 of the Project, the Borrower shall take the following 
measures: 
(a) 
determine that an Eligible Emergency has occurred and the Bank has 
agreed with said determination; 
(b) 
declare the State of Disaster and Emergency upon the occurrence of said 
Eligible Emergency; 
(c) 
cause the Project Implementing Entity to furnish to the Bank a list of 
proposed community services and infrastructure sector investments and a 
request to finance the Emergency Expenditures under Category (3) of the 
Project in order to respond to said Eligible Emergency; 
(d) 
cause the Project Implementing Entity to update and adopt the Operational 
Manual as needed, defining the scope of activities, implementation 
arrangements, procurement and disbursement arrangements under Part 3 
of the Project; 
(e) 
cause the Project Implementing Entity to: (i) prepare or update, as the case 
may be, the environmental and social safeguard instruments referred to in 
Section I.D 1 and 2 of this Schedule, and thereafter, disclose and consult 
said instruments, and (ii) ensure that actions which are required under said 
instruments have been implemented; and 
all under terms and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
A. 
Project Reports 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to monitor and evaluate 
the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators 
acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one ( 1) 
calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) 
days after the end of the period covered by such report. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
-10-
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish 
to the Bank not later than forty-five ( 45) days after the end of each calendar 
semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the semester, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (I) fiscal year of the Borrower. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement 
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Section. 
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, 
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, 
as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting 
Services 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting 
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for 
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: 
-11-
c. 
1. 
2. 
Procurement Method 
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding of the Borrower may be used for procurement 
of goods, works and non-consulting services for the Project, provided that the 
following provisions are complied with: 
(b) 
(c) 
(d) 
(e) 
Bank 
(i) 
entities in which the Borrower owns a majority shareholding shall not 
be invited to participate in tenders for the Borrower unless they are 
and can be shown to be legally and financially autonomous and 
operate under commercial law; 
(ii) 
post-qualification criteria shall only pertain to past contract 
performance, financial, managerial and technical capabilities of 
bidders; 
(iii) 
joint venture partners shall be jointly and severally liable for their 
obligations; 
(iv) 
estimated contract prices shall not be advertised; 
(v) 
no bids shall be rejected at bid opening. The opening procedures shall 
comply with provisions of Section 
2.45 of the Procurement 
Guidelines; 
· 
(vi) 
no bids shall be rejected solely because they exceed the estimated 
price. 
Bids can be cancelled and new bids invited, only if the 
conditions set forth in sections 2.61- 2.64 of the Procurement 
Guidelines are met; 
(vii) 
all bid evaluation criteria shall be quantifiable in monetary terms or 
expressed as a pass/fail criteria; and 
(viii) 
without limitation to paragraph 3 of the Appendix 1 to the 
Procurement Guidelines, the Bank's prior review is required before 
agreeing to any modification in the contract scope/conditions during 
implementation. 
Shopping 
Framework Agreement 
Direct Contracting 
Community Participation procedures which have been found acceptable to the 
Particular Methods of Selection of Consultants' Services 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following 
methods, other than Quality and Cost -based Selection, may be used for 
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the 
Procurement Plan: 
-12-
Selection Method 
(a) 
Quality-based Selection 
(b) 
Fixed-Budget Selection 
(c) 
Least Cost Selection 
(d) 
Selection Based on Consultants Qualification 
(e) 
Single Source Selection of consulting firms 
(f) 
Procedures set forth in uaragraghs 5.1 through 5.5 of the Consultants 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(g) 
Single Source urocedures for the selection of Individual Consultants 
(h) 
Selection of United Nation Agencies (UNESCO) 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
E. 
Procurement of Emergency Expenditures for Part 3 of the Project 
Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in this Section, the eligible 
expenditures required under Part 3 of the Project shall be procured in accordance 
with the procurement methods and procedures set forth in the Operational Manual. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
1. General 
2. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the 
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised 
from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant 
to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in 
paragraph 2 below. 
3. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the 
-13-
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
Percentage of 
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be 
Allocated 
Financed 
Category 
(expressed in US$) 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Goods, works, non-
53,962,500 
80% 
consulting services, 
consultants' services, and/or 
Training under Parts l and 2 
of the Project 
(2) Operating Costs 
900,000 
80% 
(3) Front-end Fee 
137,500 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of 
the General Conditions 
(4) Goods, works, non-
0 
100% 
consulting services, 
consultants' services under 
Part 3 of the Project 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
55 000,000 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part 1 of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; and 
(b) 
under Category ( 4) until the Borrower has furnished evidence, satisfactory 
to the Bank that the measures referred to in Sections I.E.1 of Schedule 2 
of this Agreement and Section I.E of the Schedule of the Project 
Agreement, have been taken by the Borrower or by the Project 
Implementing Entity, as provided by said sections. 
2. 
The Closing Date is April 30, 2021. 
-14-
SCHEDULE3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan 
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal 
Payment Date~ by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such 
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each May 15 and November 15 
Beginning November 15, 2030 
4.76% 
through May 15, 2040 
On November 15, 2040 
4.80% 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
3. 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the 
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn 
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule. 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount 
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the 
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share") 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal 
-15-
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices 
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions 
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after 
the adoption of such billing system. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate 
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the 
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if 
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the 
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each 
such amount. 
-16-
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
"Affected Persons" means persons that have their: (i) standard of living adversely 
affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, 
agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or 
possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) access to productive assets 
adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (iv) business, occupation, work 
or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily or permanently. 
2. 
"Agency Contract" means the legal agreement referred to in Section I. B.1 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as said agreement may be amended from time to 
time with the agreement of the Bank. 
3. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011. 
4. 
"Armenian Apostolic Holy Church" means the supreme authority of the Armenian 
Apostolic Holy Church. 
5. 
"ATDF", or "Project Implementing Entity" means the "Armenia Territorial 
Development Fund" or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank, established 
with legal personality pursuant to ATDF' s Legislation. 
6. 
"ATDF Legislation" means 
the 
Borrower's Decrees 
No. 
162, 
dated 
April 11, 2000, No. 772- A, dated June 8, 2006 and No. N 1521-N dated 
December 25, 2014, ATDF's Charter and any other supplemental regulations 
related to ATDF' s creation and operations. 
7. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
8. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants under ffiRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank 
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014). 
9. 
"DFA" means the "Development Foundation Armenia" an agency created 
pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 1523-N dated December 18, 2014 and 
responsible for tourism development, investment and export promotion. 
10. 
"Eligible Emergency" means an event that has caused, or is likely to imminently 
cause, a major adverse economic and/or social impact to the Borrower, associated 
with a natural or man-made crisis or disaster. 
11. 
"Emergency Expenditures" means any of the Eligible Expenditures set forth in the 
list referred to in Section I.E. I (C) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and required 
for the activities included in Part 3 of the Project. 
-17-
12. 
"Environmental and Social Impact Assessment" of "ESIA" means the social and 
environmental assessment of a proposed activity under the Project, which has been 
classified as high risk Category B, for which the exact nature and magnitude of 
expected negative impacts may not be identified and mitigation measures may not 
be developed without collecting additional information and carrying out in-depth 
research, including the pertinent report and related ESMP. 
13. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the 
framework, satisfactory to the Bank, disclosed by the Borrower on November 2, 
2015, and in the Bank's Infoshop on November 2, 2015, which sets forth, inter 
alia, the policies and procedures for: carrying out ESCRS, ESIAs, ESRs; and the 
preparation of ESMPs (including, the requirements for mitigation measures to be 
included in the ESMPs), as said framework may be amended from time to time 
with the agreement of the Bank. 
14. 
"Environmental and Social Review" or "ESR" means the review of each proposed 
Investment Subproject which has been classified as high risk environmental 
Category B through the ESCRS and involving Affected Persons, and carried out 
in accordance with the ESMF, to: (a) describe the biophysical environment in and 
around the proposed Investment Subproject site, (b) identify and assess any 
potential environmental, social and cultural resource impact during the 
implementation of such Investment Subproject; and (c) evaluate alternatives, and 
design appropriate mitigation, management, and monitoring measures, as reflected 
in the related ESMP. 
15. 
"Environmental and Social Management Plan" or "ESMP" means any specific 
environmental and social management plan developed for an Investment 
Subproject in accordance with the ESMF and satisfactory to the Bank; as said 
ESMP may be part of an ESIA report or an ESR, or a self-standing document 
prepared using a template for checklist environmental and social management 
plans for small construction and rehabilitation works included in the ESMF. 
16. 
"Environmental, Social and Cultural Resource Screening" or "ESCRS" means the 
mandatory review of each proposed Investment Subproject which has been carried 
out in accordance with the ESMF for purposes of categorizing each Investment 
Subproject by expected environmental, social and cultural risks and impacts, 
filtering out each Investment Subproject proposal based on degree of detriment, 
and identifying the need for preparing an ESIA report, an ESR, an ESMP and/or 
RAP for the pertinent Investment Subprojects. 
17. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
18. 
"HCHPA" means the Borrower's "Historical and Cultural Heritage Protection 
Agency" created pursuant to RA Government decision No. 202, dated March 6, 
2002 and responsible for provision of services in the field of historical and cultural 
monuments preservation or any successor thereto. 
-18-
19. 
"Investment Subproject Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section I.E. I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
20. 
"Investment Subproject Financing" means a grant made or to be made out of the 
proceeds of the Loan by the Project Implementing Entity to a Participating 
Beneficiary, in accordance with the provisions of Section I.E of Schedule to the 
Project Agreement. 
21. 
"Investment Subproject" means any of the investments referred to in Part 1 (a) (b) 
or (c) of the Project. 
22. 
"MoC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Culture or any successor thereto. 
23. 
"MoE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Economy or any successor thereto. 
24. 
"MoF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance or any successor thereto. 
25. 
"MoNP" means the Borrower's Ministry of Nature Protection or any successor 
thereto. 
26. 
"MoTA&ES" means the Borrower's Ministry of Territorial Administration and 
Emergency Situations or any successor thereto. 
27. 
"Mo UD" means the Borrower's Ministry of Urban Development or any successor 
thereto. 
28. 
"Operating Costs" means reasonable and necessary incremental expenses incurred 
by the Project Implementing Entity with respect to Project implementation, 
management and monitoring, and outreach and awareness campaigns including: 
office rental, utilities, office supplies, communications, printing and publication, 
translation and interpretation expenses, local travel costs, field trip expenses and 
per diems, vehicle insurance and inspection, office and vehicle maintenance and 
repair, and the portion of the Project Implementing Entity's staff salaries and 
pertinent costs of their health insurance premiums which are incremental to the 
Project, as determined by the Bank (excluding any salaries for the Borrower's civil 
servants); and other reasonable and necessary activities directly related to Project 
implementation, management and monitoring as may be agreed upon with the 
Bank in an annual basis. 
29. 
"Operation Manual" means the manual referred to in Section I.A.4 of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement and which manual includes the Environmental and Social 
Management Framework and the Resettlement Policy Framework, as such manual 
may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank. 
30. 
"Participating Beneficiaries" means any municipality, community, marz, 
community based organization, local self-government, local or national agency or 
entity involved with the tourism sector or with the administration of religious 
organizations that meets the criteria set forth in the Operation Manual to carry out 
an Investment Subproject. 
-19-
' . 
31. 
"Private Investor Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in Section 
I.E.4 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement 
32. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works 
and Non-consulting Services under lliRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by 
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014). 
33. 
"Procurement Plan" means the procurement plan for the Project dated November 
12, 2015, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from 
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
34. 
"Project Steering Committee" means the committee referred in Section I.A.2 of 
Schedule 2 of in this Agreement. 
35. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" or "RAP" means any specific resettlement action plan 
developed for Project activities in accordance with the RPF and satisfactory to the 
Bank, and "Resettlement Action Plans" means, collectively, all such Resettlement 
Action Plans. 
36. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the resettlement policy 
framework disclosed by the Borrower on November 2, 2015, and in the Bank's 
Infoshop on November 2, 2015 which sets forth inter alia: (a) the description of 
areas covered by the Project; (b) the legal basis and screening process for land 
acquisition, resettlement and land use in connection with works and construction 
activities to be carried out under the Project; (c) the resettlement principles and 
entitlements of Affected Persons based on different categories of impact; (d) the 
procedures for consultation, valuation, compensation, livelihoods restoration and 
other assistance provided to the Affected Persons, including the grievance process; 
and (e) the responsibilities, procedures and requirements for the development and 
implementation of site-specific RAPs, as said framework may be amended from 
time to time with the agreement of the Bank. 
37. 
"SME" means small and medium enterprises. 
38. 
"Selected Regions" means the Borrower's regions of Ararat, Vayots Dzor and 
Syunik, Kotayk and Lori, and any other region acceptable to the Bank. 
39. 
"State of Disaster and Emergency" means a formal declaration by the Borrower 
according to its regulations, of a state of disaster and emergency after a natural or 
man-made crisis or disaster has occurred 
40. 
"Training" means expenditures incurred by the Project Implementing Entity in 
connection with carrying out training activities under Part 2 of the Project, 
including travel costs and per diem for local trainees, study tours, workshops, 
conferences, and non-degree fellowships, rental of facilities and equipment and 
training materials and related supplies based on a semi-annual budget agreed with 
the Bank. 
-20-
' . 
41. 
"Working Group" means the working group referred to in Section I. A. 3 of this 
Agreement. 
42. 
"World Heritage Site" means any property that is included in the UNESCO's 
World Heritage List. 
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows: 
I. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section 
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below. 
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows: 
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge 
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan 
amount at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee"). 
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the 
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement 
(the "Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from 
a date sixty days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective 
dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan 
Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-
annually in arrears on each Payment Date." 
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and 
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in 
paragraph 2 above. 
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following 
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs 
accordingly: 
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified 
in the Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.0l(b)." 
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the 
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a). 
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the 
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows: 
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties 
to the Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, 
including (but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, 
-21-
interest, the Front-end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default 
Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a 
Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread 
Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of 
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount 
payable by the Borrower." 
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the 
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting 
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest". 
-22-
