OFFICIAL LvG-K
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8677-TR
Loan Agreement
(Sustainable Cities Project)
between
ILLER BANKASI ANONIM SIRKETI
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
'bec.0er1 
, 2016
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8677-TR
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
7eCem b<- 
2 -
, 2016, between ILLER
BANKASI ANONIM SIRKETI ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred twenty-one million two
hundred thousand Euro (E121,200,000) as such amount may be converted from
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of
Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing Part B of the project
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided,
that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the
General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower
-2-
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower, the Guarantor, and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that
the Borrower shall have adopted the Operational Manual satisfactory to the Bank.
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Director General.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Iller Bankasi Anonim Sirketi
Kizilirmak Mahallesi
Ufuk Universitesi Caddesi No: 12
06510 Cukurambar/Cankaya
Ankara
Republic of Turkey
Facsimile:
90 312 508 79 49
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at Ankara, Republic of Turkey, as of the day and year first above written.
ILLER BANKASI ANONIM SIRKETI
By: 
4 
sbfBPiAT
el Miidfir V.
Authorized Representative
Name:
Title:
By: 
fc,
Authorized Representative
Na A icahit DEMIRTA$
7finmfim Kui ulu Bakau
Title:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By:
Authorized Representative
Name: 
/9J AL--
Title: -A
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve the planning capacity of, and access to
targeted municipal services in, participating municipalities and utilities.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A. Sustainable City Planning and Management Systems
1. 
Provision of technical assistance and goods to selected municipalities and their
affiliated utilities to ensure comprehensive and integrated planning, including support for
spatial, social, environmental and financial/capital investment planning and management.
2. 
Provision of support to selected municipalities and their affiliated utilities in their
preparation of feasibility studies, social and/or environmental impact assessments and
engineering designs for Sub-projects.
3. 
Strengthening the capacity of the Borrower to implement the above described
activities under this Part A and to manage sustainable city systems, including in the areas
of contract management, management and implementation of sustainable city investments
through: (a) provision of support for embedding city-level actions for climate change,
energy efficiency, water, urban transport, solid waste management, and urban planning and
in building awareness on international practices to promote and implement sustainable
cities actions; (b) provision of training and capacity building to municipalities; and
(c) preparation of reports and studies that examine required reforms and propose changes
with an aim to improving planning practices for integrated and comprehensive planning.
Part B. Municipal Investments
Establish and operate a municipality credit facility targeted to infrastructure
investments, 
through the provision 
of Sub-loans 
to Sub-borrowers 
(including
municipalities and their affiliated utilities) to finance the cost of goods, works, non-
consultant services and consultants' services required to carry out investments in Sub-
projects, including in the public transport, water and sanitation, solid waste management,
and energy sectors.
Part C. Project Management
Provision of support to the Borrower for implementation of Part B of the Project
including provision of goods and consultants services for supervision and monitoring and
evaluation, as well as for public outreach and communication.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall: (a) maintain, until the completion of the Project, the Project
Management Unit ("PM_U") established within its International Relations
Department 
and 
responsible 
for 
coordinating 
and 
supervising 
Project
implementation; and (b) ensure that the PMU functions at all times in a manner
and with staffing, budgetary resources and authority, necessary and appropriate for
Project implementation acceptable to the Bank.
B. 
Project Operational Manual
1. 
(a) 
The Borrower, for purposes of implementing the Project, shall develop an
Operational Manual ("OM") setting out, inter alia:
(i) 
policies and procedures: relating to implementation of the Project;
for the selection of municipalities that will benefit from the
technical assistance and support to be provided under Parts A. 1
and A.2 of the Project; and for the selection and financing of Sub-
projects;
(ii) 
financial management arrangements, requirements and detailed
procedures consistent with the provisions of Section II.B of this
Schedule 2;
(iii) 
guidelines and procedures for procurement consistent with the
provisions of Section III of this Schedule 2; and
(iv) 
safeguards obligations consistent with the provisions of Section
I.D of this Schedule 2 and requirements under the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines.
(b) 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in a timely manner and in
accordance with the provisions of the OM.
(c) 
The Borrower shall not amend or waive, or permit to be amended or
waived the OM or any provisions thereof, except with the prior written
approval of the Bank.
-7-
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall, and cause each relevant Sub-borrower to, with respect to civil
works under the Project: (a) prepare an ESIA, Partial ESIA, or ESMP, as the case
may be, in accordance with the principles and procedures set forth in the ESMF;
(b) thereafter, provide said ESIA, Partial ESIA, or ESMP to the Bank for review;
and (c) commence and implement such works in accordance with said ESIA,
Partial ESIA or ESMP as shall have been accepted by the Bank as being
satisfactory.
2. 
The Borrower shall, and cause each Sub-borrower to:
(a) 
take all necessary actions to minimize, to the extent possible, any
involuntary loss by persons of shelter, productive assets, or access to
productive assets or income or means of livelihood, temporarily or
permanently, in carrying out the Project; and
(b) 
for this purpose, whenever implementation of Project activities would give
rise to Displaced Persons with respect to civil works related to said
activities: (i) prepare, and cause to be prepared, a RAP in accordance with
the principles and procedures set forth in the LARPF; (ii) thereafter,
provide said RAP to the Bank for review; and (iii) commence and
implement such works in accordance with the RAP as shall have been
accepted by the Bank as being satisfactory.
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the ESMF, LARPF, ESIAs, Partial ESIAs, ESMPs
and RAPs and any provision thereof, shall not be amended, suspended, abrogated,
terminated or waived or permitted to be amended, suspended, abrogated,
terminated or waived, except with the prior written consent of the Bank.
4. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
maintain, and cause each Sub-borrower to maintain, policies and
procedures adequate to enable them to monitor and evaluate, in accordance
with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, the implementation of any of the
ESMF, LARPF, ESIAs, Partial ESIAs, ESMPs and RAPs and the
achievement of the objectives of said frameworks and plans; and
(b) 
include in the Project Report, which is to be prepared under Section II.A
paragraph I of this Schedule, the results of the monitoring and evaluation
-8-
activities with respect to the frameworks and plans referred to in sub-
paragraph (a) above.
E. 
Technical Assistance under Part A of the Project
1 .
For purposes of carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall select
municipalities and utilities in accordance with eligibility criteria and procedures
acceptable to the Bank and as set out in the Operational Manual.
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the terms of reference of any consultancy in respect
to Part A of the Project shall be satisfactory to the Bank following its review
thereof and, to that end, such terms of reference shall duly incorporate the
requirements of the Bank's Safeguards Policies then in force, as applied to the
advice conveyed through such technical assistance.
F. 
Sub-projects under Part B of the Project
1 .
With respect to Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall make Sub-loans to Sub-
borrowers for the carrying out of Sub-projects, all in accordance with eligibility
criteria and procedures acceptable to the Bank and as set out in the Operational
Manual.
2. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
make each Sub-loan under a Sub-loan Agreement with the respective Sub-
borrower on terms and conditions set forth in the Operational Manual,
including without limitation, the terms and conditions set forth in Annex
1 to this Schedule;
(b) 
obtain, through the Sub-loan Agreement, rights adequate to protect its
interests and those of the Bank and the Guarantor, including the right to
suspend or terminate the right of a Sub-borrower to use the proceeds of the
Sub-loan, or to obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount of the Sub-
loan then withdrawn, upon the Sub-borrower's failure to perform any of
its obligations under the Sub-loan Agreement;
(c) 
obtain the Bank's approval of the Sub-loan and its related Sub-project
prior to execution of a Sub-loan Agreement with a Sub-borrower
concerned; and
(d) 
exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each Sub-loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower, the
Guarantor and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive any Sub-loan Agreement or any of its
provisions.
-9-
3. 
The Borrower shall, except as the Bank and the Borrower may otherwise agree:
(a) open and thereafter maintain on its books, in accordance with its normal
financial practices and on conditions acceptable to the Bank, and ensures that the
Sub-Borrowers open 
separate escrow accounts to which it shall credit each
payment of interest or other charges on, or repayment of principal payments under,
any Sub-loan; and (b) utilize all amounts so credited to said separate escrow
account to meet the Borrower's payment or repayment obligations to the Bank
under this Agreement, without prejudice to the Borrower's obligation to make all
such payments and repayments to the Bank even if the amounts in said escrow
account are insufficient to cover such obligations.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1 .
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to
the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by
such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system in accordance with
the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45)
days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for
the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have:
(a) 
the Financial Statements for the Project audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of
the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the
Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such
period; and
(b) 
its entity financial statements audited in accordance with standards set
forth in Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of such
entity financial statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the
Borrower and be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after
the end of such period.
-10-
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan:
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set
forth in Annex 2 to this Schedule 2;
(b) 
Shopping; and
(c) 
Direct Contracting.
-11-
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan:
(a) 
Least Cost Selection;
(b) 
Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications;
(c) 
Single-source Selection of consulting firms;
(d) 
Procedures set forth in Section V of the Consultant Guidelines for the
Selection of Individual Consultants; and
(e) 
Single-source procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised
from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant
to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
-12-
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
Category 
(expressed in Euro) 
financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non-
consulting services, and 
120,897,000 
100%
consultants' services for
Part B of the Project
(2) Front-end Fee 
303,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(3) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar 
Section 2.08(c) of this
premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
11L2000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is July 31, 2024.
-13-
ANNEX 1
to
SCHEDULE 2
For the purposes of Section I.F.2 of this Schedule 2, the terms and conditions of
Sub-Loans made available to Sub-borrowers shall be those set forth below.
TERMS
1. 
The principal amount to be relent out of the proceeds of the Loan to a Sub-borrower
under its respective Sub-loan Agreement shall be denominated in Euro.
CONDITIONS
2. 
When presenting a Sub-loan to the Bank for approval, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank an application, in form acceptable to the Bank, together with:
(a) 
a description of the Sub-borrower and an appraisal of the Sub-project,
including a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan;
(b) 
evidence of compliance with the Operational Manual and specifically with
the environmental review and land acquisition procedures set forth in the
Operational Manual;
(c) 
evidence of compliance with Sub-loan evaluation criteria adopted by the
Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and
(d) 
such other information as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably
request.
3. 
Sub-loans shall be made to the Sub-borrowers which each shall have established
and maintain during the duration of its respective Sub-loan, to the satisfaction of
the Borrower that:
(a) 
it has no overdue payments to the Guarantor's Undersecretariat of
Treasury; and
(b) 
it has a satisfactory financial structure and the organization, management,
staff and financial and other resources required for the efficient carrying
out of its operations, including the carrying out of the Sub-project.
4. 
The Sub-loans shall be made for Sub-projects which are each determined, on the
basis of an appraisal carried out in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Bank set forth in the Operational Manual, to:
-14-
(a) 
be 
technically 
feasible, 
economically, 
financially 
viable 
and
environmentally beneficial;
(b) 
support infrastructure investments, including in the public transport, water
and sanitation, solid waste management, and energy sectors;
(c) 
be in compliance with the ESMF and LARPF; and
(d) 
be in compliance with the requirements pertaining to environmental
protection applicable under the laws and regulations of the Guarantor and
the environmental review and land acquisition procedures set forth in the
Operational Manual.
5. 
Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, through Sub-
loan Agreements with the Sub-borrowers, rights adequate to protect its interests
and those of the Bank and the Guarantor, including the right to require the Sub-
borrower to:
(a) 
carry out its Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with sound technical, economic, financial, managerial,
environmental and social standards and practices satisfactory to the Bank,
including in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines applicable to recipients of loan proceeds other than the
Borrower;
(b) 
provide, promptly as needed, the resources required for the purpose;
(c) 
procure the goods, works and services to be financed out of the Sub-loan
in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement; and
(d) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the progress
of the Sub-project and the achievement of its objectives;
(e) 
comply with environmental review and land acquisition procedures set
forth in the ESMF and LARPF respectively and:
(i) 
with respect to civil works under its Sub-project, to: (A) prepare
an ESIA, Partial ESIA or ESMP, as the case may be, in accordance
with the principles and procedures set forth in the ESMF;
(B) thereafter, provide said ESIA, Partial ESIA or ESMP to the
Bank for review; and (C) commence and implement such works
in accordance with the ESIA, Partial ESIA or ESMP as shall have
been accepted by the Bank as being satisfactory;
-15-
(ii) 
(A) take all necessary actions to minimize to the extent possible
any involuntary loss by persons of shelter, productive assets or
access to productive assets or income or means of livelihood,
temporarily or permanently in carrying out the Project; and (B) for
this purpose, whenever implementation of Project activities would
give rise to Displaced Persons, with respect to civil works related
to said activities: (I) prepare, and cause to be prepared, a RAP in
accordance with the principles and procedures set forth in the
LARPF; (II) thereafter, provide said RAP to the Bank for review;
and (III) commence and implement such works in accordance
with the RAP as shall have been accepted by the Bank as being
satisfactory; and
(iii) 
ensure that the ESMF, LARPF, ESIAs, Partial ESIAs, ESMPs and
RAPs and any provision thereof, shall not be amended, suspended,
abrogated, terminated or waived, except with the prior written
consent of the Bank.
(f) 
(i) maintain a financial management system and prepare financial
statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards
acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations,
resources and expenditures related to the Sub-project; and (ii) at the
Bank's or the Borrower's request, have such financial statements audited
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, and
promptly furnish the statements as so audited to the Borrower and the
Bank;
(g) 
enable the Borrower and the Bank to inspect the Sub-project, its operation
and any relevant records and documents; and
(h) 
prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such information as
the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably request relating to the
foregoing.
-16-
Annex 2
to
SCHEDULE 2
Mandatory Provisions for Procurement under Bank-Financed Contracts
Subject to National Competitive Bidding
The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding shall be those set forth in
the Public Procurement Law of the Guarantor (Law No. 4734), as amended from time to
time, with the latest amendment dated February 26, 2016 (the "PPL") notwithstanding
anything to the contrary in the Guarantor's Law on Public Procurement Contracts (Law
No. 4735), as amended from time to time, with the latest amendment dated April 23, 2015,
and subject to the following provisions:
A. 
Eligibility
The eligibility of bidders shall be as defined under Section I of the Procurement
Guidelines; accordingly, no bidder or potential bidder shall be declared ineligible for
contracts financed by the Bank for reasons other than those provided in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines.
Bidding shall not be restricted to domestic bidders. No restrictions in respect of
eligibility to participate in bidding for contracts shall be placed on the basis of nationality
of the bidder and/or the origin of goods other than those set forth in paragraph 1.10 of the
Procurement Guidelines. No restriction of any kind shall be applied to foreign bidders who
wish to submit a bid.
Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms, and foreign bidders shall not
be required to be registered with local authorities as a prerequisite for submitting bids.
B. 
Procedures
(i) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in the Guarantor's official gazette, or
in at least one widely circulated national daily newspaper, or in an
electronic portal of free access allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days for
the preparation and submission of bids.
(ii) 
The sale and/or issuance of bidding documents shall not be restricted only
to entities invited by the procuring entity.
(iii) 
Prequalification procedures acceptable to the Bank shall be used for large,
complex and/or specialized projects.
-17-
C. 
Assessment of Bidders' Qualifications
In the procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services, where pre-
qualification is not used, the qualifications of the bidder who is recommended for award of
contract shall be assessed by post-qualification, applying minimum experience, technical
and financial requirements which shall be explicitly stated in the bidding documents and
which shall be determined by a 'pass/fail' method, not through use of a merit point system.
D. 
Participation by Government-owned Enterprises
Government-owned enterprises in the Republic of Turkey shall be eligible to
participate in bidding only if they can establish that they are legally and financially
autonomous, operate under commercial law and are not a dependent agency of the
Borrower. Furthermore, they will be subject to the same bid and performance security
requirements as other bidders.
E. 
Participation by Joint Ventures
Participation shall be allowed from joint ventures on the condition that such joint
venture partners will be jointly and severally liable under the contract.
F. 
Bidding Documents
Procuring entities shall use the Bank's sample National Competitive Bidding
documents for Europe and Central Asia Region for goods and works in a manner
acceptable to the Bank, and shall draft prequalification documents (where applicable),
contracts and conditions of contract, acceptable to the Bank.
G. 
Bid Evaluation
(i) 
Evaluation criteria other than price shall be quantified in monetary terms.
(ii) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the monetarily-
quantifiable criteria declared in the bidding documents and a merit point
system shall not be used.
(iii) 
An extension of bid validity, if justified by exceptional circumstances,
may be requested in writing from all bidders before the bid validity
expiration date and shall be allowed once only for the minimum period
required to complete the evaluation or award a contract, but not more than
thirty (30) days. No further extensions shall be requested without the prior
approval of the Bank.
-18-
(iv) 
Contracts shall be awarded to qualified bidders having submitted the
lowest evaluated substantially responsive bid, and no negotiation as to the
price or substance of the bid shall take place.
(v) 
No preference shall apply under National Competitive Bidding.
H. 
Price Adiustment
Civil works contracts of long duration (i.e. more than eighteen (18) months) shall
contain an appropriate price adjustment clause, acceptable to the Bank.
I. 
Reiection of All Bids
All bids (or the sole bid if only one bid is received) shall not be rejected, the
procurement process shall not be cancelled, and new bids shall not be solicited without the
Bank's prior written concurrence. No bids shall be rejected solely because they fall below
or exceed the estimated or reference price.
J. 
Securities
Bid securities should not exceed 3% (three percent) of the estimated cost of the
contract; performance securities should not exceed more than 10% (ten percent) of the cost
of the contract. No advance payments shall be made to the suppliers without a suitable
advance payment security. The wording of all such securities shall be included in the
bidding documents and shall be acceptable to the Bank. Bidders shall be given at least
twenty-eight (28) days from the receipt of notification of contract award to submit
performance securities, and bid securities shall remain valid for such period.
K. 
Fraud and Corruption
Each bidding document and contract financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
include provisions on matters pertaining to fraud and corruption set forth in paragraph 1.16
of the Procurement Guidelines. The Bank will sanction a firm or an individual, at any time,
in accordance with prevailing Bank sanctions procedures.
L. 
Audit Rights
In accordance with paragraph 1.16(e) of the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding
document and contract financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall provide that: (i) the
bidders, suppliers and contractors, and their subcontractors, agents, personnel, consultants,
service providers, or suppliers shall permit the Bank, at its request, to inspect their accounts
and records relating to the bid submission and performance of the contract, and to have
said accounts and records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank; and (ii) acts intended
to materially impede the exercise of the Bank's audit rights may amount to an obstructive
practice as defined in paragraph 1.16(a)(v) of the Procurement Guidelines.
-19-
M. 
Debarment
The Bank may recognize, if requested by the Guarantor, exclusion from
participation as a result of debarment under the national system, provided that the
debarment is for offenses involving fraud, corruption or similar misconduct, and further
provided that the Bank confirms that the particular debarment procedure afforded due
process and the debarment decision is final.
-20-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a
Percentage)
On each March 15 and September 15
Beginning March 15, 2022 
2%
through September 15, 2046
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
-21-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
-22-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Bank's Safeguards Policies" means the Bank's operational policies and
procedures, set forth in the Bank's operational manual and identified as OP/BP
4.01, 4.04, 4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37, 7.50 and 7.60, as said manual is
published under www. World Bank.org/opmanual.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
4. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
5. 
"Displaced Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of the
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts
caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in (i) relocation or loss of
shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or
means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to another location;
or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected
areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such persons; and a
"Displaced Person" means any of such Displaced Persons.
6. 
"Environmental and Social Impact Assessment" or "ESIA" means a site-specific
environmental and social impact assessment, prepared in accordance with the
ESMF and the provisions of Section I.D. 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
acceptable to the Bank, and providing details of the specific actions, measures and
policies designed to facilitate the achievement of the objective of the ESMF,
7. 
"Partial Environmental and Social Impact Assessment" or "Partial ESIA" means a
site-specific partial ESIA, prepared in accordance with the ESMF and the
provisions of Section I.D. I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and acceptable to the
Bank, and giving details the specific actions, measures and policies designed to
facilitate the achievement of the objective of the ESMF.
8. 
"Environmental and Social Management Plan" or "ESMP" means a site-specific
environmental management plan, prepared in accordance with the ESMF and the
provisions of Section I.D. I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and acceptable to the
-23-
Bank, and giving details the specific actions, measures and policies designed to
facilitate the achievement of the objective of the ESMF.
9. 
"ESMF" means the Environmental and Social Management Framework prepared
by the Borrower and disclosed by the Borrower on its website on March 28, 2016,
and in the Bank's Infoshop on March 29, 2016, which framework sets forth, inter
alia, policies and procedures for: screening (including impact on physical cultural
resources, natural habitats and dam safety) of proposed Project activities;
preparation of environmental assessment and environment management plans
therefor; consultation and disclosure and monitoring and reporting during the
implementation of the Project, as said framework may be amended from time to
time with the prior concurrence of the Bank.
10. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
11. 
"LARPF" means the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework
prepared by the Borrower and disclosed in the Borrower's website on March 28,
2016, and the Bank's Infoshop on March 28, 2016, which framework sets out the
policies and procedures for land acquisition, resettlement, compensation and
rehabilitation of Displaced Persons, preparation of resettlement action plans
therefor, consultation, disclosure, grievance redress, and monitoring and reporting
during Project implementation, as said framework may be revised from time to
time with the prior agreement of the Bank.
12. 
"Operational Manual" and "OM" mean the manual referred to in Section 4.01 of
this Agreement and Section I.B. 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, setting out the
policies and procedures for implementation of the Project.
13. 
"PMU" means the project management unit of the Borrower, established on April
29, 2005, and confirmed by a decision of the Board of Directors of the Borrower
on January 25, 2006, or any successor to such unit.
14. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
15. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
November 9, 2016, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with said paragraph.
16. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" and RAP" mean a site-specific resettlement action
plan relating to land acquisition and/or resettlement or economic displacement of
-24-
Displaced Persons, as the case may be, prepared in accordance with the LARPF
and the provisions of Section I.D.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and acceptable
to the Bank; and "Resettlement Action Plans" and "RAPs" mean, collectively, all
such RAPs.
17. 
"Sub-borrower" means a municipality or utility, which satisfies the appropriate
criteria as set out in the Operational Manual and in paragraph 4 of Annex 1 to
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, to which the Borrower proposes to make or has
made a Sub-loan.
18. 
"Sub-loan" means a loan made, or proposed to be made by the Borrower, out of
the proceeds of the Loan for purposes of financing all or a portion of the
expenditures incurred by a Sub-borrower for goods, works, non-consulting
services and consultants' services under a Sub-Project.
19. 
"Sub-loan Agreement" means an agreement entered or to be entered into between
the Borrower and a Sub-borrower pursuant and referred to in Section I.F.2 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and paragraph 5 of Annex 1 to Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules supplemental to the Sub-loan Agreement.
20. 
"Sub-project" means a specific project, selected in accordance with provisions of
paragraph 4 of Annex 1 to Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which is proposed to be
carried out by a Sub-borrower, in whole or in part, through the utilization of the
proceeds of a Sub-loan.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1 .
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan
amount at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement
(the "Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective
dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan
-25-
Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-
annually in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified
in the Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties
to the Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions,
including (but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance,
interest, the Front-end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default
Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a
Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread
Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount
payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
