OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8667-EC
Loan Agreement
(Transformation of the Tertiary Technical and Technological Institutes Project - Proyecto
de Reconversi6n de la Educaci6n Ticnica y Tecnol6gica Superior Ptblica)
between
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
/ 
.- 20161
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
m 
/ 
, 
201( 
between the REPUBLIC OF
ECUADOR ("Borrower"), through its Ministry of Finance, and the INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, through its Ministry of Finance, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the amount of ninety million and five
hundred thousand Dollars ($90,500,000), as such amount may be converted from time to
time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of
this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower, through its Ministry of Finance, may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in
accordance with Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower, through its Ministry of Finance, shall be equal
to one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the
Front-end Fee not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower, through its Ministry of Finance, shall
be equal to one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower, through its Ministry of Finance, for each Interest
Period shall be at a rate equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed
Spread; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower, through its Ministry of Finance, during the
Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment
-2-
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall
instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest
rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the
Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall: (i) cause SECOB to carry out Part 1 (a) of the Project with the assistance
of SENESCYT; (ii) cause INEC to carry out Part 3 (b) (ii) of the Project; (iii) carry out
Parts 1 (b), 2 and 3 (a), (b) (i), (c) and (d) of the Project through SENESCYT, all in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project
is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The SECOB Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower, through
SENESCYT, and SECOB in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
-3-
(b) 
The INEC Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower, through
SENESCYT, and INEC, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
(c) 
The pertinent administrative act (Acuerdo Ministerial) approving the Operational
Manual has been issued.
4.02. 
The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following:
(a) 
The SECOB Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and
SECOB and is legally binding upon the Borrower and SECOB in accordance with
its terms.
(b) 
The INEC Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and
INEC and is legally binding upon the Borrower and INEC in accordance with its
terms.
4.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Avenida 10 de Agosto y Jorge Washington
Quito, Ecuador
Facsimile: 
(5932) 2503-111
2558-232
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at Ae 
rlc-/@4 
-4/J
1fera' 
e' 
as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
B/
Authorized Representative
Name: 
0 A(o x-rif (V 
ZZ0S
Title: 
ASS/,b1 0
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By 
__ 
_ 
_
Authorized Representative
Name: 
?'')(&6
Title: 
i5~ 
-~?'
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are: to increase enrollment and persistence in public technical
and technological programs designed and implemented in collaboration with Employers, and to
strengthen the institutional management of Tertiary Technical and Technological Education.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. Optimizing and upgrading the supply in Targeted Provinces.
(a) 
Provisions of support to the Targeted Provinces for: (i) the construction of new
ISTs; (ii) the rehabilitation, expansion and/or completion of existing ISTs; (iii) the
supervision of civil works under (i) and (ii) herein; (iv) the acquisition of
laboratories and information and communication technologies equipment and
furniture; and (v) the carry out of technical and feasibility studies for the works
mentioned in (i) and (ii) herein (other than for the works located in the provinces of
Bolivar, El Oro and Sucumbios).
(b) 
Preparation and consolidation of individual IST Transformation Plans for all
Targeted Provinces.
Part 2. Improving program relevance, quality of teaching and IST management capacity.
(a) 
Provision of support to SENESCYT for: (i) the design of new TTTE programs
according to labor market demand; and (ii) the review of the process of
collaboration with the Employers in designing the programs mentioned in (i)
herein.
(b) 
Provision of support for: (i) the design and carrying out of training programs,
including training programs for management staff (rectors, vice-rectors, academic
coordinators), teachers and tutors of dual programs of ISTs; and (ii) the design of
the selection process and teacher career pathway.
(c) 
Provision of support for the development of the administrative and academic
management system of ISTs.
Part 3. Strengthening mechanisms for institutional coordination, boosting demand and
management, monitoring and evaluation of the Project.
(a) 
Provision of support to SENESCYT for: (i) strengthening of institutional
arrangements for public-private association, namely between SENESCYT and
Employers' Associations; and (ii) strengthening engagement between public and
private ISTs.
(b) 
Provision of support for upgrading the methodology to estimate the Employers'
demand by types of skills and TTTE's programs, through: (i) the design of a
methodology for estimating the demand by SENESCYT through surveys carried
-6-
out in collaboration with Employers; and (ii) the evaluation of existing
administrative data to estimate future Employer's demand, and if necessary,
include a module for TTE in INEC's surveys of employment to complement the
existing data.
(c) 
Provision of support for: (i) boosting the demand of TTTE through the design and
carrying out of media campaigns among students of secondary education on the
advantages of YTE, in collaboration with MINEDUC; and (ii) the design and
carrying out of a program for raising awareness among students from the most
vulnerable part of the population on scholarships to finance TTE studies.
(d) 
Provision of support for: (i) the technical and administrative management of the
Project, including the hiring of financial management, procurement, monitoring
and evaluation, and social management specialist and other technical temporary
staff needed during Project implementation; (ii) the carrying out of Project external
audits; (iii) the carrying out of YTE research studies on: (A) the composition of
the existing offer of YTE by type of program; (B) the academic curriculum;
(C) teachers' recruitment, incentives and skills; (D) students' education profile,
socio-economic background, and financial assistance and scholarships, with a
particular emphasis on gender disparities and students from the most vulnerable
part of the population; (E) institutional management practices; and (F) engagement
with the Employers; and (iv) the carrying out of research studies on the impact of
institutional improvement of educational outcomes.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arran2ements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
For purposes of Project implementation the Borrower, through SENESCYT, shall:
(i) 
operate and maintain, until the completion of the Project, the Project Management
Unit (PMU), comprised of key staff with functions, experience, and qualifications
acceptable to the Bank, as described in the Operational Manual, including a Project
coordinator, and specialists for the monitoring and evaluation, procurement,
financial management, social, environmental and infrastructure aspects under the
Project, and responsible for the management, coordination, supervision,
monitoring and evaluation of the Project activities;
(ii) 
cause SECOB and INEC to operate maintain, until the completion of the Project,
a separate Project team comprised of key staff with functions, experience, and
qualifications acceptable to the Bank, as described in the Operational Manual,
including an infrastructure specialist for SECOB and a technical coordinator, and
procurement and financial management specialists for INEC, and responsible for
the management, coordination, supervision, monitoring and evaluation of the
Project activities under their responsibility;
(iii) 
not later than thirty (30) days after the Effective Date, ensure that the Project
coordinator, procurement and financial management specialists mentioned in (i)
above, and the technical coordinator and, procurement and financial management
specialists mentioned in (ii) above, in respect of within SECOB and INEC,
respectively, have been assigned to work full time in said entities;
(iv) 
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date, ensure that the monitoring
and evaluation, social, environmental and infrastructure specialists mentioned in
(i) above, are assigned to work full time within the PMU; and
(v) 
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date, ensure that a complementary
financial management system has been established in SENESCYT and is
operational, all in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
B. 
SECOB Agreement
1 .
To facilitate the carrying out Part I (a) of the Project, the Borrower, through SENESCYT
shall enter into an agreement with SECOB (the SECOB Agreement) under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank including, inter alia: (a) the Borrower's obligation to
transfer, on a non-reimbursable basis, part of the proceeds of the Loan to SECOB ; and (b)
SECOB's obligations to carry out the activities of Part 1 (a) of the Project in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Schedule, including the provisions of Sections I.D, I.E,
I.F and III of this Agreement.
-8-
2. 
The Borrower, through SENESCYT, shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations
under the SECOB Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail
to enforce the SECOB Agreement or any of its provisions.
C. 
INEC Agreement
1 .
To facilitate the carrying out Part 3 (b) of the Project, the Borrower, through SENESCYT
shall enter into an agreement with INEC (the INEC Agreement) under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank including, inter alia: (a) the Borrower's obligation to transfer, on a
non-reimbursable basis, part of the proceeds of the Loan to INEC; and (b) INEC's
obligations to carry out the activities of Part 3 (b) (ii) of the Project in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Schedule, including the provisions of Sections I.D, I.E, I.F and
Section III of this Agreement.
2. 
The Borrower, through SENESCYT, shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations
under the INEC Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and
the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce
the INEC Agreement or any of its provisions.
D. 
Operational Manual
1 .
The Borrower shall adopt and carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of a
manual (the Operational Manual), acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia:
(a) a detailed description of Project activities and institutional arrangements for the Project;
(b) the Project administrative, budgeting, accounting, auditing, reporting, financial
(including cash flow aspects), procurement and disbursement procedures; (c) the
monitoring indicators for the Project; (d) the institutional and administrative mechanisms
established to ensure inter-institutional coordination; (e) the regulations concerning the
design and micro-planning for IST consolidation; (f) the Gender Plan; and (g) the ESMF,
the IPPF and the RPF, the Existing EMPs, the Existing IPPs and the Existing SMPs.
2. 
Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower shall
not abrogate, amend, suspend, waive or fail to enforce the Operational Manual or any
provision thereof.
3. 
In case of a conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and those in this
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
E. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
-9-
F. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower, through SENESCYT, shall, and shall cause SECOB and INEC to,
implement the respective Parts of the Project under their responsibility in accordance with
the Existing EMPs, the Existing SMPs, the Existing IPPs, the ESMF, the IPPF, the Gender
Plan and the RPF, as applicable.
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure, and/or cause the SECOB and INEC to ensure, that the terms
of reference for any consultancy in respect of any Project activity shall be satisfactory to
the Bank following its review thereof and, to that end, such terms of reference shall duly
incorporate the requirements of the applicable Bank Safeguards Policies, as applied to the
advice conveyed through such technical assistance.
Environmental and Social Management
3. 
Without limitation to the provisions in paragraph 1 of this Section, the Borrower, through
SENESCYT, shall cause SECOB to, prior to carrying out any works under Part 1 (a) of the
Project (other than for those works located in the Targeted Provinces of Bolivar, El Oro
and Sucumbios):
(i) 
carry out a site-specific environmental impact and social assessments in respect of
each said works, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) 
prepare, consult and disclose respective site-specific EMP and, if applicable the
SMP, all in a manner acceptable to the Bank and in accordance with the provisions
set forth in the ESMF;
(iii) 
before issuing bidding documents for any works contract, prepare and submit to
the Bank for its approval: (a) the proposed design and site for the works and the
relevant EMP, and if applicable, the SMP, all in form and substance satisfactory
to the Bank; and (b) the draft contract for such works to ensure that the provisions
of the relevant EMP, and if applicable, the relevant SMP, are adequately included
in the related contract; and
(iv) 
thereafter, implement the relevant EMP and SMP in accordance with their terms,
all in a manner acceptable to the Bank and as set forth in the ESMF.
Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework (IPPF)
4. 
If required by the IPPF, the Borrower, through SENESCYT, shall:
(i) 
prior to carrying out any particular works under Part 1 (a) of the Project (other than
for those works located in the Targeted Provinces of Bolivar, Tungurahua and
Sucumbios), prepare, consult and disclose the relevant IPP in a manner acceptable
to the Bank and in accordance with the provisions set forth in the IPPF; and
(ii) 
immediately thereafter, implement the relevant IPP in accordance with its terms,
and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
-10-
Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF)
5. 
If any works under Part 1 (a) of the Project involve Involuntary Resettlement, the Borrower
shall, prior to the carrying out of the pertinent works:
(i) 
prepare a RAP for the site where pre-screening has identified resettlement impacts,
as defined by the RPF;
(ii) 
consult and disclose the relevant RAPs, including publicizing the availability of
the grievance redress mechanism referred to in paragraph 6 of this Section, and
take all measures necessary to implement the determinations made under the
grievance redress mechanism, in a manner acceptable to the Bank; and
(iii) 
implement the relevant RAP in accordance with its terms, and in a manner
acceptable to the Bank.
Grievance Redress Mechanism
6. 
The Borrower, through SENESCYT shall, not later than ninety (90) days after the Effective
Date, develop, in form and substance acceptable to the Bank, and following the guidelines
set forth in the Operational Manual, a grievance redress mechanism that encompasses
transparent, timely and fair procedures, for the purposes of ensuring that all complaints
received from Project beneficiaries and other interested stakeholders related to any activity
under the Project are properly and timely addressed to the satisfaction of the Bank.
Section II. 
Project Monitorin2 Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower, through SENESCYT, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project
and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the
General Conditions and on the basis of indicators set forth in the Operational Manual. Each
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to
the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such
report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1 .
The Borrower, through SENESCYT, shall, and shall cause SECOB and INEC to maintain
or cause to be maintained a financial management system in accordance with the provisions
of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower, through SENESCYT, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than
forty five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial
reports for the Project covering the pertinent calendar semester, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through SENESCYT, shall have the Financial Statements audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit
-11-
of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower, or
any other period acceptable to the Bank. The audited Financial Statements for each such
period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such
period.
4. 
For purposes of Section II.B. of this Schedule, the Borrower, through SENESCYT, shall,
not later than 120 days before the end of: (i) the first calendar year of Project
implementation or (ii) the period subject to audits referred to in said Section, (whichever
occurs first), submit to the Bank for its no-objection the terms of reference for the hiring
of an independent auditor for the duration of the Project.
Section III. 
Procurement
All goods, works, non-consulting services and consulting services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in the Procurement Regulations and the provisions
of the Procurement Plan.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank Disbursement
Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as
made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures
in each Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in USD) 
(exclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works and consulting 
100%
services under Part 1 in respect 
76,400,000
of SENESCYT and SECOB
(2) Goods, consulting services 
11,200,000 
100%
and training under Parts 2 and
3 (a), (b) (i); (c) and (d) of the
Project in respect of SENESCYT
(3) Goods, consulting services, 
2,900,000 
100%
Survey Costs and Training under
Part 3 (b) (ii) of the Project in
respect of INEC
TOTAL AMOUNT 
1- 
90,500,000
-12-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-
end Fee; or
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $18,000,000 may be made for payments
made prior to this date but on or after October 28, 2016, for Eligible Expenditures,
under all Categories.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2021.
Section V 
Other Undertakin2s
1. 
Without limitation to the provision of Section 5.03 of the General Conditions, the
Borrower shall provide, promptly, as needed, the counterpart funds required for Project
implementation estimated in the amount of approximately twelve million Dollars
(US$12,000,000), as further detailed in the Operational Manual and distributed in
accordance with the table set forth in the Annex to this Agreement, as such counterpart
fund amounts reflected in said table may be revised from time to time by mutual
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, and reflected in a written notice from the
Bank to the Borrower, which notice shall constitute an amendment to this Agreement.
2. 
The Borrower, through SENESCYT, shall, not later than eighteen (18) months after the
Effective Date, select and contract, pursuant to the provisions of Section III of this
Schedule, an entity, independent from the Borrower with experience and qualifications
acceptable to the Bank, and in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
for purposes of carrying out the technical reviews referred to in Part 2 (a) (ii) of the Project.
-13-
ANNEX
Project Cost Composition by Parts of the Project (Component/Sub-component) and by Source of Financing
Part of the Project (including Project 
Borrower's% 
%
Bank Loan 
counterpart 
Total cost
expenditures) 
fnsBank 
Borrower
funds
Part 1. Optimizing and upgrading the supply in
targeted Provinces: Consulting services
(feasibility and technical studies, and supervision);
works and goods (equipment and furniture). 
76,400,000 
9,932,000 
86,332,000 
88% 
12%
Part 2. Improving program relevance, quality of
teaching and IST management capacity 
4,985,000 
683,050 
5,668,050 
88% 
12%
2.(a) Consulting services (design of TTTE programs
and review process of collaboration with
Employers) 
1,685,000 
230,880 
1,915,880 
88% 
12%
2.(b) Consulting services (design of training
programs and training for teachers and management
staff, and design selection process and teacher
career pathway) 
1,850,000 
253,489 
2,103,489 
88% 
12%
2.(c) Consulting services (design and
implementation of an academic and administrative
management system) 
1,450,000 
198,681 
1,648,681 
88% 
12%
Part 3. Strengthening Mechanisms for
Institutional Coordination, Boosting Demand
and Management, Monitoring and Evaluation of
the Project 
9,115,000 
1,349,950 
10,464,950 
87% 
13%
3.(a) Consulting services (strengthening
institutional partnerships with Employers'
Associations and private and public ISTs) 
730,000 
108,114 
838,114 
87% 
13%
3.(b) Consulting services, Survey Costs, goods, and
Training (upgrading the methodology for estimation
of the labor market demand) 
2,925,000 
433,198 
3,358,198 
87% 
13%
3.(c) Consulting Services and Training
(communication campaigns to boost the demand for
TTTE) and design and implementation raising
awareness program 
2,930,000 
433,939 
3,369,939 
87% 
13%
3.(d) Consulting services, goods, Operating Costs
and Training (management, monitoring, Project
audits, research studies and impact evaluation for the
Project) 
2,530,000 
374,698 
2,904,698 
87% 
13%
TOTAL 
90,500,000 
11,965,000 
102,465,000 
88% 
12%
-14-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying:
(a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment
Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary,
to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Repayment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
Mayl5, 2034 
16.9802%
November 15, 2034 
14.1005%
May 15, 2035 
11.7092%
November 15, 2035 
9.7234%
May 15, 2036 
8.0744%
November 15, 2036 
6.7051%
May 15, 2037 
5.5679%
November 15, 2037 
4.6237%
May 15, 2038 
3.8395%
November 15, 2038 
3.1884%
May 15, 2039 
2.6477%
November 15, 2039 
2.1986%
May 15, 2040 
1.8258%
November 15, 2040 
1.5161%
May 15, 2041 
1.2590%
November 15, 2041 
1.0455%
May 15, 2042 
0.8682%
November 15, 2042 
0.7210%
May 15, 2043 
0.5987%
November 15, 2043 
0.4972%
May 15, 2044 
0.4128%
November 15, 2044 
0.3428%
May 15, 2045 
0.2847%
November 15, 2045 
0.2364%
May 15, 2046 
0.1963%
November 15, 2046 
0.1630%
-15-
Repayment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
May 15, 2047 
0.1354%
November 15, 2047 
0.1124%
May 15, 2048 
0.0934%
November 15, 2048 
0.0775%
May 15, 2049 
0.0644%
November 15, 2049 
0.0535%
May 15, 2050 
0.0444%
November 15, 2050 
0.0369%
May 15, 2051 
0.0306%
November 15, 2051 
0.0254%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as
of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.
-16-
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating
to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
-17-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated
October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
2. 
"Bank Safeguards Policies" means the Bank's operational policies and procedures set forth
in the Bank's Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04, 4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.36,
4.37, 7.50 and 7.60 as said manual is published under.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
4. 
"Employers" means any private or public sector entity that is engaged in activities,
acceptable to the Bank that would be able to employ graduates from ISTs.
5. 
"Employers' Associations" means a group of private employers that represent the interests
of a specific economic sector.
6. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the Borrower's
framework dated September 12, 2016, acceptable to the Bank, published and available to
the public on the website www.educacionsuperior.gob.ec, and on the Bank's external
website on September 14, 2016, which contains the environmental protection measures in
respect of the Project, including: (a) measures for chance findings of cultural property; (b)
guidelines for the identification of existing environmental conditions and potential direct
and indirect environmental impacts resulting from the carrying out of the Project; (c)
guidelines for the carrying out of environmental and social assessments and the preparation
and implementation of the corresponding EMP and SMPs when applicable; (d) the
recommendation of mitigation measures for each negative impact identified; (e) measures
for enhancing each identified positive impact, as said framework may be amended from
time to time with the Bank's prior approval.
7. 
"Environmental Management Plan" or "EMP" means any site-specific environmental and
social management plan (other than the Existing EMPs) prepared by the Borrower and
approved by the Bank, for activities under Part 1(a) of the Project, and collectively referred
to as "Environmental Management Plans or EMPs".
8. 
"Existing EMPs" means the environmental management plans, acceptable to the Bank, for
the works under Part 1 (a) of the Project which are located in the Targeted Provinces of
Sucumbios (Lago Agrio), Bolivar (Chimbo), El Oro (Machala), all disclosed by the
Borrower on October 3, 2016 and made available by the Bank on October 3, 2016
(Sucumbios) and October 4, 2016 (El Oro and Bolivar), as said plans may be amended
from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
9. 
"Existing IPPs" means the indigenous peoples plans, acceptable to the Bank, for the works
under Part 1 (a) of the Project located in the Targeted Provinces of Sucumbios, Tungurahua
and Bolivar, all disclosed by the Borrower on August 30, 2016 and made available by the
-18-
Bank on September 2, 2016 (Tungurahua) and on September 6, 2016 (Sucumbios and
Bolivar), as said plans may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
10. 
"Existing SMPs" means the social management plans, acceptable to the Bank, for the
works under Part 1 (a) of the Project located in the Targeted Province of El Oro, Guayas,
Manabi and Pichincha, all disclosed by the Borrower on August 30, 2016 and made
available by the Bank on September 2, 2016 (El Oro, Guayas and Manabi) and on
September 6, 2016 (Pichincha).
11. 
"Gender Plan" means the Borrower's gender plan dated September 2, 2016, acceptable to
the Bank, annexed to the Operational Manual to ensure equality of opportunities for both
women and men under the Project.
12. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
13. 
"Indigenous Peoples' Plan" or "IPP" means any site-specific indigenous peoples' plan
prepared or to be prepared by the Borrower and approved by the Bank, for activities under
Part 1(a) of the Project, as set forth in the IPPF, and collectively referred to as "Indigenous
Peoples' Plans or IPPs", as said plan may be amended from time to time with the agreement
of the Bank.
14. 
"Indigenous Peoples' Planning Framework" or "IPPF" means the Borrower's framework,
dated August 30, 2016, acceptable to the Bank, published and available to the public on
the website www.educacionsuperior.gob.ec and the Bank's external website on September
6, 2016, detailing measures to mitigate any adverse impact on indigenous peoples as a
result of any activity carried out under the Project and to ensure that they benefit from the
Project, including procedures for the preparation and implementation of the pertinent IPPs,
as said framework may be amended from time to time with the Bank's prior approval.
15. 
"INEC" means Instituto Nacional de Estadistica y Census, the Borrower's National
Institute of Statistics, created by the Borrower's Decree No. 323, of April 27, 2076 and
regulated by the Borrower's Decree No. 141, of July 20, 2007.
16. 
"INEC Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.C. 1. of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
17. 
"Involuntary Resettlement" means the impact of an involuntary taking of land under the
Project, which taking causes affected persons to have their: (i) standard of living adversely
affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural
and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily
or permanently; or (iii) access to productive assets adversely affected, temporarily or
permanently; or (iv) business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely
affected, temporarily or permanently.
18. 
"IST" means Instituto Superior T&nico y Tecnol6gico, the Borrower's technical and
technological training institute, a higher education non-profit institution which purpose is
-19-
to: (i) provide TTTE in arts and/or other fields of knowledge; and (ii) carry out research
aimed at technical or technological innovation.
19. 
"IST Transformation Plan" means a comprehensive document prepared by the Borrower
for a particular Targeted Province, which shall include: (i) a description of the current state
of public TTTE in said Targeted Province; (ii) the expected demand for TTTE up to the
year 2022; (iii) a plan for the provincial consolidation of the supply of TTTE, including the
expected mergers and closures of ISTs; (iv) the infrastructure dimensioning of the new
ISTs; (v) the labor demand projections; (vi) the quota allocations by TTTE programs and
(vii) if applicable, the Social Management Plans, the Existing Social Management Plan,
the Existing IPPs and/or the IPPs.
20. 
"MINEDUC" means Ministerio de Educaci6n, the Borrower's Ministry of Education, or
any successor acceptable to the Bank.
21. 
"Operating Costs" means the reasonable incremental operational costs (which would not
have been incurred absent the Project) incurred by the Borrower, through SENESCYT,
related to Project technical and administrative management, monitoring and supervision
required under the Project, including inter alia, remuneration for non-operational and non-
technical staff (excluding the Borrower's civil servants), office equipment, supplies, travel
costs (including accommodations, transportation costs and per diem), printing services,
communication costs, utilities, maintenance of office equipment and facilities, vehicle
operation and maintenance costs, and logistics service.
22. 
"Operational Manual" means the manual referred to in Section I.D of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, as said manual may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the
Bank.
23. 
"PMU" means the PRETyT unit within the Borrower's Subsecretary of Technical and
Technological Training, referred to in Section L.A (i) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
24. 
"PRETyT" means Programa de Reconversidn de la Educacidn Tenica y Tecnol6gica
Superior Publica del Ecuador, the Borrower's Program of Transformation of Tertiary
Technical and Technological Public Education in Ecuador, established pursuant to the
Acuerdo Ministerial No 2013-020 dated March 27, 2013--
25. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated October
13, 2016 and provided for under Section IV of the Procurement Regulations, as the same
may be updated from time to time in agreement with the Bank.
26. 
"Procurement Regulations" means the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for
Borrowers under Investment Project Financing", dated July 1, 2016.
27. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" or "RAP" means any site-specific resettlement action plan to
be prepared by the Borrower and approved by the Bank, for activities under Part 1(a) of
the Project, as set forth in the RPF, and collectively referred to as "Resettlement Action
Plan's or RAPs", as said plan may be amended from time to time with the agreement of
the Bank..
-20-
28. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the document prepared by the
Borrower dated August 30, 2016, published and available to the public on the website
www.educacionsuperior.gob.ec and on the Bank's external website on September 2, 2016
and outlining general implementation procedures, mitigation measures and monitoring
procedures for Involuntary Resettlement under the Project, including the procedures for
the preparation and implementation of RPFs, as said framework may be amended from
time to time with the Bank's prior approval.
29. 
"SECOB" means Servicio de Contrataci6n de Obras, the Borrower's Work Contracting
Service created pursuant to the Borrower's Executive Decree No. 731 of April 19, 2011 as
Instituto de Contratacidn de Obras or ICO, and renamed through Executive Decree No. 49
of August 13, 2013 as SECOB, or its successor acceptable to the Bank.
30. 
"SECOB Agreement" means Convenio de Cooperacidn Inter-Institucional entre
SENESCYT and SECOB, the agreement referred to in Section I.B. 1 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
31. 
"SENESCYT" means Secretaria de Educaci6n Superior, Ciencia y Tecnologia, the
Borrower's Secretary of Higher Education, Science and Technology or any successor
acceptable to the Bank.
32. 
"Social Management Plan" means a specific-site social management plan (other than the
Existing EMP), acceptable to the Bank, to address any social impact in respect of any works
under Part 1 (a) of the Project not involving the presence of indigenous population, as said
plan may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
33. 
"Survey Costs" means the costs incurred by the Borrower in contracting surveyors for
purposes of carrying out the surveys under Part 3 (b) (ii) of the Project, including surveyors
transportation and printing services.
34. 
"Targeted Provinces" means the following provinces of the Borrower: Sucumbios, Bolivar,
El Oro, Guayas, Manabi, Pichincha, y Tungurahua.
35. 
"Tertiary Technical and Technological Education" or "TTTE" means the tertiary (post-
secondary) education provided by ISTs on technical or technological programs in a specific
field of knowledge.
36. 
"Training" means expenditures (other than those for consulting services) incurred by the
Borrower, through SENESCYT, in connection with the carrying out of training, seminars,
and workshops, including the reasonable travel costs (e.g. accommodations, transportation
costs and per diem) of trainees and trainers (if applicable), tuition, catering, rental of
training facilities and equipment, logistics and printing services, as well as training
materials and equipment, and registration fees (up to the amount per registration fee set
forth in the Operational Manual), all under the Project.
-21-
Section H. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually
in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition
of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01
(a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition
of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and
Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
