OFFICIAL
80CUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8627-AZ
Loan Agreement
(Additional Financing for IDP Living Standards and Livelihood Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
',2016
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8627-AZ
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
L2,2016, 
between REPUBLIC
OF 
AZERBAIJAN 
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing
additional financing for activities related to the Project described in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement ("Project"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of sixty six million seven hundred
thousand United States dollars (US$66,700,000), 
as such amount may be
converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with
the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing
the Project.
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided,
that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the
General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower
-2-
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project Implementing
-3-
Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions
and the Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
3.03. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall:
(a) 
maintain, until the completion of the Project, a Project Account in Manat
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, to finance its counterpart
contribution to the expenditures of the Project;
(b) 
deposit into the Project Account the amounts required to cover the
Borrower's counterpart contributions as determined by the Borrower and
the Bank; and
(c) 
ensure that the funds deposited into the Project Account shall be used
exclusively to finance the Borrower's counterpart contributions to the
Project.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that the
Project Implementing Entity's Legislation has been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability
of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
the Project Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Bank and the
Project Implementing Entity;
(b) 
the Subsidiary Agreement has been amended in a manner acceptable to the
Bank; and
(b) 
the Operational Manual has been updated in a manner acceptable to the
Bank.
-4-
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
135 Samed Vurgun Street
Baku AZ1022
Republic of Azerbaijan
Telex: 
Facsimile:
142116 BNKSL 
(944-12) 404-47-20
(944-12) 404-47-21
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at Baku, Republic of Azerbaijan, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN
By:
Authorized Represytative
Name:
Title:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By:
Auth ized Representative
Name: 
S 
-
Title:
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve living conditions and increase the
economic self-reliance of targeted internally displaced persons (IDP).
The Project consist of the following parts:
A. 
Micro-Projects
Provision of works, goods and services for the following activities, including, inter
alia: (1) community mobilization and outreach for micro-project proposal development;
(2) repair or rehabilitation of basic infrastructure (e.g. water supply, power supply, access
roads, drainage systems); and (3) repair or rehabilitation of social infrastructure, such as
schools and community centers.
B. 
Housing Renovation and Social and Economic Infrastructure for IDP
Settlements
1. 
Provision of works, goods and services for the rehabilitation and full scale repair
of IDP collective accommodation centers including improvement of common space areas
(bathrooms, corridors, kitchens, etc.), enhancement of structural features (such as
sewerage, roofing and water systems) as well as improvement of conditions in individual
apartments such as replacement of windows, doors, and electricity to improve the overall
living conditions including safety and efficiency.
2. 
Provision of works, goods and services for the construction and/or rehabilitation
of physical infrastructure in Selected IDP New Settlements, including, inter alia: (a) the
assessment of social and economic infrastructure needs; (b) the carrying out of community
mobilization and outreach activities for prioritization of infrastructure investments; (c) the
reparation, rehabilitation and/or construction of economic infrastructure (e.g. water supply,
power supply, access roads, drainage systems); and (d) the reparation or rehabilitation of
social infrastructure (e.g. schools, community centers).
3. 
Support for the operation and maintenance of investments financed under Part B
of the Project, including through the provision of technical assistance and training to
strengthen operation and maintenance capacity of IDP infrastructure.
C. 
Livelihood Support
1. 
Provision of vocational training and financial and technical support for small
business development to IDP youth.
-7-
2. 
Provision of: (a) technical support and mobilization in selected communities
leading to the establishment of about 200 self-help groups and formulation by such self-
help groups of proposals for income generating activities; and (b) Small Grants to eligible
self-help groups and individual group members with approved proposals for income
generating activities to set up small businesses and micro-enterprises.
3. 
Financing of Micro-credits for IDPs and host community of IDP residents through
eligible credit unions.
4. 
Piloting of integrative economic support in Selected IDP New Settlements through
the carrying out of activities described under paragraphs I to 3 of this Part C of the Project.
D. 
Project Management, Implementation Support and Capacity Building
Provision of goods, consultants' services and Training for the proper management,
implementation, supervision and monitoring and evaluation of the Project including, inter
alia: (a) recruitment of regional staff with skills on infrastructure, citizen engagement,
monitoring and evaluation, safeguards, financial management and procurement; (b)
capacity building of the Project Implementing Entity and associated stakeholders through
adequate training for technical supervision; (c) impact evaluation by an external firm to
improve information on Project results; (d) annual financial audit of the Project accounts;
and (e) public communications activities.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
1. 
All the Borrower's obligations referred to in Section I of Schedule 2 to the Original
Loan Agreement shall apply to the execution of the Project.
2. 
Without limitations upon the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, prior to the
carrying out of any activities to be financed with the proceeds of the Loan, the
Borrower shall and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to: (a) amend the
Subsidiary Agreement, and (b) update the Operational Manual, all for purposes of
this Loan and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that Part B.2 of the Project is carried out in accordance
with the provisions of the RPF.
Section H. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than one month after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45)
days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for
the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. 
Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
-9-
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1 .
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and non-
consulting services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under
which such methods may be used:
Procurement Method
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following additional
provisions:
(i) 
there shall be no eligibility restrictions based on nationality of
bidder;
(ii) 
pre-qualification may be used for simple works procurement
and shall be conducted for large works contracts;
(iii) 
entities in which the State or a State official owns a
shareholding of whatever size shall not be invited to participate
-10-
Procurement Method
in tenders for the Government unless they are and can be shown
to be legally and financially autonomous and they operate
under commercial law;
(iv) 
no national preferences may be applied on the basis of the
origin of products or labor;
(v) 
joint venture partners shall be jointly and severally liable for
their obligations;
(vi) 
no "participation fee" shall be required of bidders for the
purchase of bidding documents. 
The only charge shall be
equivalent to the cost of producing (copying) the bidding
documents;
(vii) 
in the evaluation of bids, bids may not be rejected where they
differ substantially from the estimated prices calculated by the
procuring entity, except where the bid prices exceed the
available budget;
(viii) 
rebidding shall not be carried out without prior approval of the
Bank;
(ix) 
works contracts of more than eighteen (18) months' duration
shall include appropriate price adjustment provisions;
(x) 
prior approval of the Bank shall be required for any
modification in the contract scope and conditions during
implementation; and
(xi) 
standard bidding documents approved by the Bank shall be
used.
(b) 
Shopping
(c) 
Direct Contracting
(d) 
Well-established Private Sector Procurement Methods or Commercial
Practices, as per paragraph 3.13 of the Procurement Guidelines, which
have been found acceptable to the Bank, as specified in the Operational
Manual
(e) 
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 3.19 of the Procurement Guidelines
for Community Participation in Procurement for goods, works and
non-consulting services under Part C of the Project, as specified in the
Operational Manual
-11-
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based
Selection, which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used:
Procurement Method
(a) 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
(b) 
Least-cost Selection
(c) 
Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
(d) 
Single Source Selection
(e) 
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.1 through 5.6 of the Consultant Guidelines
for the Selection of Individual Consultants
(f) 
Well-established Private Sector Procurement Methods or Commercial Practices
as per paragraph 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines which have been found
acceptable to the Bank, as specified in the Operational Manual
(g) 
Quality-based Selection
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised
from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant
to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 below.
-12-
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
financed
(Net of VAT)
(1) Goods, works, non- 
66,533,250 
100%
consulting services,
and consultant
services (including
audits), Small Grants,
Micro-Credits,
Training and
Operating Costs for
the Project (excluding
Part B.1 of the Project)
(2) Front-end Fee 
166,750 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(3) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar 
Section 2.08(c) of this
premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
66,700,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2020.
-13-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning November 15, 2021 
4,17%
through November 15, 2032
On May 15, 2033 
4,09%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
-14-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
-15-
SCHEDULE 4
Amendment to the Original Loan Agreement
The Borrower and Bank hereby agree to amend the Original Loan Agreement as
follows:
(a) 
Schedule 1 is hereby replaced in its entirety by Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
(b) 
The description of Category (1) in the table in Section IV.A.2 to Schedule
2 is hereby replaced in its entirety to read as follows:
"(1) Goods, works, non-consulting services, and consultants'
services for the Project (excluding Part B.2, B.3 and C.4 of the
Project)"
(c) 
The Project closing date is extended until December 31, 2016.
(d) 
The following definition is hereby added to Section I of the Appendix to
read as follows:
""Additional 
Financing Agreement" 
means the agreement
between the Borrower and the Bank for purposes of providing
additional financing for the Project."
(e) 
The following definitions in Section I of the Appendix are hereby amended
to read as follows:
(i) 
""Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
and Grants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011
(revised July 2014)."
(ii) 
""EMPF" 
means 
the 
Environmental 
Management 
Plan
Framework, dated June 23, 2011, and updated on January 5, 2016
setting forth the framework of procedures and measures to
mitigate any adverse impacts to the environment and incorporated
into the Operational Manual."
(iii) 
""General Conditions" means the "International 
Bank for
Reconstruction and Development General Conditions for Loans",
dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in Section
II of this Appendix."
-16-
(iv) 
""Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement
of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers" dated
January 2011 (revised July 2014)."
(v) 
""Small Grants" means grants made or proposed to be made by
the Project Implementing Entity, out of the proceeds of the Loan,
to finance eligible income generating activities under Part C.2 (b)
and C.4 of the Project in accordance with the Project's Operational
Manual."
(vi) 
""Sub-project" means a sub-project for starting or scaling-up of
small business to be carried out by Beneficiaries under Part C.3
and C.4 of the Project, eligible for financing under a Sub-loan in
accordance with the procedures and eligibility criteria referred to
in Section I.A.7 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement as set
forth in the Operations Manual; and the term "Sub-projects"
means, collectively, all such Sub-projects."
(vii) 
""Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in
Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as amended pursuant
to Section 1.2 (a) of Schedule 2 to the Additional Financing
Agreement, pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the
proceeds of the Loan available to the Project Implementing
Entity."
-17-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Beneficiaries" means an eligible individual IDP which has met the eligibility
criteria specified in the Operational Manual, and to which or for whose benefit
a Micro-credit is made or proposed to be made; and the term "Beneficiaries"
means, collectively, all such Beneficiaries.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
4. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
5. 
"EMPF" means the Environmental Management Plan Framework, dated June 23,
2011, and updated on January 5, 2016 setting forth the framework of procedures
and measures to mitigate any adverse impacts to the environment and incorporated
into the Operational Manual.
6. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
7. 
"Manat" means the currency of the Borrower.
8. 
"Micro-credit" means a micro-credit made or proposed to be made by the eligible
credit unions to Beneficiaries for the purpose of financing expenditures incurred
for goods, works and services for carrying out a Sub-project; and the term "Micro-
credits" means, collectively, all such Micro-credits.
9. 
"Operating Costs" means incremental operating and maintenance costs incurred
by the Project Implementing Entity on account of management of Project
implementation for communications, utilities including electricity, bank charges,
printing and publications, office rent maintenance, repair and supplies, office
security systems, vehicle operation, fuel and maintenance, salaries of the Project
Implementing Entity's staff employed for the purpose of the Project, excluding
those who are civil servants, eligible social charges, transportation and field trip
expenses, insurance for office equipment and vehicle, all for the purpose of Project
management, as such other expenditures as may be agreed upon by the Bank.
-18-
10. 
"Operational Manual" means the manual adopted by the Project Implementing
Entity, setting forth the procedures for implementation of the Project, as the same
may be amended from time to time with the approval of the Bank, and such term
includes any schedules to the Operational Manual.
11. 
"Original Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement between the Borrower and
the Bank for the "IDP Living Standards and Livelihoods Project", dated November
16, 2011, as amended to the date of this Agreement (Loan No 8096-AZ).
12. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
13. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
April 6, 2016 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
14. 
"Project Account" means the project account used for the Borrower's counterpart
financing for the Project, referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement.
15. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means the Republic of Azerbaijan Social Fund for
Development of IDP, an autonomous public agency of the Borrower, established
pursuant to its Charter, or any other successor thereto.
16. 
"Project Implementing Entity's Legislation" means the Charter of the SFDI, dated
December 6, 1999, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
17. 
"RPF" means the Borrower's Resettlement Policy Framework, dated December
2015 satisfactory to the Bank, for the carrying out of resettlement activities under
the Project, as such Framework may be amended from time to time with the prior
approval of the Bank.
18. 
"Selected IDP New Settlement" means the settlements built by the Borrower with
the purpose of improving living conditions of IDPs and relocating them form
temporary camps, selected in accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth
in the Operational Manual to benefit from the Project.
19. 
"Small Grants" means grants made or proposed to be made by the Project
Implementing Entity, out of the proceeds of the Loan, to finance eligible income
generating activities under Part C.2 (b) and C.4 of the Project in accordance with
the Project's Operational Manual.
20. 
"Sub-loan" a loan made or proposed to be made by the Project Implementing
Entity to eligible credit unions for the purpose of on-lending to Beneficiaries for
-19-
financing the expenditures incurred for goods, works and services for carrying out
a Sub-project; and the term "Sub-loans" means, collectively, all such Sub-loans.
21. 
"Sub-project" means a sub-project for starting or scaling-up of small business to
be carried out by Beneficiaries under Part C.3 and C.4 of the Project, eligible for
financing under a Sub-loan in accordance with the procedures and eligibility
criteria referred to in Section I.A.7 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement as set
forth in the Operations Manual; and the term "Sub-projects" means, collectively,
all such Sub-projects.
25. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of
Schedule 2 to the Original Loan Agreement.
26. 
"Training" means expenses incurred in connection with carrying out training
activities under the Project, including course fees, the travel costs and per diem for
local trainees and trainers, study tours and workshops, rental of facilities and
equipment and training material and related supplies.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1 .
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan
amount at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement
(the "Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective
dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan
Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-
annually in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
-20-
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified
in the Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties
to the Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions,
including (but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance,
interest, the Front-end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default
Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a
Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread
Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount
payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
