OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8663-BY
Loan Agreement
(Belarus Health System Modernization Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BELARUS
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated / 
2016
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8663-BY
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement 
dated 
V 
a2,6 
, 
2016, 
between
REPUBLIC OF BELARUS 
("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred twenty five million
Dollars (US$125,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08
of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule
1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower's Representative for purposes
of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is its
Minister of Health.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
-2-
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower, through the MoH, shall cause the Republican Scientific and Practical
Center 
for 
Medical 
Technologies, 
Informatization, 
Administration 
and
Management of Health (RSPC MT) to carry out the Project, in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the MoH ministerial
order referred to in Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
The MoH ministerial order referred to in Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or
not enforced, in such a manner so as to affect materially and adversely, in
the opinion of the Bank, the ability of RSPC MT to carry out the Project.
(b) 
The RSPC MT's Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially or adversely, in the opinion
of the Bank, RSPC MT's ability to carry out the Project pursuant to the
Ministerial Order.
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that any
event specified in Section 4.01 (a) and (b) of this Agreement occurs and is
continuing for a period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given
by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The Ministerial Order has been issued and is in full force and effect.
(b) 
The Project Operational Manual has been adopted by MoH.
(c) 
The financial management and procurement specialists referred to in Part
4 (c) of the Project have been selected and hired in a manner acceptable to
the Bank.
-4-
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower's
Representative is the Borrower's Deputy Prime Minister.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Council of Ministers of the Republic of Belarus
House of Government
Minsk, 220010
Sovetskaya Str. 11
Republic of Belarus
Facsimile:
375 17 2226665
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at Minsk, Republic of Belarus, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BELARUS
By: 
//
Authoized Representative
Name:
Title: 
/V 
e 
Je/
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By:
Authorized Representv
Name:
Title:
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to contribute to improving selected aspects of the
quality of the health care delivery in the Republic of Belarus.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. Establishment of e-Health and Clinical Decision-support Systems
1.1. 
Integrated Health Management Information System:
Carrying out the following activities, inter alia:
(a) 
the rehabilitation of selected Borrower's regional offices for housing IT-
related infrastructure, including the preparation of the technical designs
and the purchase of required equipment;
(b) 
(i) the design and implementation of a centralized e-health system for
medical data exchange, including document registry and archive; (ii) the
establishment of a medical information exchange procedures and
governance with responsibilities of each healthcare institution clearly
described; and (iii) the standardization of health care digital data and data
exchange protocols;
(c) 
the update and implementation of electronic medical records in selected
hospitals and PHC facilities, through the acquisition and installation of
hardware and software;
(d) 
the review of the Borrower's legal and institutional framework on, inter
alia, patient health data protection;
(e) 
the carrying out of training activities on the e-health system referred to in
Part 1.1 (b)(i) above; and
(f) 
the design and implementation of patient satisfaction survey(s).
1.2. 
Clinical Decision Support System for Quality Improvement:
Design and implementation of a clinical decision support IT system, including the
provision of relevant training and purchase of required software and hardware.
-7-
Part 2. Improvement of Clinical Competencies of Health Care Providers in Non-
communicable Disease Management
Carrying out the following activities, inter alia:
(a) 
the review of the curriculum and development of unified training standards
of selected health providers;
(b) 
the development of a certification program of students/trainees' skills;
(c) 
the preparation of the technical designs for the works to be carried out
under Part 2 (d) below;
(d) 
(i) the construction of a high-tech simulation center in BelMAPO; and (ii)
the rehabilitation/upgrading of skill laboratories in selected Borrower's
medical universities and colleges; and (iii) the purchase of required
equipment;
(e) 
acquisition and installation of training software;
(f) 
the design and implementation of technical assessment and satisfaction
surveys for training beneficiaries; and
(g) 
the carrying out of training activities.
Part. 3. Modernization of Neonatal care at the Republican Center of Mother and
Child
Modernization of the neonatal department at the RCMC through, inter alia:
(a) 
the preparation of the technical designs for the works to be carried out
under Part 3(b) below;
(b) 
(i) the carrying out of the rehabilitation works, including the construction
of a room dedicated to nursing and breast milk pumping; and (ii) the
purchase of required equipment;
(c) 
the provision of training to RCMC's medical staff; and
(d) 
the development of quality improvement tools and procedures.
Part. 4. Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
Carrying out the implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the Project,
including:(a) the carrying out of the Project audits; (b) the carrying out of training
-8-
activities; 
(c) the selection 
and hiring of financial management, procurement,
disbursement/accounting and safeguards specialists and a civil construction engineer; (d)
the financing of Operating Costs; and (e) the carrying out of households and medical
facility feedback surveys.
-9-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arran2ements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall vest the overall responsibility for the implementation of the
project in MoH and to this end, though MoH shall:
(a) 
cause RSPC MT to:
(i) 
operate and maintain, throughout Project implementation, the
Project Management Unit (PMU) with qualified staff in sufficient
numbers 
(including 
financial 
management, 
procurement,
disbursement/accounting and safeguards specialists and a civil
construction engineer) , as well as adequate funds, facilities,
services 
and other resources 
for Project implementation,
monitoring and evaluation, all acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) 
ensure that any staff of the PMU financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan is selected and hired in accordance with Section III of
this Schedule;
(iii) 
no later than ninety (90) days after the Effective Date, select and
hire a safeguards specialist, an additional procurement specialist,
an accounting/disbursement specialist and a civil construction
engineer, all under terms of reference and in a manner acceptable
to the Bank; and
(iv) 
no later than ninety (90) days after the Effective Date, to install
and adapt the accounting software for Project accounting,
budgeting and reporting under terms and in a manner acceptable
to the Bank; and
(b) 
ensure, throughout Project implementation, the coordination between
RSPC MT and other MoH's subordinated agencies (including BelMAPO
and RCMC) and regional health departments participating in the
implementation of the technical aspects of the Project, all with appropriate
powers, functions, capacity, staffing and resources to fulfill their
respective responsibilities under the Project as set forth in the POM.
2. 
The Borrower, through MoH, shall cause RSPC MT to: (a) carry out the Project in
accordance with the requirements set forth in the POM; and (b) not assign, amend,
- 10 -
abrogate, or waive the POM or any of its provisions, except with the prior written
approval of the Bank. In case of any conflict between the terms of the POM and
those of this Agreement, the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall prevail.
3. 
The Borrower shall operate and maintain, throughout Project implementation, a
committee (Steering Committee) vested with the responsibility to oversee and
coordinate Project implementation, with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank,
as described in the POM.
B. 
Ministerial Order
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower, through MoH, shall issue
a ministerial order, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (Ministerial Order)
which shall include, inter alia:
(a) 
the obligation of RSPC MT to:
(i) 
implement the Project in accordance with the pertinent provisions
of this Agreement (including compliance with the pertinent
provisions set forth in the Safeguards, Procurement and Financial
Management sections and the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions), the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and the
POM;
(ii) 
promptly inform the Borrower and the Bank of any condition
which interferes, or threatens to interfere, with the performance of
its obligations under the Ministerial Order; and
(iii) 
take or permit to be taken all actions to enable the Borrower to
comply with the obligations referred to in this Agreement as
applicable to RSPC MT; and
(b) 
the obligation of BelMAPO and the RCMC, each to assist the MoH and
RSPC MT in the implementation of the technical aspects of the Project
and in compliance with the pertinent provisions of this Agreement.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower, through MoH, shall cause RSPC MT to carry out the Project in
accordance with the EMF. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
-11 -
shall ensure that the EMF or any of its provisions are not assigned, amended,
abrogated or waived.
2. 
The Borrower, through MoH, shall ensure that no activities that involve
Involuntary Resettlement will be carried out under the Project.
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure, that the terms of reference for any consultancy in
respect of the activities under Parts 1.1(a), 2(c) and 3(a) of the Project shall be
satisfactory to the Bank following its review thereof and, to that end, such terms
of reference shall duly incorporate the requirements of the Bank's Safeguards
Policies and Procedures then in force, as applied to the advice conveyed through
such technical assistance.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower, through MoH, shall cause RSPC MT to monitor and evaluate the
progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators
acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar
quarter, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one month after the end
of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower, through MoH, shall cause RSPC MT to prepare and furnish to the
Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter,
interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through MoH, shall cause RSPC MT to have its Financial
Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the
General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period
of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such
period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of
such period.
- 12 -
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section (including Annex A to this Schedule).
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive
Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set forth in the Annex to this
Schedule; (b) Shopping; (c) Direct Contracting; and (d) Force Account.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
- 13 -
Budget; 
(c) 
Least Cost Selection; 
(d) Selection based on Consultants'
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Procedures set
forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of
Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
2. 
The Borrower, through MoH, shall cause RSPC MT to:
(a) 
no later than February 15 (or any other date as shall be agreed by the Bank)
of every year during the implementation of the Project, beginning on
February 15, 2018 (or any other date as shall be agreed by the Bank), to
prepare and furnish to the Bank a procurement progress report
(Procurement Report), in form and substance acceptable to the Bank,
which shall include, inter alia:
(i) 
a description of the issues which arose during the full procurement
cycle under the Project during the twelve (12) months preceding
the date of presenting each Procurement Report, from design
through 
planning, 
bidding, 
contract 
implementation 
and
completion;
(ii) 
a list of proposed measures and actions to be taken to resolve the
issues identified under (i) above; and
(iii) 
a proposed timeline for the implementation of the said measures
and actions; and
(b) 
thereafter implement the proposed measures and actions under each
Procurement Report in accordance with its terms and in a manner
acceptable to the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised
- 14 -
from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant
to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) 
financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non-
consulting services, 
124,687,500 
100%
consultants' services,
Training and Operating
Costs for the Project
Amount payable pursuant
(2) Front-end Fee 
312,500 
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(3) Interest Rate Cap or 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar 
0 
Section 2.08(c) of this
premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
125000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is May 31, 2022.
- 15 -
ANNEX
to
SCHEDULE 2
Additional Provisions Relating to Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-
Consulting Services under Bank-Financed Contracts Subject to National
Competitive Bidding
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement or the Procurement Guidelines, the procurement procedure to be followed for
National Competitive Bidding shall be the Open Tender procedure set forth in the Public
Procurement Law of the Borrower (Law No. 419-3 on Public Procurement of Goods
(Works, Services), dated 13 July 2012) (the "PPL"), and subject to the following
provisions:
A. 
Eligibility
The eligibility of bidders shall be as defined under Section I of the Procurement
Guidelines; accordingly, no bidder or potential bidder shall be declared ineligible for
contracts financed by the Bank for reasons other than those provided in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines.
Bidding shall not be restricted to domestic bidders. No restrictions in respect of
eligibility to participate in bidding for contracts shall be placed on the basis of nationality
of the bidder and/or the origin of goods other than those set forth in paragraph 1.10 of the
Procurement Guidelines. No restriction of any kind shall be applied to foreign bidders who
wish to submit a bid.
Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered or invited firms, and foreign
bidders shall not be required to be registered with local authorities as a prerequisite for
submitting bids.
B. 
Procedures
(a) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in the Borrower's Official Gazette or
in at least one widely circulated national daily newspaper or in an
electronic portal of free access allowing a minimum of thirty (30) calendar
days for the preparation and submission of bids, from the date of
publication of the invitation to bid or the date of availability of the bidding
documents, whichever is later.
(b) 
The sale and/or issuance of bidding documents shall not be restricted only
to entities invited by the procuring entity.
- 16 -
(c) 
Bids shall be submitted as paper documents and subsequent procurement
process (bid opening, bid evaluation, the contract finalization) shall be
conducted using conventional paper formats. The Borrower shall be able
to use an electronic system permitting bidders to submit bids by electronic
means, provided the Bank is satisfied with the adequacy of the system,
including inter alia, that the system is secure, maintains the integrity,
confidentiality, and authenticity of bids submitted, and uses an electronic
signature system or equivalent to keep bidders bound to their bids.
(d) 
Prequalification procedures acceptable to the Bank shall be used for large,
complex and/or specialized contracts.
C. 
Assessment of Bidders' Qualifications
In the procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services, where pre-
qualification is not used, the qualifications of the bidder who is recommended for award of
contract shall be assessed by post-qualification, applying minimum experience, technical
and financial requirements which shall be explicitly stated in the bidding documents and
which shall be determined by a 'pass/fail' method acceptable to the Bank.
D. 
Participation by Government-owned Enterprises
Government-owned enterprises shall be eligible to participate in bidding only if
they meet the requirement set forth in paragraph 1.10 (b) of the Procurement Guidelines.
Furthermore, they will be subject to the same bid and performance security requirements
as other bidders.
E. 
Participation by Joint Ventures
Participation shall be allowed from joint ventures on the condition that such joint
venture partners will be jointly and severally liable under the pertinent contract.
F. 
Bidding Documents
The procuring entities shall use the appropriate bidding documents, including
contractual conditions, acceptable to the Bank, which shall be prepared so as to ensure
economy, efficiency, transparency, and broad consistency with the provisions of Section I
of the Procurement Guidelines.
G. 
Bid Evaluation
(a) 
Evaluation criteria, other than price, shall be quantified in monetary terms
in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
- 17 -
(b) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the monetarily-
quantifiable criteria declared in the bidding documents and a merit point
system shall not be used.
(c) 
An extension of bid validity, if justified by exceptional circumstances,
may be requested in writing from all bidders before the bid validity
expiration date and shall be allowed once only for the minimum period
required to complete the evaluation or award a contract, but not more than
thirty (30) calendar days from the date of the decision to extend the bid
validity. 
No further extensions shall be requested without the prior
approval of the Bank.
(d) 
Bids containing material deviations from the bidding document
requirements shall be rejected. Non-material documentary deviations or
quantifiable minor deviations may not be the reason for the rejection of
bids.
(e) 
Bids may not be rejected where they differ substantially from the estimated
prices calculated by the procuring entity, except where the bid prices
exceed the available budget.
(f) 
Contracts shall be awarded to qualified bidders having submitted the
lowest evaluated substantially responsive bid, and no negotiation as to the
price or substance of the bid shall take place.
(g) 
No domestic preference shall apply under National Competitive Bidding.
(h) 
Bid evaluation shall be confidential and no information shall be disclosed
until the notification of the award.
H. 
Price Adjustment
Civil works contracts of long duration (i.e. more than eighteen (18) months) shall
contain an appropriate price adjustment clause acceptable to the Bank.
I. 
Rejection of All Bids
All bids (or the sole bid if only one bid is received) shall not be rejected, the
procurement process shall not be cancelled, and new bids shall not be solicited, without the
Bank's prior written concurrence.
J. 
Securities
Performance securities should not exceed ten percent (10%) of the contract price.
No advance payments shall be made to the suppliers/contractors without a suitable advance
- 18 -
payment security. The wording of all such securities shall be included in the bidding
documents and shall be acceptable to the Bank. Bidders shall be given at least twenty-
eight (28) calendar days from the receipt of notification of contract award to submit
Performance securities, and Bid securities shall remain valid for such period.
K. 
Contract Modification and Termination
With respect to contracts subject to the Bank's prior review, the Borrower shall
obtain the Bank's no objection before agreeing to: (a) a material extension of the stipulated
time for performance of a contract; (b) any substantial modification of the scope of services
or other significant changes to the terms and conditions of the contract; (c) any variation
order or amendment which, singly or combined with all variation orders or amendments
previously issued, increases the original contract amount by more than fifteen percent
(15%); or (d) the proposed termination of the contract. A copy of all contract amendments
shall be provided to the Bank.
L. 
Fraud and Corruption
Each bidding document and contract financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
include provisions stating the Bank's policy to sanction firms or individuals found to have
engaged in fraud and corruption, as defined in paragraph 1.16(a) of the Procurement
Guidelines.
M. 
Audit Rights
In accordance with paragraph 1.16(e) of the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding
document and contract financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall provide that: (i)
bidders, suppliers, contractors and subcontractors shall permit the Bank, at its request, to
inspect their accounts and records relating to the bid submission and performance of the
contract, and to have said accounts and records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank;
and (ii) the deliberate and material violation by the bidder, supplier, contractor or
subcontractor of such provision may amount to an obstructive practice as defined in
paragraph 1.1 6(a)(v) of the Procurement Guidelines.
- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Installment Share
(Expressed as a
Principal Payment Date 
Percentage)
On each March 15 and September 15
Beginning March 15, 2022 
5%
Through September 15, 2031
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
- 20 -
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
-21-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Bank's Safeguards Policies and Procedures" means the operational policies and
procedures of the Bank (as the same may be amended from time to time by the
Bank) set forth in the Bank's Operational Manual and identified as Environmental
Assessment (OP/BP 4.01), Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04), Forests (OP/BP 4.36),
Pest Management (OP/BP 4.09), Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10), Physical
Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11), Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12),
Forestry (OP/BP 4.36), Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37), Projects on International
Waterways (OP/BP 7.50), and Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60), as said
manual is published under www.worldbank.org.
3. 
"BelMAPO" means Ee;opyccKa3i meoUYUHcKaR aKaemwi nOCJie6un7OMHO0O
o6pa3oeanU, the Borrower's Medical Academy of Postdiploma Education
established pursuant to the MoH's Order No. 174, dated July 17, 2000 (as revised
pursuant to the MoH's Order No. 957, dated September 18, 2014).
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
5. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
6. 
"EMF" means the Borrower's Environmental Management Framework publicly
disclosed on May 23, 2016, in form and substance acceptable to the Bank which
contains, inter alia: (a) guidelines for the carrying out of environmental
assessments and the preparation of environmental management plans/checklists,
when applicable; (b) environmental mitigation measures anticipated for activities
under the Project; and (c) the Borrower's agencies responsible for monitoring of
construction and operational impacts, as said framework may be amended from
time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
7. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
8. 
"Involuntary Resettlement" means the impact of an involuntary taking of land
under the Project, which taking causes affected persons to have their: (a) standard
- 22 -
of living adversely affected; or (b) right, title or interest in any house, land
(including premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable
asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (c) access to
productive assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (d) business,
occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily
or permanently.
9. 
"IT" means Information Technology.
10. 
"Ministerial Order" means MoH Ministerial Order designating responsibility to
RSPC MT for the implementation of the Project, as referred to in Section I.B of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
11. 
MoH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health, or any successor thereto.
12. 
"Operating Costs" means the reasonable operational costs (which would not have
been incurred absent the Project), incurred by RSPC MT related to Project
implementation, including inter alia, the costs of bank charges, salaries of staff
working for the Project (including associated taxes and charges for insurance, as
determined by the Bank, but excluding salaries of the Borrower's civil servants),
and such other expenditures as may be agreed upon by the Bank, all based on semi-
annual budgets acceptable to the Bank.
13. 
"PHC" means Primary Health Care.
14. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
15. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
October 20, 2016 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines
and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
16. 
"Procurement Report" means any of the reports referred to in Section III.D.2 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
17. 
"Project Management Unit" or "PMU" means the unit within RSPC MT referred
to in Section I.A. 1 (a) (i) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
18. 
"Project Operational Manual" or "POM" means the Borrower's manual referred
to in Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
- 23 -
19. 
"RSMC" 
means 
Focy6apcm6ennoe ytpewodenue 
oPecny6,uKaHcKuii
nayquo-npaKmuqecKuii zlemp 
e(Mamb 
u 
dum3i) 
Munucmepcmea
36paeooxpaneuu3 Pecny6.7uKu Ee,7apycb, the Borrower's National Scientific
Practical Center "Mother and Child", established pursuant to the MoH's Order No.
203, dated August 27, 2004.
20. 
"RSPC MT" means the Borrower's Republican Scientific and Practical Center for
Medical Technologies, Informatization, Administration and Management of
Health established pursuant to RSPC MT's Legislation, or any successor thereto
acceptable to the Bank.
21. 
"RSPC MT's Legislation" means the Borrower's Resolution of the Council of
Ministers No. 109 of February 28, 1992 "On Establishment of the Ministry of
Health Center for Medical Technology, Public Health Informatics and Economy";
the MoH's Order No. 46 of March 13, 1992 "On Establishment of the Belarusian
Center for Public Health Informatics, Management and Economy; the MoH's
Order No. 470 of June 4, 2007 "On Renaming the State Establishment "Belarusian
Center for Medical Technology, Public Health Informatics, Management and
Economy and Approval of the Articles of Association" (as revised by the MoH's
Order No. 1297, dated 2015).
22. 
"Training" means the expenses (other than those for consultants' services) incurred
by the Borrower to finance the reasonable travel costs (i.e. accommodation,
transportation, travel insurance and per diem, inter alia) of trainees and trainers (if
applicable), training registration fees, catering, rental of training facilities and
equipment, logistics and printing services, as well as training materials, all for the
purposes of, and directly related to, the training activities (including study tours)
described in the Project, all based on semi-annual budgets acceptable to the Bank.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1 .
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan
amount at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-
end Fee").
- 24 -
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan
Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). 
The Commitment
Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the
Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled.
The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in
arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified
in the Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties
to the Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions,
including (but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance,
interest, the Front-end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default
Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a
Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread
Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount
payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
