LOAN NUMBER 8535-GA
Loan Agreement
(Access to Basic Services in Rural Areas and Capacity Building Project)
between
GABONESE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
a 
t 
,2016
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8535-GA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
4CO WWOA 
\ 
, 201(, between GABONESE
REPUBLIC ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty-three million seven hundred
thousand Euros (E53,700,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08
of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule
I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
not later than sixty days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided,
that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the
General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower
-2-
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 of
the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement
2.09. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis
applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each
six (6) consecutive Interest Period shall be converted from the initial Variable Rate
-3-
to a Fixed Rate for the full maturity of such amount 
in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall carry out, through MERH, the Project in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The Project Implementation Manual has been adopted in accordance with
Section I.C.2(c) of the Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(b) 
The Steering Committee has been established and staffed in accordance
with Section I.A. I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister in charge of economy.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Sustainable Development, Economy, Investment Promotion and
Prospective
Boulevard Triomphal
B.P. 747
Libreville
Gabonese Republic
Facsimile:
(241) 1795-598
-4-
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at Libreville, Gabonese Republic, as of the day and year first above
written.
GABONESE REPUBLIC
By
Authoriz 
tve
Name: 
Xvmrrn. 3e 
; 
o e
Title: 
I;nire 
p
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOP
By
thorized R 
a
Name: -ko4gme Sv(v,Le 
i~2~
Title: 
A21
4
14
4
1soal"
1
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to expand access to water and energy services in
targeted rural areas and to establish mechanisms to improve sustainability of service
provision.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A. Expansion of Access to Basic Services in Rural Areas
Providing access to electricity and water in targeted rural areas (individual and
social-public areas), through: (1) rehabilitation and construction of rural
electrification infrastructure, including installation of solar home systems and
mini-grid solutions; (2) construction and installation of wells and water pipes for
drinkable water; and (3) provision of goods and equipment required for the
purpose.
Part B. Implementation Support, Supervision and Monitoring and Evaluation
I. 
Carrying out a program of activities aimed at ensuring sustainability in the
electricity and water sector, through capacity building and technical assistance in
technical, financial and contractual areas to key selected actors.
2. 
(a) Development and completion of a master plan for access to basic services in
the Borrower's rural areas covering, inter alia, rural electrification and water
supply and related technical options on a village-by-village basis; (b) development
of related environmental and social impact studies; and (c) provision of
engineering expertise for implementation support purposes.
3. 
Development and implementation of a communication, education and awareness
program in targeted rural areas, including the implementation of a health campaign
aimed at raising awareness on the benefits of clean water.
4. 
Support to the Borrower in the areas of Project coordination, supervision, financial
management, procurement, monitoring and evaluation, audits, and preparation and
supervision of implementation of the Safeguards Instruments and preparation of
related surveys, including through the provision of Training, Operating Costs,
goods and services for the required purpose.
Part C. Capacity Building and Sectoral Technical Assistance
1. 
Strengthening the capacity of the MERH, CNEE, ARSEE and private operators to
better manage the energy sector by developing and implementing a module based
training program (including on-the-job daily training and workshops) in the areas
-7-
of, inter alia, planning, operation and maintenance, and management of basic rural
services.
2. 
Carrying out a program of activities aimed at assisting the MERH in strategic
decision making and implementation in related sectors through, inter alia:
(i) provision of technical assistance; (ii) development of electricity and water
codes; (iii) update of the national electricity transmission and generation master
plan; and (iv) the preparation of analytical and sector focused studies.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section 1. 
Implementation Arran2ements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
I. 
Steering Committee
The Borrower shall 
establish, and thereafter maintain, throughout the Project
implementation period, with composition, mandate and resources satisfactory to the Bank,
a steering committee, to be chaired by the minister of the MERH and comprised of
representatives of key ministries and agencies, to be responsible for providing overall
guidance and strategic support to the Project, including, inter alia, endorsing the proposed
Annual Work Plan for the Project (the "Steering Committee").
2. 
Project Implementation Unit
In order to ensure proper and efficient implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall
maintain, at all times during Project implementation, the CN-TIPPEE, with a mandate,
staffing and other resources satisfactory to the Bank to be the implementation unit for the
Project ("Project Implementation Unit" or "PIU"). To this end, the Project Implementation
Unit shall be: (a) comprised of qualified and competent staff in adequate numbers;
including a Project coordinator, a procurement specialist, a financial management
specialist, a monitoring and evaluation specialist, and a safeguard specialist; and
(b) responsible for day to day Project coordination and implementation, including:
(i) carrying out Project financial management and procurement activities; (ii) preparing
Annual Work Plans; (iii) ensuring compliance with Safeguard Instruments for Project
activities; and (iv) monitoring and evaluating Project activities and preparing Project
progress reports and monitoring and evaluation reports.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Project Implementation Manual
I. 
The Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank a proposed implementation manual for the
Project 
containing 
detailed: 
(a) 
implementation; 
(b) 
administrative;
(c) procurement; (d) financial management and accounting; including any required
accounting software updates; and (e) monitoring and evaluation procedures and
arrangements for the Project.
-9-
2. 
The Borrower shall: (a) furnish such manual to the Bank for review and approval;
(b) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower
on said manual; and (c) thereafter adopt said manual as shall have been approved
by the Bank ("Project Implementation Manual" and "PIM").
3. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project
Implementation Manual; and shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit
to be assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned manual, or any
provision thereof, without the prior written agreement of the Bank.
4. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of any inconsistency between the
provisions of the Project Implementation Manual and those of this Agreement, the
provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
D. 
Annual Work Plan
1 .
The Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank no later than October 31 of each calendar year
throughout the implementation of the Project, a work plan of activities proposed
for inclusion in the Project for the next calendar year, together with a budget for
such activities and a timetable for their implementation.
2. 
The Borrower shall: (i) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on such proposed work plan; and, thereafter; (ii) carry
out such work plan during the period covered by said plan, according to such
budget, both as shall have been approved by the Bank ("Annual Work Plan").
3. 
Only such activities as shall have been included in the Annual Work Plan shall be
eligible for inclusion in the Project and for financing out of the proceeds of the
Loan.
E. 
Safeguards
1 .
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
Safeguard Instruments, and to that end, if any activity included in an Annual Work
Plan would, pursuant to the Safeguard Frameworks, require the adoption of any
Safeguard Document, the Borrower shall:
(a) 
(i) prepare such Safeguard Document and furnish it to the Bank for review
and approval; and thereafter, (ii) adopt such Safeguard Document prior to
implementation of the activity in question; and
(b) 
thereafter take such measures, as shall be necessary or appropriate to
ensure compliance with the requirements of such Safeguard Document,
including, without 
limitation to the above, providing 
funds for
resettlement compensation when and if required under a RAP.
-10-
2. 
Without limitation upon its other reporting obligations under this Agreement, the
Borrower shall regularly collect, compile and submit to the Bank every calendar
semester, reports, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, on the status of
compliance with the Safeguard Instruments, giving details of:
(a) 
measures taken in furtherance of such Safeguard Instruments;
(b) 
conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the smooth
implementation of such Safeguard Instruments; and
(c) 
remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such
conditions.
3. 
The Borrower shall afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to review the reports
prepared under paragraph 2 of this Part E, and thereafter shall carry out or cause
to be carried out, with due diligence, all remedial measures agreed with the Bank
so as to ensure the proper implementation of the Project in accordance with the
Safeguard Instruments.
Section II. 
Project Monitorina Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such
report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1 .
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of
each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering
the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than six months after the end of such period.
-11-
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1 .
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive
Bidding, subject to the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Section III.B;
(b) Shopping; (c) Limited International Bidding; and (d) Direct Contracting.
3. 
Each bidding document and contract financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
provide that: (a) the bidders, suppliers, contractors and their subcontractors, agents,
personnel, consultants, service providers, or suppliers shall permit the Bank, at its
request, to inspect all accounts, records and other documents relating to the
submission of bids and contract performance, and to have said accounts and
records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank; and (b) the deliberate and
material violation of such provision may amount to an obstructive practice as
defined 
in 
paragraph 
1.16 
(a)-(e) 
of 
the 
Procurement 
Guidelines:
(i) invitations to bid shall be advertised in national newspapers with wide
circulation; (ii) the bid evaluation, qualification of bidders and contract award
-12-
criteria shall be clearly indicated in the bidding documents; (iii) bidders shall be
given adequate response time (at least four weeks) to submit bids from the date of
the invitation to bid or the date of availability of bidding documents, whichever is
later; (iv) eligible bidders, including foreign bidders, shall be allowed to
participate; (v) no domestic or CEMAC's regional preference shall be given to
domestic or regional contractors, domestically or regionally manufactured goods;
and association with national or regional firm shall not be a condition for
participation in a bidding process; (vi) bids are awarded to the substantially
responsive and the lowest evaluated bidder proven this bidder is qualified. No
scoring system shall be allowed for the evaluation of bids, and no blanket
limitation to the number of lots which can be awarded to a bidder shall apply; and
(vii) qualification criteria shall only concern the bidder's capability and resources
to perform the contract taking into account objective and measurable factors.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; 
(c) 
Least Cost Selection; 
(d) 
Selection based on Consultants'
Qualifications; 
(e) 
Single-source 
Selection 
of 
consulting 
firms;
(f) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for
the Selection of Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the
Selection of Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article 11 of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised
from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant
-13-
to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Percentage of
Expenditures to be
Amount of the Loan 
financed
Allocated 
(inclusive of Taxes)
Category 
(expressed in EUR)
(1) Goods, works, 
40,600,000 
100%
consultants' services,
and non-consulting
services under Part A
of the Project
(2) Goods, non-consulting 
12,965,750 
100%
services, Operating
Costs, Training, and
consultants' services
under Parts B and C of
the Project
(3) Front-end Fee 
134,250 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(4) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar 
Section 
2.08(c) 
of this
premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
53,700,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made from the Loan Account:
-14-
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b) 
under Category (1), until and unless the Borrower has: (i) recruited the
first O&M Operator; and (ii) prepared and submitted to the Bank an O&M
Financing Framework, in form and substance acceptable to the Bank.
2. 
The Closing Date is November 30, 2021.
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
A. 
In order to ensure proper operation and maintenance of infrastructure under Part A
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ, in accordance with the provisions of
Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, O&M Operators each of whose
qualifications, experience and terms of reference shall be acceptable to the Bank,
to be responsible for O&M of basic rural water and electricity infrastructure and
services, in accordance with terms and conditions as further detailed in the PIM.
B. 
The Borrower shall: (i) not later than six (6) months after the Effective Date, open
an account in a financial institution acceptable to the Bank ("Payment Account")
and deposit an amount in said account acceptable to the Bank for the purposes of
carrying out payments to the O&M Operators; and (ii) maintain the Payment
Account throughout Project implementation, and replenish it, every six-month (6)
period with an amount to be agreed-upon with the Bank, for the purposes of
carrying-out regular payments to the O&M Operators.
-15-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Principal Payment Date 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each June 15 and December15 
3,33%
Beginning December 15, 2020
through December 15, 2034
On June 15, 2035 
3,43%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
-16-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
-17-
APPENDIX
Section 1. 
Definitions
I. 
"Annual Work Plan" means each annual work plan, together with the related
budget for the Project approved by the Bank pursuant to the provision of Section
I.D.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
3. 
"ARSEE" means the "Agence de Rigulation du Secteur de l'Eau Potable et de
l'Energie Electrique, the Borrower's regulatory agency for water and electricity
sectors, established pursuant to Borrower's Ordinance no.019/PR/2010 dated
February 25, 2010, as the same may be amended from time to time.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
5. 
"CEMAC " means the public Economic and Monetary Community of Central
Africa (Communauti Economique et Monitaire des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale).
6. 
"CNEE" means the "Conseil National de l'Eau et de l'Electriciti ", the Borrower's
National Council for Water and Electricity" established pursuant to Borrower's
Law no.019/95 dated November 23, 1995, as the same may be amended from time
to time.
7. 
"CN-TIPPEE" means the Borrower's National Commission - Labor Intensive
Small-Scale Public Infrastructure Works ("Commission Nationale -
Travaux
d'Intirit Public pour la Promotion de l'Entreprenariat et de l'Emploi"),
established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Ministerial Decision (Arreti)
No. 00007/PRIMPPD dated January 4, 2006, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and responsible for carrying out projects which are in the public
interest on behalf of all stakeholders (the government, regional and local
administrations, non-governmental organizations or donors) with a view to
implement best practices and sound governance.
8. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
9. 
"Environmental 
and Social Management Plan" 
and "ESMP" means an
environmental and social management plan for the Project to be prepared and
implemented in accordance with the ESMF and pursuant to the provisions of
-18-
Section I.E. 1(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and "ESMPs" means more than
one ESMP.
10. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" and "ESMF" each means
the Borrower's framework entitled "Environmental and Social Management
Framework", disclosed in the Borrower's territory on October 9, 2014, and at the
Bank's Infoshop on October 9, 2014, detailing: (a) the measures to be taken during
the implementation and operation of the Project to eliminate or offset adverse
environmental and social impacts, or to reduce them to acceptable levels; and (b)
the actions needed to implement these measures, including monitoring and
institution strengthening.
11. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
12. 
"Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework" and "IPPF" each means the framework
entitled "Cadre de Planification en faveur des Populations Sensibles
Potentiellement affecties par le Projet" which sets forth specific guidelines to
address indigenous peoples' concerns in the Project area, guide the conduct of free,
prior and informed consultation and ensure broad community support of the
indigenous peoples, disclosed in the Borrower's territory on October 9, 2014, and
at the Bank's Infoshop on October 9, 2014, as such framework may be amended
from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
13. 
"Indigenous Peoples Plan" and "IPP" each means an indigenous peoples plan for
the Project to be prepared and implemented in accordance with the IPPF and
pursuant to the provisions of Section E.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
"IPPs" means more than one IPP.
14. 
"O&M" means operation and maintenance.
15. 
"O&M Financing Framework" means the Borrower's sustainable financing
framework laying out necessary arrangements to finance the O&M contracts,
including inter alia, services costs, tariffs and water and electricity subsidies
payment mechanism, as shall be approved by the Bank.
16. 
"O&M Operator" means the private specialized operator referred to in Section V.A
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and "O&M Operators" means more than one
O&M Operator.
17. 
"Operating Costs" means the incremental operating expenses, approved by the
Bank under each Annual Work Plan, on account of the Project, including office
supplies, short message service fees, mobile transfer fees, travel and supervision
A-
-19-
costs, per diem, but excluding the salaries of officials and public servants of the
Borrower's civil service.
18. 
"MERH" means "Ministere de l'Energie et des Ressources Hydrauliques", the
Borrower's ministry in charge of energy and hydraulic resources.
19. 
"Project Implementation Unit" and "PIU", each means the unit to be established
under the Project in accordance with Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
20. 
"Project Implementation Manual" and "PIM" each means the manual for the
Project to be prepared and adopted in accordance with the provisions of Section
LC of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
21. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
22. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
November 11, 2014, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
23. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" and "RAP" each means a resettlement action plan for
the Project to be prepared and implemented in accordance with the Resettlement
Policy Framework and pursuant to the provisions of Section E.1 of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement; and "RAPs" means more than one RAP.
24. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" and "RPF" each means the Borrower's
framework entitled "Resettlement Policy Framework", disclosed in the Borrower's
territory on October 9, 2014, and at the Bank's Infoshop on October 10, 2014, and
containing guidelines, procedures, timetables and other specifications for the
provision of compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement assistance to Displaced
Persons.
25. 
"Safeguard Documents" means any ESMP, RAP, IPP, or other supplemental social
and environmental safeguard documents as required under the terms of the
Safeguard Frameworks.
26. 
"Safeguard Frameworks" means, collectively, the ESMF, the RPF and the IPPF.
27. 
"Safeguard Instruments" means, collectively, the Safeguards Frameworks and the
Safeguard Documents.
28. 
"Steering Committee" means the steering committee to be established under the
Project in accordance with Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-20-
29. 
"Training" means the training of persons involved in Project-supported activities,
such term including seminars, workshops, and study tours, and costs associated
with such activity include travel and subsistence costs for training participants,
costs associated with securing the services of trainers, rental of training facilities,
preparation and reproduction of training materials, and other costs directly related
to training preparation and implementation.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1 .
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.0 1(b)."
