OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8638-PY
Loan Agreement
(Transport Connectivity Project -
Habilitacidn de la Red Pavimentada)
between
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated as of the Signature Date, between REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million Dollars,
($100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided,
that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the
General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
-2-
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out: (a) Parts 1, 2.1, 3 and 4 of the Project through
MOPC; and (b) Part 2.2 of the Project through MOPC with the assistance of
ANTSV and the participation of the Eligible Municipalities, all in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty (180) days after the
Signature Date.
-3-
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
(Ministerio de Hacienda)
Chile 128
Asunci6n, Paraguay
Facsimile: 59521-448-283
Cc:
State Sub-secretariat of Financial Management of the Ministry of Finance
(Subsecretaria de Estado de Administraci6n Financiera del Ministerio de
Hacienda)
Facsimile: 59521 493-641
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-4-
reed at Asunci6n, Republic of Paraguay, on 
behalf of the Bank
on 0 6N, 
and on behalf of the Borrower onSe p+em 1,R), 0511 (
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
ny L 
00
Title: 
Woa*MkS 
Q'
INTERNATIONAL BANK OR
RECONSTRUCTION AND 
VEL 
1(YWII?
By 
I 
,
uthori 
d epresentative
Name: TO1ov
Title:. _____ 
h 
v___ s____________
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) reduce transport connectivity costs and
improve road safety along selected paved road sections that pass through Targeted
Departments; and (b) improve the Borrower's planning and national road asset
management capacity.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance CREMA Contracts
(a) Carrying out, under the terms of two (2) CREMA Contracts, of rehabilitation and
maintenance works for approximately three hundred and nineteen (319) kilometers of the
following identified sections of the Borrower's national paved roads RN1 and RN3-8 in
the Targeted Departments of San Pedro, Caaguazu, Canindeyu, Misiones and Itapua: (i)
San Juan Bautista - Encarnaci6n (approximately 169.7 kilometers); (ii) Mbutuy - Yasy
Kaily (approximately 70.6 kilometers); and (iii) Carayao - Tacuara - Calle 6000 y Acceso
a San Estanislao (approximately 78.4 kilometers); and (b) carrying out the supervision of
works under said CREMA Contracts; all aiming at reducing transport costs in said Targeted
Departments.
Part 2: Road Safety
2.1. Carrying out, under the terms of the two (2) CREMA Contracts referred to under Part
I of the Project, of road safety improvement interventions (including, inter alia, the
installation of side guardrails, the carrying out of signaling works, the improvement of
identified roundabouts and the construction of shoulders and of pedestrian walkways)
targeting the most vulnerable users near urban areas along the identified sections of the
Borrower's national paved roads referred to under Part 1 of the Project; all aiming at
improving road safety in Targeted Departments.
2.2. Carrying out prioritized road safety improvement interventions (other than those under
the CREMA Contracts) with the goal of improving road safety conditions in Eligible
Municipalities, such as, inter alia, road marking of exclusive areas, the installation of
traffic lights in urban areas, the construction of speed bumps, roundabouts, ramps for
people with disabilities and of pedestrian paths in school vicinities.
Part 3: Road Asset Planning and Management
Provision of support for the consolidation of MOPC's strategic road management
methodologies and systems, through: (a) the completion of MOPC's road network
inventory; (b) the expansion, operation and maintenance of MOPC's traffic counting
-6-
system; and (c) the operationalization of MOPC'S road asset management system, all
aiming at improving national planning and road asset management capacity.
Part 4: Project Management and Implementation Support
Provision of support to MOPC for Project implementation, for purposes of ensuring the
quality and timely attainment of Project's objectives, through, inter alia: (a) the financing
of Operating Costs, Training and of monitoring and evaluation activities; (b) the carrying
out of the Project audits; (c) the implementation of the Project's citizen engagement web-
based system; (d) the carrying out of environment and social management activities,
including, inter alia, safeguard compliance supervision activities; (e) the promotion of
indigenous communities' social inclusion by addressing their specific needs, differentiated
by gender; and (f) the acquisition of land and the provision of compensation (including
cash compensation and other Resettlement assistance) related to the implementation of the
RAP.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements.
1. 
The Borrower, through MOPC, shall operate and maintain, at all times throughout
Project implementation, the UEP, with functions and responsibilities acceptable to
the Bank, which shall be responsible for overall Project coordination and day to
day implementation of the Project, and staffed with competent personnel in
adequate numbers, with qualifications, experience and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, as set forth in the Operational Manual.
2. 
The Borrower, through MOPC, shall ensure, throughout Project implementation,
the coordination of UEP with other MOPC's subordinated units participating in
the implementation of the technical and fiduciary aspects of the Project, which
subordinated units shall be vested with powers and functions acceptable to the
Bank, as set forth in the Operational Manual.
3. 
The Borrower, through MOPC, shall ensure and shall cause any contractor to
ensure, that any road under a CREMA Contract has met the eligibility criteria set
forth in the Operational Manual, which criteria shall include, inter alia, that any
said road: (a) has not been previously financed by the Bank; (b) is not being
financed by the Bank, and/or is not being financed with the Borrower's funds, all
under any Bank project.
B. 
Participation Agreements.
1. 
For purposes of carrying any given Road Safety Intervention under Part 2.2 of the
Project, and prior to the carrying out of any works under the pertinent Road Safety
Intervention, the Borrower, through MOPC, shall: (a) select each Eligible
Municipality in accordance with the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational
Manual; and (b) thereafter enter into an agreement with the corresponding Eligible
Municipality and ANTSV (the Participation Agreement), under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank, as established in the Operational Manual,
setting 
forth 
their respective 
roles 
and responsibilities 
regarding 
the
implementation of the pertinent Road Safety Intervention works under Part 2.2 of
the Project, including, inter alia: (i) the obligation of the respective Eligible
Municipality to: (A) delegate to the Borrower, through MOPC, the responsibilities
to carry out the Road Safety Intervention works under the Eligible Municipality's
jurisdictions; (B) comply with the applicable Safeguard Documents; (C) upon
satisfactory completion of the pertinent Road Safety Intervention, operate and
maintain said Road Safety Intervention in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the respective Participation Agreement, with due diligence and
-8-
efficiency, and in accordance with adequate technical, economic, social and
environmental standards and practices; and (D) take or permit to be taken all
actions to enable the Borrower, through MOPC, to comply with the provisions of
this Agreement with regard to pertinent Road Safety Intervention under Part 2.2 of
the Project; and (ii) the obligation of the Borrower, through MOPC, to carry out,
on behalf of the corresponding Eligible Municipality, the pertinent Road Safety
Intervention works in accordance with the pertinent provisions of this Agreement
as applicable to said Part of the Project.
2. 
The Borrower, through MOPC, shall exercise its rights and carry out its
obligations under each Participation Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through MOPC,
shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any
Participation Agreement, or any provision thereof.
3. 
In case of any conflict between the terms of a Participation Agreement and those
of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
C. 
Operational Manual
1 .
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the
Borrower, through MOPC, shall, and shall cause the ANTSV and the Eligible
Municipalities (as the case may be), to carry out the Project in accordance with
the provisions of a manual (the Operational Manual), acceptable to the Bank,
which shall include, inter alia: (a) the list of CREMA Contracts and road sections
identified under Parts I and 2.1 of the Project, including the eligibility criteria for
selecting said road sections; (b) the organizational structure of the Project,
including the functions and responsibilities of UEP and of each of MOPC's
subordinated units referred to in Section I.A.2 of this Schedule; (c) the Project's
chart of accounts, internal controls, and budgeting, accounting and financial
reporting systems, and the semi-annual un-audited interim financial reports and
the format of the annual financial statements referred to in Section II. B.2 and B.3
of this Schedule, respectively; (d) the terms of reference for carrying out the
Project audits under Section II.B.3 of this Schedule; (e) the Project's flow of funds
structure; (f) the Project's administrative and procurement procedures; (g) the
standard environmental provisions to be included in the bidding documents for
investments to be carried out under the Project; (h) the Project indicators; (i) the
Safeguards Documents; (j) the eligibility criteria for the selection of Eligible
Municipalities; (k) the model Participation Agreement; and (1) the Road Safety
Intervention List.
-9-
2. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, terminate
or waive the Operational Manual or any of its provisions. In case of any conflict
among the terms of the Operational Manual and those of this Agreement, the terms
of this Agreement shall prevail.
D. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
E. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower, through MOPC, shall ensure that any works under the CREMA
Contracts are carried out in accordance with the ESMPs, IPP, and the RAP, all in
a manner acceptable to the Bank.
2. 
Without limitation to the provisions of this Section, and after the final detailed
designs of the works to be carried out under any CREMA Contract have been
completed, the Borrower shall: (a) prior to the carrying out of any works under any
said CREMA Contract, update the RAP in a manner acceptable to the Bank (which
updated RAP shall be consistent with the pertinent provisions of the Resettlement
Policy Framework); and (b) immediately thereafter, implement and/or caused to
be implemented, the updated RAP in accordance with its terms and in a manner
acceptable to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through MOPC, shall: (a) implement Part 2.2 of the Project in
accordance with the Environmental and Social Management Framework (EMSF),
including the procedures detailed in said EMSF for environmental screening,
evaluation, implementation and monitoring of the activities under said Part of the
Project, as well as the procedures for the preparation of environmental
management plans, when applicable; and (b) implement and/or cause to be
implemented the pertinent environmental management plan, in accordance with its
terms and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
4. 
The Borrower, through MOPC, shall: (a) implement the Project in accordance with
the Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF), including the procedures detailed in
said RPF for screening, evaluation, implementation and monitoring of the Project
activities, as well as the procedures for the preparation of resettlement action plans,
when applicable, and for the update of the RAP (as provided in paragraph 2 (a) of
this Section); and (b) thereafter implement and/or cause to be implemented the
pertinent resettlement action plan in accordance with its terms and in a manner
acceptable to the Bank.
-10-
5. 
The Borrower, through MOPC, shall: (a) implement Part 2.2 of the Project in
accordance with the Indigenous People Planning Framework (IPPF), including the
procedures detailed in said IPPF for screening, evaluation, implementation, and
monitoring of the activities under the Project, as well as procedures for the
preparation of indigenous peoples plans, when applicable; and (b) thereafter
implement and/or cause to be implemented the pertinent indigenous peoples plan
in accordance with its terms, and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
6. 
The Borrower, through MOPC, shall ensure that the contractors for civil works
under the Project include the obligation of the relevant contractor to comply with
the relevant Safeguard Documents, as applicable to such civil works commissioned
or carried out pursuant to said contract.
7. 
The Borrower, thorugh MOPC, shall ensure that the terms of reference for any
consultancy in respect of any Project activity shall be satisfactory to the Bank
following its review thereof and, to that end, such terms of reference shall dully
incorporate the requirements of the applicable Bank's Safeguards Policies, as
applied to the advice conveyed through such technical assistance.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank, as set forth in the
Operational Manual. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar
semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after
the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1 .
The Borrower, through MOPC, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the
General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower,
through MOPC, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of each Project Report
interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the pertinent semester,
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through MOPC, shall have its Financial Statements audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each
audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the
-11-
Borrower. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.
4. 
The Borrower, through MOPC, shall, not later than six months after the Effective
Date and prior to the commencement of each calendar year during Project
implementation thereafter, create, and thereafter maintain throughout each
calendar year of Project implementation, a specific budget line in order to keep
track of the expenditures incurred during Project implementation, including a
specific allocation for expenditures related to the implementation of the RAP under
the CREMA Contracts.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1 .
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1 .
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive
Bidding, subject to the provisions set forth in Section III.E below of this Schedule;
(b) Shopping; and (c) Direct Contracting.
-12-
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; (c) 
Least Cost Selection; 
(d) 
Selection based 
on Consultants'
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Procedures set
forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of
Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
E. 
Special Provisions.
Without limitation to the other provisions in Section III.A of this Schedule, the
following additional provisions shall also govern the procurement of goods, works,
non-consulting services and consultants' services under the Project (as the case
may be):
(a) 
procurement of goods, works, non-consulting services and consultants'
services (in respect of firms) shall be carried out using: (i) (A) standard
bidding documents (which bidding documents in respect of works shall
include, if applicable, a provision whereby the pertinent contractor must
comply with the pertinent provisions of the Safeguard Documents; and (B)
standard requests for quotations/proposals (as the case may be), which
shall all include, inter alia, a settlement of dispute provision and the
pertinent provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines; (ii) model bid
evaluation forms, and model quotations/proposals evaluation forms (as the
case may be); and (iii) model contract forms, all acceptable to the Bank;
(b) 
a two-envelope bidding procedure shall not be allowed in the procurement
of goods, works and Non-consulting Services;
(c) 
after the public opening of bids for goods, works and non-consulting
services, information relating to the examination, clarification and
evaluation of bids and recommendations concerning awards, shall not be
-13-
disclosed to bidders or other persons not officially concerned with this
process until the publication of contract award. In addition, bidders and/or
other persons not officially concerned with said process shall not be
allowed to review or make copies of other bidders' bids;
(d) 
after the public opening of consultants' proposals, information relating to
the examination, 
clarification 
and evaluation 
of proposals 
and
recommendations concerning awards, shall not be disclosed to consultants
or other persons not officially concerned with this process until the
publication of contract award (except as provided in paragraphs 2.23 and
2.30 of the Consultant Guidelines). In addition, consultants and/or other
persons not officially concerned with said process shall not be allowed to
review or make copies of other consultants' proposals;
(e) 
foreign bidders or foreign consultants shall not, as a condition for
submitting bids or proposals and/or for contract award: (i) be required to
be registered in Paraguay (except as provided in the standard bidding
documents referred to in paragraph (a) (i) (A) above); (ii) be required to
have a representative in Paraguay; and (iii) be required to be associated or
subcontract with Paraguayan suppliers, contractors or consultants;
(f) 
the invitations to bid, bidding documents, minutes of bid openings,
requests for expressions of interest and the pertinent summary of the
evaluation reports of bids and proposals of all goods, works, non-
consulting services and consultants' services procured by the Borrower,
through UEP, shall be published in the web page of the DNCP (Direccidn
Nacional de Contrataciones Pziblicas) in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
The bidding period shall be counted from the date of publication of the
invitation to bid or the date of the availability of the bidding documents,
whichever is later, to the date of bid opening;
(g) 
the provisions set forth in paragraphs 2.49, 2.50, 2.52, 2.53, 2.54 and 2.59
of the Procurement Guidelines shall also be applicable to contracts for
goods, works and non-consulting services procured under National
Competitive Bidding procedures;
(h) 
references to bidders in one or more specialized magazines shall not be
used by the Borrower, through UEP, in determining if the bidder in respect
of goods whose bid has been determined to be the lowest evaluated bid
has the capability and resources to effectively carry out the contract as
offered in the bid, as referred to in the provision set forth in paragraph 2.58
of the Procurement Guidelines. The provision set forth in paragraph 2.58
of the Procurement Guidelines (including the limitation set forth herein)
shall also be applicable to contracts for goods procured under National
Competitive Bidding procedures;
-14-
(i) 
witness prices shall not be used as a parameter for bid evaluation, bid
rejection or contract award;
(j) 
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids shall apply to
goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower in respect of contracts
for goods procured under International Competitive Bidding procedures;
(k) 
compliance by bidders with the norms issued by ISO with respect to any
given good procured under the Project shall not be used as parameter for
contract award;
(1) 
consultants shall not be required to submit bid or performance securities;
(m) 
contracts of goods, works and non-consulting services shall not be
awarded to the "most convenient" bid, but rather to the bidder whose bid
has been determined: (i) to be substantially responsive; and (ii) to offer the
lowest evaluated bid, provided that said bidder has demonstrated to the
Borrower, through UEP, to be qualified to perform the contract
satisfactorily; and
(n) 
the types of contracts described in Section IV of the Consultant Guidelines
shall be the only types of contracts to be used by the Borrower, through
UEP, in connection with the contracting of consultants' services provided
by a firm and to be financed with the proceeds of the Loan.
-15-
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised
from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant
to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
Catefzory 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non- 
99,490,000 
100%
consulting services,
consultants' services,
Operating Costs and
Training
(2) Land acquisition and cash 
260,000 
100%
compensation paid for
Resettlement related to the
implementation of the
RAP.
(3) Front-end Fee 
250,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
100,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the Signature Date.
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2024.
-16-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Principal Payment Date 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each May 15 and November 15 
1.90 %
Beginning on November 15, 2024
through May 15, 2028
Beginning on November 15,2028 
2.28 %
through May 15, 2033
On November 15, 2033 
2.20%
On May 15,2034 
2.28%
Beginning on November 15, 2034 
2.80 %
through November 15, 2038
Beginning on May 15, 2039 
1.70 %
through November 15, 2043
Beginning on May 15, 2044 
0.00 %
through November 15, 2044
Beginning on May 15,2045 
1.04 %
through November 15, 2050
On May 15, 2051 
2.88%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
-17-
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
-18-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"ANTSV" means Agencia Nacional de Trdnsito y Seguridad Vial, the Borrower's
National Traffic and Road Safety Agency, created pursuant to the Borrower's Law
No. 5016, dated May 16, 2014, and published in the Borrower's Official Gazette
on May 21, 2014.
3. 
"Bank's Safeguards Policies" means the Bank's operational policies and
procedures, set forth in the Bank's operational manual and identified as OP/BP
4.01, 4.04, 4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37, 7.50 and 7.60, as said manual is
published under www.WorldBank.org/opmanual.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
5. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
6. 
"CREMA Contract" means a multi-year contract entered into by the Borrower,
through MOPC, with a private sector contractor, which contract obligates the
private sector contractor to undertake all phases of road rehabilitation and
maintenance works and road safety intervention works under Parts I and 2.1 of the
Project, respectively, as a single package, from design and programming of the
works, through the execution of such works, with respect to an identified portion
of the Borrower-managed corresponding national paved road network and whose
remuneration is partially linked to road performance criteria.
7. 
"Department" means any of the Borrower's political subdivisions created pursuant
to article 159 of the Borrower's Constitution.
8. 
"Eligible Municipality" means a Borrower's municipality within a Targeted
Department which has met the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational
Manual to participate under Part 2.2 of the Project.
9. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "EMSF" means Marco
para el Manejo Ambiental y Social, the Borrower's framework dated May 6, 2016,
acceptable to the Bank and disclosed on May 12, 2016, which contains, inter alia,
the environmental protection measures in respect of the Project, including: (a)
measures for chance findings of physical cultural property; (b) guidelines for the
-19-
identification of existing environmental conditions and potential direct and indirect
environmental impacts resulting from the carrying out of the Project; (c)
guidelines for the carrying out of environmental assessments and the preparation
of environmental management plans, when applicable; (d) the recommendation of
mitigation measures for each negative impact identified; and (e) measures for
enhancing each identified positive impact; as said framework may be updated
and/or amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
10. 
"Environmental and Social Management Plans" 
or "ESMPs" means Plan de
Gesti6n Ambiental y Social: RN1 and Plan de Gestidn Ambiental y Social: RN3-8,
the Borrower's plans dated May 6, 2016, acceptable to the Bank, and disclosed on
May 12, 2016, setting forth the environmental and social management actions
applicable to activities to be carried out under the CREMA Contracts, including,
inter alia, programs and standards as well as provisions on communications and
management of citizens' feedback and claims and standards and specific mitigation
measures for the carrying out of rehabilitation and maintenance works.
11. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
12. 
"Indigenous Peoples' Planning Framework" or "IPPF" means Marco de
Planificaci6n Para Pueblos Indigenas, the Borrower's indigenous peoples
framework, dated May 6, 2016, acceptable to the Bank, and disclosed on May 12,
2016, setting forth the indigenous peoples policy framework applicable to all the
activities to be carried out under the Project and the basis and procedures to prepare
specific indigenous peoples' 
plans or related instruments during Project
implementation; as said framework may be updated and/or amended from time to
time with the agreement of the Bank.
13. 
"Indigenous Peoples Plan" or "IPP" means Plan de Pueblos Indigenas, the
Borrower's plan dated May 6, 2016, acceptable to the Bank, and disclosed on May
12, 2016, setting forth the indigenous peoples policy actions applicable to the
activities to be carried out under the CREMA Contracts.
14. 
"ISO" means International Organization for Standardization, an international-
standard-setting body composed of representatives from various national standards
organizations which issues world-wide proprietary industrial and commercial
standards for products.
15. 
"MOPC" means Ministerio de Obras Publicas y Comunicaciones, the Borrower's
Ministry of Public Works and Communications, or any successor thereto
acceptable to the Bank.
-20-
16. 
"Operating Costs" means reasonable recurrent expenditures, based on an annual
budget previously approved by the Bank, that would not have been incurred by the
Borrower, through MOPC, absent the Project, for Project administration and
supervision, including, inter alia, operation and maintenance of office equipment,
non-durable goods, vehicle rental, fuel, travel costs and per diem.
17. 
"Operational Manual" means the Borrower's manual, dated May 20, 2016, referred
to in Section I.C. I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as said manual may be updated
and/or amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
18. 
"Participation Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in Section
I.B. 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
19. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
20. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
May 13, 2016 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
21. 
"Resettlement" means the impact of an involuntary taking of land under the
Project, which taking causes affected persons to have their: (a) standard of living
adversely affected; or (b) right, title or interest in any house, land (including
premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset
acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (c) access to productive
assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (d) business, occupation,
work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily or
permanently.
22. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" or "RAP" means the Borrower's Plan de Mudanzas
(Malla Norte-Rutas Nacionales 3 y 8) y Malla Sur (Ruta Nacional 1)), dated May
6, 2016, acceptable to Bank, and disclosed on May 12, 2016 in the web site
http://www.mopc.gov.py/upgp-bm-ol. defining protocols and procedures for the
provision of resettlement assistance in connection with the involvement of
Resettlement under the CREMA Contracts; as such plan may be revised, updated
or supplemented, from time to time, with the Bank's prior written approval.
23. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means Marco de Politica de
Reasentamiento, the Borrower's framework, dated May 6, 2016, acceptable to the
Bank, and disclosed on May 12, 2016, outlining general implementation
procedures, mitigation measures and monitoring procedures for Resettlement
under the Project, including the procedures for preparation and implementation of
resettlement plans, when applicable, and for the update of the RAP, as said
-21-
framework may be amended from time to time with the Bank's prior written
approval.
24. 
"Road Safety Intervention" means any road safety improvement interventions
under Part 2.2 of the Project and included in the Road Safety Interventions List.
25. 
"Road Safety Interventions List" means the positive list of eligible Road Safety
Interventions included in the Operational Manual, as the same may be amended
from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank.
26. 
"Safeguard Documents" means the Environmental and Social Management
Framework, the Environmental and Social Management Plan, the Indigenous
Peoples' Planning Framework, the Indigenous Peoples' Plan, the Resettlement
Policy Framework and Resettlement Action Plan, as the same may be amended,
supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time with the prior written
agreement of the Bank.
27. 
"Signature Date" means the latest of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed the Loan Agreement and such definition applies to all references to
"the date of the Loan Agreement" in the General Conditions.
28. 
"Targeted Department" means any of the following Departments: San Pedro,
Caaguaz6, Canindey-6, Misiones and Itapua and/or any other Department (s) that
the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time.
29. 
"Training" means expenditures (other than those for consultants' services)
incurred by the Borrower, through MOPC, as approved by the Bank on the basis
of an annual budget acceptable to the Bank, to finance reasonable transportation
costs and per-diem of trainees and trainers (if applicable), training registration fees,
and rental of training facilities and equipment, all under Part 4 of the Project.
30. 
"UEP" means Unidad Ejecutora del Proyecto, the Project executing unit,
organized within MOPC's Roads Directorate, established pursuant to MOPC's
Ministerial Resolution No. 523 of September 9, 2004 (as amended on August 24,
2005 by MOPC Ministerial Resolution No. 593 and on February 11, 2015,
pursuant to MOPC's Ministerial Resolution No. 187), and referred to in Section
I.A. I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, or any successor thereto acceptable to the
Bank.
-22-
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. 
The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
-23-
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any
prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of
a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable
upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any
Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
