I 
I I 
i 
.il 
·~ 
I 
~ 
i 
r 
:I 
) 
! 
I 
i 
t 
~ 
I 
I 
OFFICIAL 
DOCUMENTS 
LOAN NUMBER 8616-CN 
Loan Agreement 
(BuDding a Modem Fiscal System Technical Assistance Project) 
between 
PE()PLE'S REPUBUC OF CHINA 
and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
Dated 
M~ 
~I 
,2016 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8616-CN 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
Agreement dated 
~~I· 
, . 2016, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF 
CIDNA ( .. Borrower'') and 
~TIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank''). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
. 
. 
ARTICLE I- GENERAL CONDmONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditio~ (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement; provided, however, that each reference in the General 
Conditions to the Project Implementing Entity shall be deemed to be a reference to a 
Subproject Implementing Agency; and provided further, that each reference in the 
General Conditions to the Project Agreement shall be deemed to be inapplicable. 
I .02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE ll -LOAN 
2.0 1. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of twenty two million Dollars ($22,000,000), as such 
amount may be converted from time· to time through a Currency Conversion in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ( .. Loan"), to assist in 
financing the project descriPed in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ( .. Project''). 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge. payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.2S%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance. 
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a 
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable 
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
· Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Bahince remains 
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the 
interest payable by the Borrowet shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 
(e) ofthe General Conditions .. 
2.06. 
_The Payment Dates are April IS and October IS in each year. 
-2-
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the·amortization 
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.08. 
(a) 
(b) 
(c) 
2.09. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan. in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Gurrency; (ii) a change of the 
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or 
vice versa; or (B) !fall or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstaDding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and 
the Variable Spread"to1l Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the 
Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn aiJ.d outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a 
Variable Rate bas~ on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the 
Variable Rate or .the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
·principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of 
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference 
-Rate. 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph {a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conveision", as defined in the 
General Conditions, and sball be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article N of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested thirt the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and pay to itself the ·amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section N of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit {as 
said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b){iii) of this Section), the 
Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of one half of one percent 
(0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess Exposure Amount {as defined in sub-
paragraph (b )(i) of this Section) for each said day ("Exposure Surcharge',. The 
Exposure Surcharge (if any) sball be payable semi-annually in arrears on each 
Payment Date. 
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set forth 
below: 
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during which 
the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit, the product of: 
(A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the ratio of all {or, if the 
Bank so determines, a portion) of the Loan to the aggregate amount of all 
(ii) 
(iii) 
-3-
(or the equivalent portions) of the loans made by the Bank to the 
Borrower and to other borrowers guaranteed by the Borrower that are 
also subject to an exposure surcharge, as said excess and ratio are 
reasonably determined from time to time by the Bank. 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the Bank's 
financial exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded, would subject the 
Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined from time to time by the 
Bank. 
. 
~ 
"Total ~e" 
means for any given day, the Bank's total financial 
exposuife to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by the Bank. 
ARTICLE :DI-PROJECT 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the 
Borrower sba1.l carry out the Project through MOF and the Subproject lmplem~nting 
Agencies in accordance with the provisions of Article V of~ General Conditions. 
. 
. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 ofthis Agreement, and except as 
the Borrower and the: Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV- EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that the 
. Implementation Agre~ent has been duly executed on behalf of MOF and the CDM 
C~er. 
· 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement. 
ARTICLE V'- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister ofFinance. 
5.02. 
Tiie Borrower~s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
Sanlihe 
· 
Beijing 100820 
People's Republic o(China 
Facsimile: 86-10-6855-2740 
-4-
5.03.. 
The Bank's Address is: 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Cable address: 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 
Telex: 
248423(MCI) or 
641i5~CI) 
Facsimile: 
1-202-477-6391 
AGREED at Beijing, People's Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written. 
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CIDNA 
Name: ---'8,~~-'----'/-IP-+-f.;;_~-=;..:._---
Title: 
Co~lr7 £>,~-h...> ~~ 
-5-
SCHEDULEl 
Project Description 
The objective of the Project is. to inform the design and implementation of the central 
government's fiscal reform program and to improve the government's capacity in public financial 
management. 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part A 
Key Elements Y,r China's Public Finance System 
1. 
Carrying out of Subprojects consisting of, inter alia, strategic plans, sectoral research, 
technical studies, implementation rep~, staff exchangeS, training and workshops, all 
relating to informing policy formulation and implementation for the strengthening of the 
Borrower's public finance system. 
2. 
Provision of support to the PMO, SIAs and the CDM Center to enhance their 
management capacity through training, and the provision of consulting services,· 
including :Project management support and monitoring and evaluation. 
Part B 
Fiscal Policy and Sustainable Development 
Carrying out of Subprojects consisting of, inter alia, strategic plans, sectoral research, 
technical studies, training and workshops, and development of analytical capacity and 
tools, all relating to increasing the Bo~wer' s overall capacity to make fiscal policy more 
effective and analyze linkages between economic growth and fiscal policy. 
-6-
SCBEDULEl 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
A. 
Operations Manual 
1. 
The Borrower; through the PMO, shall carry out the Project, and shall cause the SIAs to 
carry out the Subprojects, in accordance with tl,.e Operations Manual in a timely and 
efficient manner satisfactory !Jto the Bank. The Borrower shall not amend, suspend, or 
waive said Operations Manu81 or any provision or schedule thereo(, without the prior 
written concurrence of tlie Ba:ilk.• In the event of any inconsistency between the terms of 
the Operations Manual and those of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement 
shall preVail. 
B. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
The Borrower, through MOF, shall maintain the PMO throughout the implementation of 
the Project and assign qualified staff in adequate. numbers, funds and other resources as 
shall be necessary to enable the PMO to provide overall coordination, management, 
monitoring and reporting, and implementation of the Project, undertake the review and 
selection of proposed · Subprojects, and monitor, evaluate and supervise the 
implementation ·or Subprojects by SIAs. 
2. 
To assist the PMO with the day-to-day implementation of the Project (including 
procurement, financial inanagement, accounting, contract management, monitoring and 
reporting), the Borrower, through MOF, shall enter into an agreement ("Implementation 
Agreement") with the CDM Center, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bait.k:, 
which shall include those set forth in the Annex to this Schedule. 
3. 
The Borrower, through MOF, shall exercise its rights· under the 'Implementation 
Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not 
assign. amend, abrogate or waive the Implementation Agreement or any provision 
thereof. 
4. 
In the case of any inconsistency between the provisions of the Implementation 
Agreement and the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall 
prevail. 
5. 
The Borrower, through the PMO, shall cause each SIA to appoint and maintain until the 
completion of the relevant Subproject or Subprojects, a Subproject Management Team at 
the SIA level, headed by a qualified officer and assigned staff in adequate numbers to 
enable the SIA to design proposals for and implement its respective Stibproject(s). 
-7-
C. 
Subprojeds 
L 
All Subprojects shall support the overall development objective of the Project. ·All 
Subproject proposals shall be duly prepared and submitted to the PMO by SIAs, selected 
and approved by the PMO, and furnished to the Bank for its no-objection, following the 
eligibility criteria, procedures and teehnical requirements set forth to that effect in the 
Operations Manual. The Borrower, through the PMO, shall ensure that no activity under 
any Subproject is commenced until the proposal for such Subproject has received the 
Bank's prior no-objection in accordance with the foregoing requirements. 
2. 
To assist in the carry:ini out of Subprojects, the Borrower, through the PMO, shall make 
the proceeds of the Loan·· available to the SIAs under arrangements satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
,: .. 
3. 
The ·Borrower, through the PMO, shaii, and shall cause each SIA to, obtain the Bank's 
prior no-objection for changing any of the SIA's Subproject design and/or 
implementation ammgements, as applicable. The Borrower, through the PMO, shall 
promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would adversely affect the carrying out of 
a Subproject and shall promptly take action, satisfactory to the Bank, to address such 
situation. 
4. 
The Borrower shall cause the PMO artd each SIA,. as applicable, to ensure that every 
Subproject to be supported under the Project is carried out under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank, and that such termS of reference are consistent with, and pay due 
attention to, the Bank's Safeguards Policies. 
D. 
Anti-Corruption 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried ·out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. · 
Section D. 
Project Monitoring. Reoorting and Evaluation 
A. 
Project Reports 
L 
The Borrower shall, through the PMO, monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project 
and prepare Project· Reports fu accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the 
General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Operations Manual. 
Each Project Report shall cover· the period of one calendar semester, and shall be 
:fi.nnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days ·after the end of the period 
covered by such report. 
2. 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph A.l above, the Borrower shall, through 
the PMO, prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and finnish to the 
Bank no later than June 30, 2019, a consolidated mid-term review report for the Project, 
summarizing the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities carried out from the 
inception of the Project, and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient cotDpletion of the Project and to further the objectives thereof. 
-8-
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions ofPart A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Bank, not later than forty-five (45) days after the end ofeach calendar 
semester, interim unaudited fmancial reports for the Project covering the semester, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
-
3. 
The Borrower shall have~i_its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the '~od of one (I) fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
(6) months after the end of such period. The Borrower shall make the atidited Financial 
Statements publicly available in a timely fashion and in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
Section m. 
Procurement 
A. 
General 
1. 
G:oods and Non-consulting Services. All goods and non-consulting services required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in 
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and _with the provi~ions of this Section. 
2. 
Consultants' Services. All C<;)nsultants' services required for·the Project and.to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this. Section. 
3. 
Def"mitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to 
the corresponding method described in Sections n and ill of the Procurement Guid(ilines, 
or Sections n, ill, IV an~ V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. . 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, -goods and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services. 
The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for 
procurement of goods and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in the 
Procmement Plan: (a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions 
set forth in the box below; (b) Direct Contracting; (c) Shopping; and (d) Framework 
Agreement. 
., 
') 
-9-
The procedures applicable to the procurement of goods, works, and non-consulting 
services under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding 
(''NCB,) shall be the open tendering procedures set forth in the Borrower's Law on 
Tendering and Bidding promulgated by its Order No. 21 dated August 30, 1999; 
· provided, however, that such procedures shall be subject to the provisions of Section I, 
Paragraphs 3.3 and. 3.4 of Section m, and Appendix 1 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and the additional provisions in the following. In tb.e event of a ·conflict between the 
Borrower's procedures and these NCB Procedure Modifications, the latter shall 
govern. 
(i) 
Eligibility to participate in a procurement process and to be awarded a Bank-
financed C()ntract shall be as ·defined under Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines; accordingly, no bidder or potential bidder shall be declared 
ineligible for such ooritract for reasons other than those provided in Section I 
of the ProCurement Guidelines. No restriction: based on nationality of bidders 
and/or origin of goods shall apply, and foreign bidders shall be allowed to 
participate in NCB without application of restrictive conditions. 
(ii) 
All invitations to prequalify or bid shall be advertised in a national newspaper 
of wide circulation in the Borrower's countrY, or on a widely used website I 
electronic portal with free national and international access acceptable to the 
Bank except for goods or non-consulting services contracts that are estirilated 
to cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, or works contracts that are 
estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 each, which may be advertised in a 
provincial daily newspaper. Such advertisement shall be made in sufficient 
time for prospective bidders to obtain prequali.flcation or bidding documents 
and prepare and submit their responses. In any event, a minimum of thirty 
. (30) days shall be given to bidders between the date of such advertisement (or 
the date of availability of bidding documents, whichever is later) and the 
deadline for the submission of bids, and the advertisement and bidding 
documents shall specify the deadline for the submission of bids. In the case of 
such advertisement on a website I electronic portal, the· notice shall remain 
readily accessible nationhlly and internationally until at least the deadline .for 
the submission of bids. Potential bidders shall be allowed to inspect and 
purchase bidding documents at any time prior to the . deadline for the 
submission of bids. 
(iii) 
Standard Bidding Documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used. 
(iv) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of evaluating the 
qualification of each bidder shall be specified in detail in the bidding 
documents. 
(v) 
Prequalificanon procedures and documents acceptable to the Bank shall be 
used for· large, complex and/or specialized works. · Verification of the 
information upon which a bidder was prequalified, including current 
commitments, shall be carried out at the time of contract award, along with the 
- 10-
bidder's capability with respect to personnel and equipment. All bidders that 
meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-qualification documents shall 
be allowed to bid, and there shall be no limit on the number of pre-qualified 
bidders. Where pre-qualification is not used, the qualification of the bidder 
who is recommended for award of contract shall ·be assessed by post-
qualification, applying the qualification criteria stated in the bidding 
documents. 
. .. 
(vi) 
Registration shall not be used to assess bidders' qualifications. A bidder shall 
not be required to register as a condition for inspecting or purchasing bidding 
documents, subffiitting its bid or receiving contract award. 
A bidder 
determined to be the lowest evaluated responsive bidder, shall be given 
reasonable opporti'.ini~ of registering (if required) before contract signing 
without any let or hindrance. Bidding shall not be restricted to any particular 
class ofcontractors, and non-classified contractors shall also be eligible to bid. 
(vii) 
No margins of preference of any sort shall be given to bidders, such as on the 
basis of their location, place of incotporation, 9r affinity with the geographical 
area in which the Project activities will take place. 
(viii) 
All bidders who are awarded contracts for works and single-responsibility 
contracts shall be required to provide performance secmity in an amount 
SUfficient to protect the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity I Entities, 
as the case may be, in case of breach of contract by the contractor, and the 
bidding documents shall specify the required form and amount of such security 
and any other potential damages for such breach. 
(ix) 
Bidders shall be allowed to submit bids by mail or in person. 
(x) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an opportunity 
to be present (either in person or through their representatives) at the time of 
bid opening, but bidders shall not be required to be present at the bid opening. 
(xi) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding documents and 
quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the form of pass/fail 
requirer:D.ents. 
· 
(xii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price exceeds any cost 
estimate or falls outside any margin or bracket of prices or average bids 
established by the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity I Entities, as 
the case may be. Rejection of all bids or re-bidding shall not be allowed solely 
because the number of bids is less than three (3), and rejection of all bids or 
rebidding shall.nottake place without the Bank's prior written agreement. 
(xiii) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder, that 
is, the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of capability and resources 
and whose bid has been determined: (A) to be substantially responsive to the 
bidding documents; and (B) to offer $e lowest evaluated cost. The winning 
bidder shall not be required, as a condition of awa.r<i._ to undertake 
- 11-
responsibilities for work or to assume other obligations not stipulated in the 
bidding documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally submitted. No 
negotiations shall be permitted except with the Bank's no-objection. 
(xiv) 
In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding document and 
contract shall include provisions stating the Bank's policy to sanction firms or 
individuals found to have engaged in fraud and corruption as set forth iti the · 
Procurement Guidelines. 
(xv) 
In accordance with the Procurement GUidelines, each bidding document and 
contract shall include provisions stating the Bank's policy with respect to 
inspection ancf audit of accouirts, records and other documents relating to the 
submission o£bids and contract performance. 
(xvi) 
Government-owned enterprises in the Borrower's countri may be permitted .to 
bid or submit a proposal of goods, works, or non-consulting services if they 
can establish that they: (A) are legally and financially autonomous; (B) operate 
under commercial law; and (C) are not a dependent agency of the agency 
conducting the procurement. 
(xvii) Matters such as subcontracting, joint venture relationships and assignment of 
contract shall be handled in accordance with the bidding documents. 
(xviii) The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall bC published in the 
national or provincial press (as provided under paragraph (ii) .above) or official 
gazette or a free and open-access website and shall identifY: (A) the name of 
each bidder who submitted a bid; (B) bid prices as read out at bid opening; (C) 
the name of the bidder, and the evaluated price, of each bid that was evaluated; 
(D) the names ofbtdders whose bids were either rejected as non-responsive or 
not meeting qualification criteria, or not evaluated, with the reasons therefor; 
and (E) the name of the winning bidder and the final total Contract price, as 
well as the duration and summary scope of the contract. Such publication shall 
be within two (2) weeks of receiving the Bank's no-objection to the award 
recommendation for contracts subject to the Bank's prior review, and within 
two (2) weeks of the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity's award 
decision for contracts subject to the Bank's post review. 
The bidding 
docUm.ents shall disclose the newspaper in which and I or the electronic means 
by which the information on contract award will be published. 
(xix) 
The Borrower or the Project Implementing Eritity I Entities, as the case may 
be, shall have in place an effective and independent protest mechanism for 
bidders to protest. The bidding documents shall provide the professional title 
and address of the official to whom such protests should be sent. 
- 12-
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Coosultants' Services 
1. 
Quatity and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality 
and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement· of Consultants' Services. The following methods, 
other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of 
consultants' services for those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-
based Selection; (b) Selectipn Based on the Consultants' Qualifications; (c) Procedures 
set forth in· paragraphs 5.2 ·and 5.3 of the Consultant. Guidelines for the Selection of 
Individual Consultants; (d): stngle-source procedures for the Selection of Individual 
Consultants; and (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms. 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's 
Prior Review. 'All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
A. 
General 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by 
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such inst:rU.Ctions ), to 
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category''), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligt.ble 
Expenditures in each Category. 
· 
\ 
I 
.\ 
J 
- 13-
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures 
Allocated 
to be financed 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) 
Goods, 
consultants' 
21,945,000 
1000/0 
services, 
non-Consulting 
services, 
Training 
and 
Incremental Operating Costs 
-
(2) Front-end Fee 
55,000 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 
2.03 
of 
this 
Agreement in accordance with 
.. 
Section 2.07 (b) of the General 
.. 
Conditions 
(3) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount 
due 
pursuant 
to 
Interest Rate Collar premium 
Section 2.08 
(c) of this 
Agreement 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
22,000,000 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Wrthdrawal Period 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this ·section, no withdrawal shall be made 
for paylnents made prior to the date of this Agreenu:nt. 
2. 
The Closing Date is July 31, 2021. 
. - 14-
ANNEX 
to SCHEDULE 2 
Principal Terms and Conditions of the 
·Implementation Agreement 
For the pmposes of Section I.B.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the Implementation 
Agreement to be entered into by MOF and the CDM Center .shall reflect, inter alia, the following 
terms and conditions: 
1. 
For. the pmpose of assisting the Borrower with the carrying out of the Project, the · 
Borrower, through MOF, s~.make available to the CDM Center a part of the proceeds 
of the Loan received by ~e ijorrower pursuant to Article II of the Loan: Agreement, 
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. 
2. 
MOF shall have the right to suspend or terminate the right of the CDM Center to use 
and/or receive the proceeds of the Loan, upon failure by the CDM Center to perform any 
or" its obligations under the Implementation Agreement. 
3. 
The CDM Center shall undertake to: 
(a) 
assist the Borrower, thro~gb. MOF, in the carrying out of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordailce with appropriate management and 
financial practices, and social and environmental standards acceptable to the 
Bank, including the terms of the Operations Manual, the Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines apPlicable to recipients of LoaD proceeds other than the Borrower, 
and to provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities and other resources 
required for this purpose; and 
(b) 
maintain, throughout Project implementation, staff in adequate numbers and with 
terms of reference and qualifications acceptable to the Bank, to be responsible for 
assisting in the implementation of the Project. 
4. 
The COM Center shall undertake, and assist the SIAs as applicable, to procure the goods 
and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Section m of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and to utilize such goods 
and services exclusively in the carrying out of the Project. 
5. 
The CDM Center shall undertake to enable the Bank and the Borrower, through MOF, to 
inspect such sites, relevant records and documents as the Bank and/or the Borrower, 
through MOF, shall deem necessary. 
6. 
The COM Center shall undertake, throughout Project implementation, to: 
(a) 
(b) 
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect its operations and financial 
condition in accordance with sound accounting practices; · 
have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses 
and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in ~ccordance with 
- 15-
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(c) 
furnish to the Bank and the Borrower, through MOF, as soon as available, but in 
any case not later than six (6) months after the end of each fiscal year of the 
Borrower: (i) certified copies of its financial statements and accounts for such 
year as so audited; (ii) an opinion on srich statements by the auditors referred to 
in paragraph 6 (b) above,, in such scope I!;Dd detail as the Bank and/or the 
Borrower, through MOF, shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) all such other 
information concerning said records, accounts and financial statements, as well 
as the audit tb,freof, as the Bank and/or the Borrower, through MOF, shall 
reasonably requ~ and 
(d) 
assist the PMO to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with· 
the performance indicators agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof. 
~ 16 ~ 
SCBEDULE3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
. The following ·table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Oate ("Installment Share''). If the proceeds of the LOan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount ·of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for dach Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount t!l be 
adjusted, as necessary, to d~!it any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
15 October 2021 
1.10 %" 
15 April2022 
1.13% 
15 October 2022 
1.16% 
15 April2023 
1.18% 
15 October 2023 
1.21% 
15 April 2024 
1.24% 
15 October 2024 
1.28% 
15 APril 2025 
1.31% 
15 October 2025 
1.34% 
15 April2026 
1.37% 
15 October 2026 
1.41% 
15 April 2027 
1.44% 
15 October 2027 
1.48% 
15 April2028 
1.52% 
15 October 2028 
1.55% 
15 April2029 
1.59% 
15 October 2029 
1.63% 
15 Apri12030 
1.67.% 
15 October 2030 
1.72% 
15 April 2031 
1.76% 
15 October2031 
1.80% 
15 April2032 
1.85% 
15 October2032 
1.89% 
15 April 2033 
1.94% 
15 October2033 
1.99% 
15 April 2034 
2.04% 
15 October 2034 
2.09% 
15 April2035 
2.14% 
15 October 2035 
2.20% 
15 April2036 
2.25% 
- 17-
15 October 2036 
2.3.1% 
15 Apri12037 
2.36% 
15 October 2037 
2.42% 
15 April2038 
2.48% 
15 October 2038 
2.55% 
1 5 April 2039 
2.61% 
15. October 2039 
2.68% 
15 April2040 
~ 
2.74% 
IS October 2040 
2.81% 
IS Apri1204I 
2.88% 
IS October 2041 
'*· 
2.95% 
IS Apri12042 
3.03% 
IS October 2042 
3.10% 
I5 Apri12043 · 
3.I8% 
IS October 2043 
3.26% 
15_ April_ 2044 . 
3.34% 
15 October2044 
3.42% 
15 April2045 
3.60% 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be detennined as follows: 
3. 
(a) 
To tbe extent that any proc~ of the Loan have been Withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of sueh withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original 
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amoun~ repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan ·withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal· Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and 
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
- 18-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of 
such billing system. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions ofparagraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount·in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amotmts of principal in 
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the 
Conversion Guidelines, the ~change rate component of the Screen Rate. 
,: .. 
. 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
- 19-
APPENDIX 
Section I. Definitions 
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" m,eans the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", 
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011. 
2. 
"Bank's Safeguards Policies" means the operational policies and procedures for financing 
of ~elopment projec~ by the Bank at. the date of this Agreement. and relating to 
Envrronmental Assessment, Natural Habitats, Pest Management, Indigenous Peoples 
(Ethnic Minorities), Physical Cultural Re59urces, Involuntary Resettlement, Forests, 
Safety of Dam, Projects on International Waterways, and Projects in Disputed Areas, as 
published under www .WorldBank.orWomnanual. 
3 ~ 
"Category'' means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
4. 
"CDM Center'' means the China Clean Development Mechanism fund Management 
Center, a Public Service Unit Corporation operating under the People's Republic of 
China Organization Code, Organization code no. 71782033-X, which shall be responsible 
for assisting the PMO with the day-to-day implementation of tlie Project. 
5. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers" 
dated January 2011 (revised July 2014). 
6. 
"General Conditions" means the "lnternational Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012. 
7. 
"Implementation Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower, through MOF, and the CDM Center pursuant to Section I.B.2 of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, as the same may be amen~ from time to time with the prior written 
concurrence of the Bank, and such term includes all schedules supplemental to said 
a~ment. 
· 
8. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" J,11CanS the reasonable costs incurred by the PMO and the 
CDM Center for pwposes of Project management and implementation, on account of 
office supplies and consumables, utilities, bank charges, communications, ma8s media 
and printing services, interpretation and translation services, vehicle rental, operation and 
maintenance, and insurance, building and equipment maintenance, local transportation, 
domestic travel, lodging, and subsistence allowances, salaries of contractual and 
temporary staff, but excluding.· salaries and any salary supplements of members of the 
Borrower's civil service. 
9. 
''Ministry of Finance" and the acron}rm "MOF' mean the Borrower's Ministry of 
Finance, or any successor thereto. 
-20-
10. 
"Operations Manual" means the Borrower's manual prepared on March 28, 2016, 
acceptable to the Bank, and to be formally issued by MOF no later than the Effective 
Date, providing, inter alia, for: (a) the institutional, implementation, supervision, 
monitoring and evaluation and reporting arrangements for the Project; (b) the eligibility 
and selection criteria, applicable norms and regulations, technical specifications and other 
implementation aspects of Subprojects; and (c) implementation guidelines for various 
Project activities, including financial management, procurement and disbursement 
aspects, as such manual may be revised from time to time with ·the prior written 
concurrence of the Bank; and such term includes all -schedules supplemental to said 
manual. 
11. 
"Procurement Guidelines"'m~ the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and 
Non-consulting Serviees ~de_t mRD Loan8 and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank 
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014). 
12. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated March 
25, 2016 and referred to in paragraph LIS of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 
1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in 
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs .. 
13. 
''PrOject Management Office" and the acronym ''PMO" ~ean the office established by 
the Borrower within its Ministry of Finance, comprising members of MOF's Policy 
Research Department and Department of International Economic and ·Financial 
Cooperation, and to be maintained according to the provisions of Section I.B.l of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which shall be responsible for the overall coordinatio~ 
management, monitoring and reporting, and implementation of the Project, and any 
successor thereto. 
14. 
"Subproject" means a technical assistance set of activities to be designed-and carried out 
under the Project by a Subproject hnplementing Agency in accordanc~ with the criteria 
set forth in this Agreement and the Operations Manual, with the objective of erihancing 
institutional capacity building at the national level for the adoption and implementation of 
sound· reform and development strategies, ·policies and implementation plans in selected 
thematic areas, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and the term 
"Subprojects" means, collectively, all Subprojects. . 
15. 
"Subproject Implementing Agency" and the acronym "SIA'' mean a department or unit of 
MdF, any of the Borrower's ~ther ministries or departments, and other public agencies or 
entities as agreed with the Bank, which is responsible for iinplementing one or more 
Subprojects; and the term "Subproject Implementing Agencies" and the acronym "SIAs" 
means, collectively, all such implementing agencies. 
16. 
"Subproject Management Team" means each of the teams to be appointed and 
maintained in each SIA pursuant to Section I.B.S of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
17. 
"Training'' means the costs of training activities under the Project, based on annual work 
plans and budgets approved by the Bank, and attributable to seminars, workshops, 
scholarships, secondment programs, and domestic and overseas study tours, along with 
travel and subsistence allowances for training participants, services of trainers, rental of 
-21-
training facilities, preparation and reproduction of training materials, and ~ther activities 
directly related to course,preparation and implementation, but excluding salaries and any 
salary supplements of members of the Borrower's civil service. 
. .. 
