Off 1CIAL.
DOCUMENOTS
LOAN NUMBER 8580-BR
Loan Agreement
(Bahia Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project - 2nd phase -
Programa de Restauraqdo e ManutenCdo de Rodovias Estaduais da Bahia -
PREMAR -2-Etapa)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF BAHIA
Dated 
/7 
3 
, 201L
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8580-BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
.
-1 
, 20 1C, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUC 
ON AD DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") and STATE OF
BAHIA ("Borrower"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred million Dollars
($200,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower's Representative for purposes
of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is
the Secretary of Infrastructure.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure
Limit (as said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of
this Section), the Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of
one half of one percent (0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess
Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for
each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if any)
shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set
forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during
which the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit,
the product of: (A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the
ratio of all (or, if the Bank so determines, a portion) of the Loan
to the aggregate amount of all (or the equivalent portions) of the
loans made by the Bank to the Borrower, the Guarantor and to
other borrowers guaranteed by the Guarantor that are also subject
to an exposure surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably
determined from time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the Bank's
financial exposure to the Guarantor which, if exceeded, would
subject the Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined from
time to time by the Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total
financial exposure to the Guarantor, as reasonably determined by
the Bank.
2.07. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
2.08. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.09. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time, in each case with the prior no objection of
the Guarantor through the Secretariat of National Treasury of the
Guarantor's Ministry of Finance, request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
-2-
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall carry out the Project through SEINFRA, with the assistance of
the following Participating Entities, as described below:
(a) 
SEFAZ and AGERBA for Part 2.2 of the Project;
(b) 
SEPLAN for Part 3 of the Project; and
(c) 
DETRAN, the Borrower's Public Security Secretariat and the Borrower's
Secretariat of Health for Part 4 of the Project, all in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
-3 -
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following, namely that the Loan has
been validly registered by the Guarantor's Central Bank.
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Governor.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
3a Avenida, 390, Centro Administrativo da Bahia,
Cep 41745-005
Salvador, Bahia
Brazil
Phone: 55-71- 31156307
With copies to:
Secretaria da Fazenda - SEFAZ
Avenida Luiz Viana Filho, 2 Avenida, no. 260, CAB
Salvador - BA, 41.745-003
Brazil
Phone: (55-71) 3118.1330
Secretaria de Infraestrutura - SEINFRA
4 Avenida, 440 CAB
Salvador - BA, 41.745000
Brazil
Phone: (55-71) 3115 85 05
Minist6rio do Planejamento, Orgamento e Gestdo
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Esplanada dos Minist6rios, Bloco "K" - 50 andar
Brasilia - DF, 70040-906,
Brazil
Facsimile: (55-61) 2020-5006
-
4 
-Z
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at 
ry) 
& 
e 
r 
fas of the
day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
A 
orized Representative
STATE OF BAHIA
By
Authorized Repre 
tive
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to enhance, in a sustainable fashion, road
accessibility and safety in selected regions of the Borrower's territory.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1 - Institutional strengthening
1.1. 
New options for road financing
Provision of support to SEINFRA to explore new options for road sector financing,
including the carrying out of studies on, inter alia: (i) setting-up a self-standing road
maintenance fund in the Borrower's territory; (ii) exploring possibilities for private sector
financing of transport infrastructure; and (iii) exploring opportunities of land-value capture
stemming from the valorization of transport infrastructure public right-of-way.
1.2. 
Road Asset Management
Provision of support to improve the Borrower's road asset management, including, inter
alia: (i) operationalizing the SEINFRA/SIT's Pavement Management System, including
carrying out surveys of the Borrower's highway pavement condition and traffic; (ii)
designing and operationalizing automatic traffic counting stations; (iii) designing and
operationalizing a state-wide automatic weighing system for heavy vehicles; (iv)
implanting a state-wide kilometric mark-points system, for more precise location of traffic
crashes and other events; (v) geo-referencing the Borrower's right-of-way asset; and (vi)
setting up a database of the Borrower's geological conditions and potential quarries for
road construction and rehabilitation.
1.3. 
Road administration efficiency
Provision of support for the setting-up and operationalization of SEINFRA/SIT, including,
inter alia: (i) defining its mission, monitoring framework, processes and required
resources; 
(ii) 
training and capacity building for SEINFRA/SIT technical and
administrative staff; and (iii) support Project implementation in specific areas, namely on
road safety, socio-environmental management and engineering.
1.4. 
Logistics planning
Provision of support for carrying out studies and surveys to, inter alia: (i) update the
Borrower's transport and logistics master plan; (ii) promote railway transport in the
Borrower's territory; (iii) identify maritime ports development opportunities in the
-6-
Borrower's territory; (iv) analyze the Borrower's waterway development; and (v) plan
urban logistics and mobility in the Itabuna-Ilheus conurbation.
1.5. 
Transport investment impact assessment
Provision of support to carry out surveys and studies to assess the impact of transport
infrastructure investment in the Borrower's territory, including, inter alia: (i) establishing
a tool to inform the decision-making process for transport infrastructure investment; (ii)
setting up an appraisal model aiming at quantifying the wider impact of transport
investments and policies in the Borrower's territory; (iii) defining the methodology and
undertaking the impact evaluation of local roads improvement on rural communities
focused on the rural areas addressed through Part 3 of the Project; and (iv) carrying out
yearly road users surveys to reach citizen feedback on the Borrower's highways condition
and services.
Part 2 - Performance-based State Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance
2.1. 
CREMA Contracts
Carrying out of rehabilitation and maintenance works through CREMA Contracts on about
1,685 kilometers of identified sections of the Borrower's paved highways, including, inter
alia, road rehabilitation and maintenance.
2.2. 
CREMA-PPP Contracts
Carrying out of rehabilitation and maintenance works through CREMA-PPP Contracts or
CREMA Contracts on about 685 km of identified sections of the Borrower's paved
highways including, inter alia, road rehabilitation and maintenance.
Part 3 - Feeder Road Improvement
Provision of support to improve road accessibility in the Borrower's territory, through the
carrying out of works for the elimination of about 900 critical spots on selected municipal
rural roads in 62 Selected Municipalities (the Municipal Road Subprojects) including, inter
alia: (i) improving the drainage of the platform, including the replacement of existing
unsafe wood bridges by concrete standardized bridges; (ii) the construction and/or
reconstruction of culverts and longitudinal drainage; and (iii) the construction of fords and
the elimination of quagmires.
Part 4 - Road Safety
4.1. 
Institutional Strengthening
Provision of support to improve road safety in the Borrower's territory, through
institutional strengthening, including, inter alia: (i) defining the Borrower's road safety
-7-
strategy; (ii) providing training and capacity building to SEINFRA/SIT on road safety; (iii)
creating a traffic accident database for the Borrower's territory; and (iv) supporting the
creation of the Borrower's Road Safety Lead Committee.
4.2. 
Road Safety Corridors
Provision of support to establish two Road Safety Corridors, and carry out the following
interventions on those corridors: (i) carrying out small-scale works and goods for road
safety infrastructure improvement; (ii) provision and maintenance of equipment for traffic
laws enforcement, including non-lethal equipment for crash reporting, speed and drink-
driving enforcement; (iii) carrying out communication campaigns for road safety; and (iv)
provision of training of road police officers for monitoring, reporting and disseminating
road safety results on the Road Safety Corridors.
Part 5 - Project Management
Provision of support to the Borrower for Project monitoring, supervision and evaluation,
including audits.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, throughout the implementation of the Project, a
Project coordination unit within SEINFRA (the PCU), headed by a Project
coordinator, with a structure, functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank,
including, inter alia: (i) the responsibility of the overall implementation and
coordination of the Project, including the fiduciary activities; and (ii) the provision
of technical cooperation and support to each Participating Entity during the
carrying out of the activities under the Project.
2. 
No later than three (3) months from the Effective Date, the Borrower shall have
SIT fully staffed with personnel with experience and qualifications satisfactory to
the Bank, as described in Operational Manual.
B. 
Cooperation Agreements
1. 
No later than six (6) months from the Effective Date, the Borrower, through
SEINFRA, shall enter into a cooperation agreement (the Cooperation Agreement),
satisfactory to the Bank, for the implementation of Part 4 of the Project, with
DETRAN, the Borrower's Public Security Secretariat and the Borrower's Health
Secretariat, setting forth the manner in which said entities will participate in the
implementation of the respective Part of the Project.
2. 
The Borrower, through SEINFRA, shall exercise its rights and carry out its
obligations under the Cooperation Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, assign,
terminate, waive or fail to enforce any provision of the Cooperation Agreement.
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Cooperation Agreement and those
of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
C. 
Operational Manual
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project, and cause the Project to be carried out,
in accordance with the provisions of a manual, satisfactory to the Bank (the
Operational Manual), which shall include, inter alia:
-9-
(a) 
the procedures for the carrying out, monitoring and evaluation of the
Project (including the technical, procurement, disbursement, financial
management, social and environmental requirements thereof);
(b) 
the eligibility criteria for the selection of Selected Municipalities and the
Municipal Road Subprojects;
(c) 
the indicators to be used for Project monitoring and evaluation;
(d) 
the functions, responsibilities, structure and key staff composition of the
PCU and SIT; and
(e) 
the Environmental and Social Management Framework (including the
Environmental Management Plan and the Pest Management Framework),
the Resettlement Policy Framework and the Indigenous Peoples Planning
Framework.
2. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, waive or
fail to enforce any provision of the Operational Manual without the Bank's prior
written approval. In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational
Manual and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
D. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
E. 
Municipal Road Subprojects under Part 3 of the Project
1 .
The Borrower shall: (a) select Municipal Road Subprojects eligible for financing
under Part 3 of the Project in accordance with criteria and procedures set forth in
the Operational Manual; and (b) submit selected Municipal Road Subprojects for
the Bank's review and approval.
2. 
Prior to the approval by the Bank of any given Municipal Road Subproject under
Part 3 of the Project, the Borrower, through SEINFRA, shall furnish to the Bank,
an application containing the following information and documentation with
respect to such Municipal Road Subproject:
(a) 
the priority list of the municipal road sections to be included in such
Municipal Road Subproject, including the minutes of the public
discussions held for its preparation, signed by the participants or their
representatives;
(b) 
a copy of the Municipal Technical Cooperation Agreement; and
- 10-
(c) 
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
F. 
Safeguards
1 .
The Borrower shall, with the assistance of the pertinent Participating Entity,
implement, in a manner acceptable to the Bank, the Project in accordance with the
provisions of the Environmental and Social Management Framework, the
Environmental Management Plan, the Pest Management Framework, the
Resettlement Policy Framework, 
and the Indigenous 
Peoples 
Planning
Framework. The Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit
to be assigned, amended, abrogated or waived any of the Safeguards Documents
or provision thereof, without the prior approval of the Bank.
2. 
If any activities to be financed under the Project require land acquisition or
Resettlement, the Borrower, prior to carrying out any works, through SEINFRA,
shall prepare a resettlement and/or land acquisition action plan in accordance with
the RPF, disclose said plan in accordance with the procedures set forth in the RPF,
and shall implement all necessary measures under said plan.
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure, and/or cause the Participating Entities to ensure, that
the terms of reference for any consultancy in respect of any Project activity shall
be satisfactory to the Bank following its review thereof and, to that end, such terms
of reference shall duly incorporate the requirements of the applicable Bank
Safeguards Policies, as applied to the advice conveyed through such technical
assistance.
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the contractors for civil works under the Project
include the obligation of the relevant contractor to comply with and implement the
relevant ESMF, RPF, environmental management plan or land acquisition plan, as
applicable to such civil works commissioned or carried out pursuant to said
contract.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of the performance indicators set forth in the
Operational Manual. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar
semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one month after the end
of the period covered by such report.
0
- 11 -
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of
each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering
the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and Non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
I. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and Non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
- 12 -
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consulting
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and Non-
consulting services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under
which such methods may be used.
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding (including the method known as "pregdo
eletr6nico", as provided in the Guarantor's Law No. 10520, of July 17,
2002, under an e-procurement system approved by the Bank), subject to
the following additional procedure, namely, that the bidding documents
shall be acceptable to the Bank
(b) Shopping
(c) Framework Agreements
(d) Direct Contracting
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based
Selection, which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Method
(a) Selection based on Consultant's Qualifications
(b) Quality-based Selection
(c) Least Cost Selection
(d) Fixed Budget Selection
(e) Procedures set forth in Section V of the Consultants Guidelines for the
Selection of Individual Consultants
(f) Single Source Selection of consulting firms
(g) Single Source Selection of Individual Consultants set forth in paragraph 5.6
of the Consultant Guidelines
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
- 13 -
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised
from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant
to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
-14-
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Category 
Allocated 
to be financed
(US Dollars) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Works, goods,
consulting and Non-
consulting services, and 
18,000,000 
100%
Training for Part 1 of the
Project
(2) Works and consulting
services for Part 2.1 of 
99,500,000 
100%
the Project
(3) Works, goods,
consulting and Non-
consulting services for
Part 3 of the Project
(4) Works, goods,
consulting and Non-
consulting services, and 
15,000,000 
100%
Training for Part 4 of the
Project
(5) Consulting services,
Training and Operating
Costs for Part 5 of the
Project
(6) Unallocated 
13,000,000
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of the Loan
(7) Front-end Fee 
500,000 
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
200,000,000
3. 
For the purposes of this table:
(a) 
the term "Training" means reasonable expenditures (other than those for
consultants' services) incurred by the Borrower in connection with the
carrying out of workshops and training preparation and administration
- 15 -
under the Project, including, inter alia, travel costs, and per diem of
trainees, course fees, rental of training facilities and purchase of training
materials.
(b) 
the term "Operating Costs" means the reasonable cost of recurrent
expenditures incurred by SEINFRA for the implementation 
and
management of the Project (excluding civil servants' salaries) which
would not have been incurred absent the Project, including, inter alia,
travel costs and per diem, maintenance of equipment, office supplies and
materials, costs related to strengthening communication and disseminating
results (events, communication plans, publications), which expenditures
would not have been incurred absent the Project.
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up
to an aggregate amount not to exceed USD 40,000,000 (forty million dollars)
equivalent may be made for payments made within one year prior to the date of
this Agreement for Eligible Expenditures.
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2020. The Bank shall only grant an extension of the
Closing Date after the Borrower's Ministry of Finance has informed the Bank that
it agrees with such extension.
- 16 -
SCHEDULE3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
September 15, 2020 
1.2000%
March 15, 2021 
1.2000%
September 15, 2021 
1.2000%
March 15, 2022 
1.2000%
September 15, 2022 
1.2000%
March 15, 2023 
1.2000%
September 15, 2023 
1.8000%
March 15, 2024 
1.8000%
September 15, 2024 
1.8000%
March 15, 2025 
1.8000%
September 15, 2025 
1.8000%
March 15, 2026 
1.8000%
September 15, 2026 
2.2000%
March 15, 2027 
2.2000%
September 15, 2027 
2.2000%
March 15, 2028 
2.2000%
September 15, 2028 
2.2000%
March 15, 2029 
2.2000%
September 15, 2029 
2.4000%
March 15, 2030 
2.4000%
September 15, 2030 
2.4000%
March 15, 2031 
2.4000%
September 15, 2031 
2.4000%
March 15, 2032 
2.4000%
September 15, 2032 
2.6000%
March 15,2033 
2.6000%
September 15, 2033 
2.6000%
March 15, 2034 
2.6000%
1 
o
0. 
.yj-17-
September 15, 2034 
2.6000%
March 15, 2035 
2.6000%
September 15, 2035 
2.0000%
March 15, 2036 
2.0000%
September 15, 2036 
2.0000%
March 15, 2037 
2.0000%
September 15, 2037 
2.0000%
March 15, 2038 
2.0000%
September 15, 2038 
1.6000%
March 15, 2039 
1.6000%
September 15, 2039 
1.6000%
March 15, 2040 
1.6000%
September 15, 2040 
1.6000%
March 15, 2041 
1.6000%
September 15, 2041 
1.0000%
March 15, 2042 
1.0000%
September 15, 2042 
1.0000%
March 15, 2043 
1.0000%
September 15, 2043 
1.0000%
March 15, 2044 
1.0000%
September 15, 2044 
1.0000%
March 15, 2045 
1.0000%
September 15, 2045 
0.83636%
March 15,2046 
0.83636%
September 15, 2046 
0.83636%
March 15, 2047 
0.83636%
September 15,2047 
0.83636%
March 15,2048 
0.83636%
September 15, 2048 
0.83636%
March 15,2049 
0.83636%
September 15, 2049 
0.83636%
March 15, 2050 
0.83636%
September 15, 2050 
0.83640%
Total 
100.00%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this
Schedule.
-18-
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
-19-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1 
"AGERBA" means Agncia Estadual de Regulaqdo dos Serviqos Pziblicos de
Energia, Tranportes e Comunicaq5es da Bahia, the Borrower's energy, transport
and communications regulating agency created through the Borrower's Law No.
7.314 of May 19, 1998 and regulated by the Borrower's Decree No. 7.426 of
August 31, 1998 or any successor thereto satisfactory to the Bank.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
3. 
"Bank Safeguards Policies" means the Bank's operational policies and procedures
set forth in the Bank's Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04, 4.09, 4.10,
4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37, 7.50 and 7.60 as said manual is published under.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
5. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 and revised July 2014.
6. 
"Cooperation Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.B. of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
7. 
"CREMA Contracts" means a five-year contract under Part 2.1 of the Project,
entered into by the Borrower with a private sector contractor, which obligates the
private sector contractor to undertake all phases of road rehabilitation and
maintenance work as a single package, from design to the execution of such works,
with respect to an identified portion of the corresponding Borrower-managed
paved road network and whose remuneration is partially linked to road
performance criteria.
8. 
"CREMA-PPP Contracts" means a six-year or more contract under Part 2.2 of the
Project, entered into by the Borrower with a private sector contractor, which
obligates the private sector contractor to undertake all phases of road rehabilitation
and maintenance work as a single package, from design to the execution of such
works, with respect to an identified portion of the corresponding Borrower-
managed paved road network, and whose remuneration is substantially linked to
road performance criteria.
- 20 -
9. 
"DETRAN" means Departamento Estadual de Trdnsito, the Borrower's transport
department created through the Borrower's Law No. 3.650, May 19, 1978 and
Decree No. 10.137, of October 27, 2006.
10. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the
Borrower's integrated environmental and social impact assessment dated
December 2015, acceptable to the Bank, published on January 5, 2016 and made
available to the public on the website www.seinfra.ba.gov.br, which contains, inter
alia: (a) the guidelines, procedures and criteria to be used for screening Project
activities and ensure that such activities will not cause any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible negative environmental and social impacts; and (b)
the Environmental Management Plan.
11. 
"Environmental Management Plan" or "EMP" means the Borrower's plan dated
December 2015, acceptable to the Bank, which contain the results of the
Borrower's environmental assessment and the mitigation measures to mitigate,
prevent and manage environmental and social impacts and risks associated with
the Project (including procedures for the safe handling of physical cultural
resources), as the same may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified
from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
12. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
13. 
"Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework" or "IPPF" means the Borrower's
framework dated December 2015, acceptable to the Bank, published on January 5,
2016 and available to the public on the website www.seinfra.ba.gov.br, which sets
forth the principles and policies that shall apply to the preparation and carrying out
of the Project, including of any Indigenous Peoples plan that may be required under
the Project, as the same may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified
from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
14. 
"Municipal Road Subproject" any of the investments referred to in Part 3 of the
Project to take place in any of the Selected Municipalities.
15. 
"Municipal Technical Cooperation Agreement" means the agreement between the
Borrower, through SEINFRA, the relevant intermunicipal consortium, and the
relevant Selected Municipality detailing the commitments of each party to carry
out the Municipal Road Subprojects, including, inter alia: (i) the delegation of
responsibilities to the Borrower to carry out the works on roads under the Selected
Municipality' s jurisdiction; (ii) the obligation of the Selected Municipality and
relevant intermunicipal consortium to comply with the Safeguard Documents; (iii)
the Selected Municipality and relevant consortium commitment to undertake road
-21 -
routine maintenance; and (iv) the obligation to provide financing for the Municipal
Road Subproject.
16. 
"Non-consulting services" means surveys and other services of non-intellectual
and non-advisory nature that can be procured on the basis of performance or
measurable physical outputs.
17. 
"Operational Manual" means the Borrower's manual dated December 2, 2015 and
referred to in Section I.C. 1. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
18. 
"Participating 
Entities" means collectively SEFAZ, 
SEPLAN, AGERBA,
DETRAN, the Borrower's Health Secretariat and the Borrower's Public Security
Secretariat.
19. 
"Pavement Management System", means a coordinated set of activities, all
directed toward achieving the best value possible for the available public funds in
providing and operating smooth, safe, and economical road pavements.
20. 
"PCU" or "Project Coordination Unit" means Unidade de Coordena(do de
Programas de Financiamento Externo - UCP, the unit referred to in Section l.A
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, established by the Borrower's Portaria
SEINFRA No. 052, dated March 2, 2015 or any successor thereto acceptable to
the Bank.
21. 
"Pest Management Framework" means the Borrower's framework dated May
2015, acceptable to the Bank, included in the ESMF, which sets forth, inter alia,
the measures to be taken for the safe handling of pesticides/chemical products in
the course of Project implementation, as the same may be amended, supplemented
or otherwise modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of the
Bank.
22. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 and revised July 2014.
23. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
December 2, 2015 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines
and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
24. 
"Resettlement" means the impact of: (i) an involuntary taking of land under the
Project, which taking causes affected persons to have their: (a) income source or
means of livelihood adversely affected (whether or not the affected persons must
move to another location); or (b) right, title or interest in any house, land (including
- 22 -
premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset
acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (c) access to productive
assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (d) business, occupation,
work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily or
permanently; or (ii) an involuntary restriction of access to natural resources in
legally designated parks and protected areas (including reserves) which causes an
adverse impact on the livelihoods of the affected persons.
25. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the Borrower's framework
dated December 2015, acceptable to the Bank, published on January 5, 2016 and
available to the public on the website www.seinfra.ba.gov.br, specifying the
population resettlement policies, planning principles, institutional arrangements,
procurement arrangements and design criteria that shall apply to the preparation
and carrying out of any resettlement plans that may be required under the Project,
as the same may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to
time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
26. 
"Road Safety Corridors" means the Borrower's highway sections that will benefit
from specific infrastructure improvement, enhanced traffic law enforcement and
communications campaign aiming at decreasing the number on crash-related
fatalities and injuries.
27. 
"Road Safety Lead Committee" means the Borrower's public entity to be in charge
of defining and coordinating the road safety policy and related activities in the
Borrower's territory.
28. 
"Safeguard Documents" means the ESMF (including the Pest Management
Framework and the EMP), the IPPF (including any IPP) and the RPF (including
any resettlement action plan), as the same may be amended, supplemented or
otherwise modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
29. 
"SEINFRA" means Secretaria de Infraestrutura, the Borrower's Secretariat of
Infrastructure, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
30. 
"SEFAZ" means Secretaria de Fazenda, the Borrower's Secretariat of Finance, or
any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
31. 
"SIT" means Superintenddncia de Infraestrutura de Transportes, the Borrower's
infrastructure department created on March 1, 2015 within SEINFRA pursuant to
Law No. zl3.204, of December 11, 2014 or any successor thereto acceptable to the
Bank.
32. 
"Selected Municipality" means any of the 62 Borrower's municipalities selected
to participate in Part 3 of the Project according to the criteria established in the
Operational Manual.
N
-23 -
33. 
"SEPLAN" means Secretaria de Planejamento, the Borrower's Planning
Secretariat, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan
amount at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement
(the "Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective
dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan
Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-
annually in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified
in the Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.0 1(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties
to the Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions,
-24-
including (but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance,
interest, the Front-end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default
Interest Rate (if any), any surcharge, any prepayment premium, any
transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any
Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
-25 -
