OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8609-MA
Loan Agreement
(Integrated Disaster Risk Management and Resilience Program)
between
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 26, 2016
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8609-MA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated July 26, 2016, between KINGDOM OF MOROCCO ("Borrower") and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower
and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an integral part
of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have the
meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, the amount of two hundred million Dollars, ($200,000,000), as such amount may be
converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of
Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the program described in Schedule
1 to this Agreement ("Program").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of Schedule
2 to this Agreement. All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into
an account specified by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent (0.25%)
of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a Conversion
of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower
during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount
of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a
period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as
provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
-2-
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the terms of
the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency
of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an
Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable
Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on
a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate
applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted by the
Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General Conditions, and shall
be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and
of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar for
which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the proceeds of the
Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay
to itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05
(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for the purpose
in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Program. To this end, the Borrower
shall carry out Parts I and 2 of the Program through the Mol and Part 3 of the Program through the
MoEF, in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as the
Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Program is carried
out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that the Program
Operations Manual, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, has been adopted by the
Borrower.
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministre de l'Economie et des Finances
Avenue Mohammed V
Rabat
Kingdom of Morocco
Cable: 
Facsimile:
MINFIN 
212-537-76-40-81
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at Rabat, Kingdom of Morocco, as of the day and year first above written.
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
By
/Authorized 
Representative
Name: Mohammed Boussaid
Title: Minister of Economy and Finance
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: Marie Frangoise Marie-Nelly
Title: Country Director
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Description
The objective of the Program is to improve the institutional framework to finance disaster risk
reduction activities and strengthen financial resilience to natural disasters for targeted populations in the
Program Area.
The Program consists of the following activities:
Part 1: Promoting Institutional Reform and Capacity Building
Strengthening the existing disaster institutional risk management structure through the following: (i)
establishment of an improved governance structure for the FLCN, including the establishment of the
Steering 
Committee, 
the 
National 
Selection 
Commission 
and 
the 
Secretariat;
(ii) establishment of a transparent and results focused process for the allocation of FLCN resources for the
financing of Eligible Sub-projects, as well as of a monitoring and evaluation system for the Eligible Sub-
projects funded by FLCN; (iii) capacity building for improved disaster risk management for line Ministries,
local governments, public agencies, and state owned enterprises in the Program Area; and (iv) development
of a national integrated disaster risk and resilience management strategy.
Part 2: Scaling up Disaster Risk Reduction Activities
Carrying out of Eligible Sub-projects to be financed by FLCN and relevant Ministries, local governments,
and public agencies or state-owned enterprises.
Part 3: Improving Disaster Risk Financing and Insurance
Designing and implementing a national insurance program against catastrophic events for homeowners and
businesses, and establishing the FSEC, a dedicated solidarity fund to compensate uninsured households
affected by catastrophic events.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Program Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arran2ements
A. 
Program Fiduciary, Environmental and Social Systems
Without limitation on the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall
carry out the Program, or cause the Program to be carried out, in accordance with financial
management, procurement and environmental and social management systems acceptable to the
Bank ("Program Fiduciary, Environmental and Social Systems") which are designed to ensure that:
1. 
the Loan proceeds are used for their intended purposes, with due attention to the principles of
economy, efficiency, effectiveness, transparency, and accountability; and
2. 
the actual and potential adverse environmental and social impacts of the Program are identified,
avoided, minimized, or mitigated, as the case may be, all through an informed decision-making
process.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall carry out the
Program, or cause the Program to be carried out, in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Other Program Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
1 .
Program Institutions for Parts I and 2 of the Program
Without limitation on the generality of Part A of this Section I, the Borrower shall maintain the
following institutional arrangements throughout the implementation of Parts I and 2 of the Program
and as further set out in the Program Operations Manual and, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, during the implementation of the Program, the Borrower shall not amend or waive any of
such arrangements if, in the opinion of the Bank, such amendment or waiver may materially and
adversely affect the carrying out of Parts I and 2 of the Program or the achievement of the objective
thereof.
(a) 
Steering Committee
The Steering Committee shall be responsible for, inter alia: (i) setting the strategic direction for
FLCN; (ii) defining and reviewing the selection eligibility criteria for the sub-projects to be co-
financed by FLCN; (iii) providing a sounding board for line Ministries' and local governments'
priorities in relation to Eligible Sub-projects; (iv) monitoring and evaluating the results of the
Eligible Sub-projects in the Program Area; and (v) overseeing and providing guidance to both the
National Selection Commission and the Secretariat. Following its establishment, the Borrower shall
maintain throughout the implementation of the Program the Steering Committee with members,
staff and resources satisfactory to the Bank.
-7-
(b) 
National Selection Commission
The National Selection Commission shall operate under the guidance of the Steering Committee,
and shall manage the transparent selection of Eligible Sub-projects to be co-financed by the FLCN.
Following its establishment, the Borrower shall maintain throughout the implementation of the
Program the National Selection Commission with members, staff and resources satisfactory to the
Bank.
(c) 
Secretariat
The Secretariat shall support the work of the Steering Committee and the National Selection
Commission, and it shall be responsible for the monitoring of day-to-day coordination and the
management of the Program, the preparation of the Program Reports, as further set out in the
Program Operations Manual. Following its establishment, the Borrower shall maintain throughout
the implementation of the Program the Secretariat with staff and resources satisfactory to the Bank.
2. 
Program Institution for Part 3 of the Program
Without limitation on the generality of Part A of this Section I, the Borrower shall ensure to
maintain the following institutional arrangement throughout the implementation of Part 3 of the
Program and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, during the implementation of the Program,
the Borrower shall not amend or waive such arrangement if, in the opinion of the Bank, such
amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the carrying out of Part 3 of the Program
or the achievement of the objective thereof.
FSEC
Following its establishment, the Borrower shall ensure, throughout the implementation of the
Program, that the FSEC is maintained in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
Manual
The Borrower shall carry out Parts I and 2 of the Program in accordance with the Program
Operations Manual and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend
or waive any provision of said Manual if, in the opinion of the Bank, such amendment or waiver
may materially and adversely affect the carrying out of Parts I and 2 of the Program or the
achievement of the objective thereof.
4. 
Additional Program Implementation Arrangements
Without limitation on the generality of Part A of this Section I, the Borrower shall carry out the
Action Plan, or cause the Action Plan to be carried out, in accordance with the schedule set out in
the said Action Plan in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
-8-
Section II. 
Excluded Activities
The Borrower shall ensure that the Program excludes any activities which:
A. 
in the opinion of the Bank, are likely to have significant adverse impacts that are sensitive, diverse,
or unprecedented on the environment and/or affected people; or
B. 
involve the procurement of: (1) works, estimated to cost USD 50,000,000 equivalent or more per
contract; (2) goods, estimated to cost USD 30,000,000 equivalent or more per contract; (3) non-
consulting services, estimated to cost USD 20,000,000 equivalent or more per contract; or (4)
consultants' services, estimated to cost USD 15,000,000 equivalent or more per contract.
Section III. 
Program Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation; Audits
A. 
Program Reports
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Program and prepare Program Reports
in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions. Each Program Report
shall cover the period of one calendar year, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than ninety
(90) days after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Program Financial Audits
Without limitation on the generality of Section L.A of this Schedule 2 and Section 5.09 of the
General Conditions, the Borrower shall have the Financial Statements audited in accordance with
the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements
shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each
such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
C. 
Verification Protocol
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out verification missions at least annually through: (i) the IGAT or
independent verification agencies that the Bank has confirmed in writing to be acceptable, for the
verification of achievement of DLR I through DLR 6 which are set forth in the table in Section
IV.A.2 of this Schedule; and (ii) the SAI or independent verification agencies that the Bank has
confirmed in writing to be acceptable , for the verification of DLR 7 and DLR 8; and furnish to
the Bank not later than sixty (60) calendar days after the verification of compliance of said DLRs,
reports on the results of said verification of compliance process of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2. 
Such annual verifications will be based on a review of the documentation available at the Mol and
the MoEF, as well as during on-site verification missions if any.
-9-
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of Article
II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify
from time to time by notice to the Borrower to: (a) pay the Front-end Fee; (b) pay each Interest
Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar premium; and (c) finance the Program Expenditures, on the basis
of the results ("Disbursement Linked Results" or "DLRs") achieved by the Borrower, as measured
against specific indicators ("Disbursement Linked Indicators" or "DLIs"); all as set forth in the
table in paragraph 2 of this Part A.
2. 
The following table specifies each category of withdrawal of the proceeds of the Loan (including
the Disbursement Linked Indicators as applicable) ("Category"), the Disbursement Linked Results
for each Category (as applicable), and the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category:
- 10 -
Category 
Disbursement Linked Result 
Amount of the Loan 
Amount of the Loan
(including 
(as applicable) 
Allocated to the 
Allocated to the DLI
Disbursement 
DLR 
(expressed in USD)
Linked Indicator as 
(expressed in USD)
applicable)
(1) DLI #1: 
DLR#1 1(a): 
DLR#1.1(a): 
35,000,000
The FLCN strategic 
8,000,000
orientation and 
Preparation of. (i) draft
governance structure 
provisions to be included in
are redesigned with 
the Borrower's 2017 budget
a focus on disaster 
law, regarding the
risk reduction 
establishment of the Steering
Committee, and the inclusion
of local governments
(collectivitis territoriales)
among the beneficiaries of
FLCN financing; and (ii) draft
circulars (Circulaires) to be
issued by the Mol regarding
the establishment of the
National Selection
Commission and the
Secretariat.
DLR#1.1(b): 
DLR#1.1(b):
7,000,000
The Minister of Interior has
decided on the annual
allocation from the FLCN for
the financing of Eligible Sub-
projects
(in CY 16)
DLR#1.2(a): 
DLR#1.2(a):
7,000,000
(i) the Borrower's 2017 budget
law includes provisions
regarding the establishment of
the Steering Committee, and
the inclusion of local
governments (collectivitis
territoriales) among the
beneficiaries of FLCN
financing; and (ii) circulars
(Circulaires) regarding the
establishment of the National
Selection Commission and the
-1l-
Secretariat have been issued by
the Mol.
DLR#1.2(b):
DLR#1.2(b): 
7,000,000
An interactive FLCN website
that provides public access to
information, handles
grievances, and reports on the
M&E system, has been
created.
(in CY17)
DLR#1.3: 
DLR#1.3: 0
The Steering Committee, the
National Selection
Commission, the Secretariat
and the FLCN webpage are
maintained.(in CY18)
DLR# 1.4: 
DLR# 1.4: 3,000,000
The Steering Committee, the
National Selection
Commission, the Secretariat
and the FLCN webpage are
maintained.
A national integrated natural
disaster risk management
strategy is prepared by the
Steering Committee.
DLR#1.5: 
DLR#1.5: 3,000,000
The Steering Committee, the
National Selection
Commission, the Secretariat
and the FLCN webpage are
maintained.
A national integrated natural
disaster risk management
strategy is adopted by the
Steering Committee.
- 12-
(2) DLI #2: 
DLR#2.1: 170 million MAD in 
DLR#2.1: 5,000,000 
25,000,000
Cumulative amount 
CY16
of 
FLCN 
funds 
DLR#2.2: 340 million MAD in 
DLR#2.2: 5,000,000
allocated to Eligible 
CY17
Sub-projects 
DLR#2.3: 510 million MAD in DLR#2.3: 5,000,000
CY18
DLR#2.4: 680 million MAD in DLR#2.4: 5,000,000
CY19
DLR#2.5: 850 million MAD in 
DLR#2.5: 5,000,000
CY20
(3) DLI #3 
DLR#3.1: N/A in CY16 
DLR#3.1: 0 
8,000,000
Minimum 
DLR#3.2: 10% in CY17 
DLR#3.2: 2,000,000
percentage of FLCN 
DLR#3.3: 10% in CY18 
DLR#3.3: 2,000,000
funds allocated to 
DLR#3.4: 10% in CY19 
DLR#3.4: 2,000,000
Eligible Non- 
DLR#3.5: 10% in CY20 
DLR#3.5: 2,000,000
Structural Sub-
projects
(4) DLI #4 
DLR#4.1: N/A in CY16 
DLR#4.1: 0 
22,000,000
Minimum
DLR#4.2: 35% in CY17 
DLR#4.2: 8,000,000
percentage of total 
DLR#4.3: 40% in CY18 
DLR#4.3: 8,000,000
funding of Eligible 
DLR#4.4: 45% in CY19 
DLR#4.4: 3,000,000
Sub-projects
Sprodeythe 
DLR#4.5: 50% in CY20 
DLR#4.5: 3,000,000
provided by the
entities responsible
for implementation
and their partners
DLR#5.1: N/A 
DLR#5.1: 0 
40,000,000
(5) DLJ#5inY1
Cumulative value ofinC1
Cumulatinve of DLR#5.2: N/A in CY17 
DLR#5.2: 0
tomletal 
funigib 
DLR#5.3: 
100 million MAD 
DLR#5.3:6,666,667
completed 
EligibleinC 
8
Sub-projects 
JC1
Sbpectg 
str DLR#5.4: 
350 million MAD 
DLR#5.4:16,666,667
achieving 
disaster
risk reduction targets 
in CY19
DLR#5.5: 
600 million MAD 
DLR#5.5:16,666,666
in CY20
(6) DLI#6 
DLR#6.1: N/A in CY16 
DLR#6.1: 0 
10,000,000
Minimum 
DLR#6.2: 50% in CY17 
DLR#6.2: 4,000,000
percentage of 
DLR#6.3: 50% in CY18 
DLR#6.3: 2,000,000
entities responsible 
DLR#6.4: 50% in CY19 
DLR#6.4: 2,000,000
for the 
DLR#6.5: 50% in CY20 
DLR#6.5: 2,000,000
implementation of
Eligible Sub-
projects having
received technical
- 13 -
assistance and/or
training
(7) DLI#7 
DLR#7.1: 
DLR#7.1: 14,500,000 
34,500,000
Adoption of the
catastrophic risk 
The draft catastrophic risk
insurance legislative 
insurance law is transmitted by
and regulatory 
the General Secretary of the
framework and 
Government (Secritariat
minimum number of Giniral du Gouvernement) to
people in the 
the relevant Ministries, and is
Program Area 
adopted by the Government
insured for bodily 
Cabinet (Conseil A
injuries against 
Gouvernement)
catastrophic events 
DLR#7.2: 
DLR#7.2: 7,000,000
The draft catastrophic risk
insurance law is transmitted to
the Parliament, and the
implementation legal
documents referred to in
Article 71 of the draft
catastrophic risk insurance law
and providing for the
effectiveness of the insurance
scheme, are prepared by the
MoEF and ACAPS
DLR#7.3: 
DLR#7.3: 5,000,000
The 
implementation 
legal
documents 
referred 
to 
in
Article 
71 
of 
the 
draft
catastrophic risk insurance law
and 
providing 
for 
the
effectiveness of the insurance
scheme, are adopted by the
Government
DLR#7.4: 5.85 million 
DLR#7.4: 8,000,000
DLR#7.5: 5.85 million 
DLR#7.5: 0
- 14 -
(8) DLI#8 
DLR#8.1: N/A 
DLR#8.1: 0 
25,000,000
Establishment and
operationalization of
the FSEC to protect
the uninsured
DLR#8.2: 
DLR#8.2: 9,000,000
The 
implementation 
legal
documents 
referred 
to 
in
Article 
71 
of 
the 
draft
catastrophic risk insurance law
regarding the establishment of
the FSEC are prepared by the
MoEF and ACAPS
DLR#8.3: 
DLR#8.3: 8,000,000
The implementation legal
documents referred to in
Article 71 of the draft
catastrophic risk insurance law
regarding the establishment of
the FSEC are adopted by the
Government
DLR#8.4: 
DLR#8.4: 8,000,000
FSEC received initial financial
contributions as per the
provisions of the catastrophic
risk insurance law
(9) Front-end Fee to 
Not applicable 
500,000
be paid pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in
accordance with
Section 2.07(b) of
the General
Conditions
(10) Interest Rate 
Not applicable 
0
Cap or Interest Rate
Collar premium to
be paid pursuant to
Section 2.08(c) of
this Agreement in
- 15-
accordance with
Section 4.05 of the
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
200,000,000
For the purposes of Category (3), "Eligible Non-Structural Sub-projects" means Eligible Sub-projects
which shall not involve physical constructions (except for some types of early warning systems), as well as
Eligible Sub-projects which shall involve small-scale physical construction and whose total costs shall not
exceed the amount specified in the Program Operations Manual.
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
for purposes of Section 2.05 of the General Conditions, for payments for Program
Expenditures made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed USD 50,000,000 may be made for such payments made
prior to this date but on or after January 1, 2015; and
(b) 
for any DLR under Categories (1) through (8), until and unless the Borrower has furnished
evidence satisfactory to the Bank establishing that said DLR has been achieved; such
evidence to be verified in accordance with the terms of the Verification Protocol.
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B. 1(b) of this Section, the Borrower may withdraw: (i) an
amount not to exceed USD 50,000,000 as an advance; provided, however, that if any of the DLRs
set forth in the table in Part A.2 of this Section in the opinion of the Bank, is not achieved (or only
partially achieved) by the Closing Date, the Borrower shall refund such advance or portion of such
advance as determined by the Bank to the Bank promptly upon notice thereof by the Bank. Except
as otherwise agreed with the Borrower, the Bank shall cancel the amount so refunded. Any further
withdrawals requested as an advance under any Category shall be permitted only on such terms and
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.1 (b) of this Section:
(a) 
Subject to the provisions of Part B.3(b) of this Section, if the Bank is satisfied that any
DLR for DLI #2 and DLI# 5, has been partially achieved, provided that, with respect to
DLI#2, at a minimum, for each CY, an amount of 100,000,000 MAD has been allocated
by the FLCN to Eligible Sub-projects, the Bank may authorize the withdrawal of a portion
of the amount of the unwithdrawn proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said DLR in
accordance with the following formula:
Loan amount allocated to the DLI divided by the DLI end-line value for CY20 multiplied
by the number by which the actual result achieved for a given CY exceeds the results
achieved for the previous CY.
(b) 
If the Bank is not satisfied that any of the DLRs have been achieved by the date by which
the said DLR is set to be achieved, or if a DLR has been exceeded, the Bank may, at any
time, 
by 
notice 
to 
the 
Borrower, 
decide, 
in 
its 
sole 
discretion, 
to:
(i) authorize the withdrawal of such amounts to be calculated in accordance with the
- 16-
formula set out in the Section IV.B.3(a) immediately above up to the maximum
unwithdrawn proceeds of the Loan then allocated to the applicable Category which, in the
opinion of the Bank, corresponds to the extent of achievement of said DLR; (ii) reallocate
all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said DLR to any other DLR,
or vice versa within the limits of such DLI; and/or (iii) cancel all or a portion of the
proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said DLR, if applicable.
4. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2021.
5. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section IV, if at any time after the Closing Date
the Borrower has failed to provide evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the Withdrawn Loan
Balance does not exceed the total amount of Program Expenditures paid by the Borrower, exclusive
of any such expenditures financed by any other financier or by the Bank or the Association under
any other loan, credit or grant, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to
the Bank such excess amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance. The Bank shall cancel the refunded
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance.
- 17-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date ("Installment Share").
If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the
principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable
amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each January 15 and July 15
Beginning July 15, 2021 
2.50%
through January 15, 2041
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date,
the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall
be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in
accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on each
Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts determined by
the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator
of which is the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share") and the
denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal
Payment Dates falling on or after such date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as
necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a
Currency Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following
the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any time the
Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on or after the
respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer
apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
- 18-
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency, the
amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal Payment Date
occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such
amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank
under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines
in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of
this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
- 19-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"ACAPS" means Autoriti de Contr6le des Assurances et de la Privoyance Sociale, the Borrower's
insurance and social welfare supervisory authority.
2. 
"Action Plan" means the Borrower's plan dated March 10, 2016, and referred to in Section I.C.4
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the
Bank.
3. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the Bank's "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Program-for-Results Financing," dated February 1, 2012, and revised July 10,
2015.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
5. 
"CY" means the calendar year starting on January I and ending on December 31 of each year.
6. 
"Disbursement Linked Indicator" or "DLI" means in respect of a given Category, the indicator
related to said Category as set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
7. 
"Disbursement Linked Result" or "DLR" means in respect of a given Category, the result under
said Category as set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, on the
basis of the achievement of which, the amount of the Loan allocated to said result may be
withdrawn in accordance with the provisions of said Section IV.
8. 
"Eligible Sub-projects" means sub-projects, to be carried out in the Program Area, initiated by line
Ministries, local governments, public agencies or state-owned enterprises, consisting of structural
and non-structural activities for disaster risk reduction, determined eligible by the Steering
Committee on recommendation from the National Selection Commission and to be co-financed by
the FLCN, all in accordance with the Selection Criteria.
9. 
"FLCN" means Fonds de Lutte Contre les Effets des Catastrophes Naturelles, the Borrower's fund
for the fight against natural disasters established pursuant the 2009 Budget Law (Law No. 40-08).
10. 
"FSEC" means Fonds de Solidariti contre les Evinements Catastrophiques, the Borrower's
solidarity fund against catastrophic events.
11. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development General
Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in Section II of this
Appendix.
12. 
"IGAT" means Inspection Gjnrale de l'Administration Territoriale, the inspection unit within the
Mol.
13. 
"MAD" means Moroccan Dirham, the lawful currency of the Borrower.
- 20 -
14. 
"M&E" means monitoring and evaluation.
15. 
"MoEF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Economy and Finance, or any successor thereto.
16. 
"Mol" means the Borrower's Ministry of Interior, or any successor thereto.
17. 
"National Selection Commission" means the national commission for the selection of Eligible Sub-
projects, to be established by the Borrower in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
18. 
"Program Area" means the regions of Tanger-T6touan-Al Hoceima, I'Oriental, F6s-Mekn s,
Rabat-Sald-K6nitra, Bdni-Mellal-Kh6nifra, Casablanca-Settat, Marrakech-Safi, Drad-Tafilalet, and
Souss-Massa, and the provinces of Guelmin, Tan-Tan and Sidi-Ifni of the Borrower.
19. 
"Program Fiduciary, Environmental and Social Systems" means the Borrower's systems for the
Program referred to in Section L.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
20. 
"Program Operations Manual" means the manual setting forth the technical, administrative,
environmental, social and fiduciary procedures applicable to Parts 1 and 2 of the Program, to be
adopted by the Borrower pursuant to Section 4.01 of this Agreement.
21. 
"SAI" means Service de l'Audit Interne, the internal audit service of the Directorate of Treasury
and External Finances at the MoEF.
22. 
"Secretariat" means the secretariat to be established by the Borrower at the Mol for Parts I and 2
of the Program, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
23. 
"Selection Criteria" means with the criteria and arrangements set forth in the Program Operations
Manual for the selection of Eligible Sub-projects.
24. 
"Steering Committee" means the steering committee for the Parts 1 and 2 of the Program to be
established by the Borrower in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
25. 
"Verification Protocol" means the verification protocol referenced in Section III.C of Schedule 2
to this Agreement, as set out in terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
Wherever used throughout the General Conditions, the term "the Project" is modified to read "the
Program", the term "the Project Agreement" is modified to read "the Program Agreement", the
term "Project Implementing Entity" is modified to read "the Program Implementing Entity", the
term "Project Report" is modified to read "Program Report"; and the term "Eligible Expenditures"
is modified to read "Program Expenditures".
2. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers are
modified to reflect the amendments set forth below.
-21 -
3. 
Section 2.02, Special Commitment by the Bank, is deleted in its entirety, and the subsequent
Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
4. 
In Section 2.02 (originally numbered as Section 2.03), the heading "Applications for Withdrawal
or for Special Commitment" is replaced with "Applications for Withdrawal", and the phrase "or to
request the Bank to enter into a Special Commitment" is deleted.
5. 
The section originally numbered as Section 2.04, Designated Accounts is deleted in its entirety, and
the subsequent Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
6. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (originally numbered as Section 2.05), Eligible Expenditures
(renamed "Program Expenditures" in accordance with paragraph I of this Section II), is modified
to read: "(a) the payment is for the financing of the reasonable cost of expenditures required for the
Program and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of
the Legal Agreements;".
7. 
The last sentence of Section 2.04 (originally numbered as Section 2.06), Financing Taxes, is
modified to read: "To that end, if the Bank at any time determines that the amount of any such Tax
is excessive, or that such Tax is discriminatory or otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice
to the Borrower, exclude such amount or such Tax from the Program Expenditures to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, as required to ensure consistency with such policy of the Bank."
8. 
Section 2.06 (originally numbered as Section 2.08), Reallocation, is modified to read:
"Notwithstanding any allocation of an amount of the Loan to a withdrawal category under the Loan
Agreement, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, reallocate any other amount of the Loan to
such category if the Bank reasonably determines at any time that such reallocation is appropriate
for the purposes of the Program.
9. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate specified
in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance
at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge
shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on
which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date."
10. 
Section 7.01, Cancellation by the Borrower, is modified to read: "The Borrower may, by notice to
the Bank, cancel any amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance."
11. 
Paragraph (d) of Section 7.03, Cancellation by the Bank, entitled "Misprocurement", is deleted,
and subsequent paragraphs are relettered accordingly.
- 22 -
12. 
Section 7.04, Amounts Subject to Special Commitment not Affected by Cancellation or Suspension
by the Bank, is deleted in its entirety, and subsequent Sections in Article VII and references to such
Sections are renumbered accordingly.
13. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all references to Section numbers and paragraphs are modified, as
necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above.
14. 
A new paragraph 19 is inserted with the following definition of "Commitment Charge", and the
remaining paragraphs are renumbered accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan Agreement
for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
15. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition of "Front-
end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
16. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition of the
term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank pursuant to
the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited to) any amount of
the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the
Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or
early termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium
payable upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding
Amount payable by the Borrower."
17. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the definition of
"Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and Commitment
Charge are" after the word "interest".
18. 
Renumbered paragraph 88 (originally paragraph 87) of the Appendix, setting forth the definition
of "Special Commitment" is deleted in its entirety, and all subsequent paragraphs are renumbered
accordingly.
