OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8740-PE
Loan Agreement
(Integrated Water Resources Management in Ten Basins Project-
Gesticn Integrada de los Recursos Hidricos en Diez Cuencas)
between
REPUBLIC OF PERU
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
Se pe?be 
, 2011
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
Se 
hfemAer 25' , 201 ?, between the REPUBLIC OF PERU
("Borrower") 
and 
the 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of forty million Dollars ($40,000,000), as such amount
may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with
the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower's Representative for purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is the Borrower's Minister
of Economy and Finance or the Borrower's Director of Indebtedness and Public Treasury
(DGETP), or any person whom any of them shall designate in writing.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than sixty
(60) days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e)
of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
-2-
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest
rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the
Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out by ANA, through the PIU, in
coordination with MINEDU for Part 2 (b) (iv) of the Project and SENAMHI for Part I (a)
(i) of the Project, all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project
shall be carried out by ANA in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that ANA's
Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of ANA to enable the
Borrower to comply with its obligations under this Agreement, as applicable to ANA.
-3-
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that any event
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The Operational Manual has been adopted by ANA, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank;
(b) 
The PIU's executive director, finance and administration specialist and
procurement specialist have been hired by ANA, all in a manner acceptable to the
Bank.
5.02 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance, provided that the
Borrower's Director of DGETP, may, by him or herself represent the Borrower to sign
amendments and/or notices to this Agreement which are considered of an administrative
and non-financial nature. The signing by such Director of an amendment and/or notice
shall constitute a representation by the Borrower that any such amendment and/or notice is
considered to be administrative and non-financial in nature.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Jr. Junin 319
Lima, Peru
Facsimile: +51 (1) 626-9921
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at 
L-1ri A 
Te 
, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF PERU
By 
4A_
Authorized Representative
Name 
r7qp 
m PyEJA THS 
DPER 
a 
R
Title 
ministra de Ftxnara y Finanzas
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By 
_ 
w\ 
b 
(
Authorized Representative
Name 
( pr 
[i-
Title 
7 
L20R
-5-
SCHEDULE1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to strengthen the capacity of targeted water resources
management related institutions to plan, monitor and manage water resources at the national level
and in Selected River Basins in the Borrower's territory.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. Consolidating Integrated Water Resources Management (IWRM) at the national
level
Provision of support to ANA and other Borrower's water related institutions to plan, monitor and
manage water resources at the national level, including:
(a) 
enhancing data generation for IWRM, through the provision of equipment for: (i) the
expansion of a digitized, real-time national hydro-meteorological network; (ii) water quality
monitoring; (iii) water use, namely surface water abstraction for irrigated agriculture; (iv)
groundwater monitoring for selected critical aquifers; and (v) the modernization of monitoring
equipment for dam safety in Selected Dams.
(b) 
improvement of water resources planning and decision-making through, inter alia: (i) the
strengthening of NWRIS' capacity to store and process data collected from various monitoring
networks; (ii) the development of decision-making modelling tools for WRM and integration into
the NWRIS for use at national and basin levels; (iii) the creation and strengthening of institutions
for the evaluation and management of groundwater; (iv) the design and implementation of a surface
water abstraction monitoring program for the irrigated agricultural sector (which will include, inter
alia, the installation of monitoring equipment of water use, namely for surface water abstraction
for irrigated agriculture, and a program to formalize water rights and facilitate monitoring and
enforcement of efficient water use); (v) the design and implementation of a water quality program
at national level (which will include, inter alia, the implementation of the existing monitoring
framework and the installation of water quality monitoring equipment based on said framework);
(vi) the improvement of water conflict resolution mechanisms; (vii) the strengthening of economic
incentives for increased water use efficiency and reduced pollution; and (viii) the improvement of
information accessibility to end-users and simplification of ANA's administrative procedures.
(c) 
design and implementation of a technical assistance dam safety program, including the
carrying out of the following activities: (i) support the adoption of a regulatory framework for dam
safety management; (ii) develop technical guidelines and capacity building for dam monitoring;
(iii) carrying out dam safety risk assessments and provide guidelines for emergency plans; (iv)
formulate dam safety management plans for Selected Dams; and (v) create a dam safety
information module within NWRIS.
-6-
Part 2. Improving WRM in Selected Pilot River Basins
Provision of support to improve IWRM in Selected River Basins, including:
(a) 
strengthening IWRM and the capacity of six existing CCs in Pilot River Basins in the
Pacific watershed, through the carrying out of the following activities: (i) enhancement of Water
Resources Monitoring Center - Level I to develop technical capacities and implement activities
such as forecasting, early warning and analysis of water rights; (ii) capacity building and training,
including the updating and monitoring of existing IWRM plans, ensuring balanced representation
of basin stakeholders in the CCs, and improving communication mechanisms; and (iii) definition
of financing mechanisms and legally binding arrangements to finance the IWRM plans.
(b) 
development of IWRM plans in four Pilot River Basins in the Atlantic watershed, through
carrying out of the following activities: (i) establishment of new CCs; (ii) creation of Water
Resources Monitoring Centers - Level I in each basin; (iii) development of participatory IWRM
plans; and (iv) implementation of Cultura del Agua Program to promote a 'water culture' among
policy makers, water professionals, youth and public.
Part 3. General Project Administration
Provision of support to the PIU for Project management and monitoring of activities and technical
supervision through the provision of technical assistance and training, administrative support and
fiduciary support related to procurement, financial management and safeguards, and the carrying
out of communication activities.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
For purposes of complying with its obligation referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement,
the Borrower shall transfer the proceeds of the Loan to ANA through its budgetary
mechanisms and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
2. 
Not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall create and
thereafter maintain until completion of the Project, a committee (the Project Steering
Committee) to oversee the implementation of the Project and approve the corresponding
Annual Operational Plan. Said committee shall have membership and functions acceptable
to the Bank, as defined in the Operational Manual.
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that ANA shall operate and maintain, until completion of the
Project, the PIU with: (a) competent staff with qualifications and experience satisfactory
to the Bank in adequate numbers (as detailed in the Operational Manual), and headed by
an executive director; and (b) functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank,
including the responsibility to manage, coordinate, supervise, monitor and evaluate the
Project.
4. 
Not later than thirty (30) days after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall ensure that ANA,
through its PIU, shall have hired the following additional PIU key technical and
administrative staff: a planning, budget and evaluation specialist, a technical supervision
coordinator, 
and 
an 
environmental 
specialist, 
all with 
functions, 
experience,
responsibilities and qualifications acceptable to the Bank, as described in the Operational
Manual.
5. 
The Borrower shall ensure that ANA, through its PIU, shall: (a) not later than thirty (30)
days before the beginning of each year during Project implementation, prepare and furnish
to the Borrower, for approval thereof, an annual action plan (the Annual Action Plan),
satisfactory to the Bank (which plan shall include, inter alia, the Project activities to be
carried during the calendar year following the date of presentation of said plan, an
implementation timetable and the funds allocated to carry out said Project activities); and
(b) immediately thereafter, carry out said Annual Action Plan in accordance with its terms
and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
B. 
Cooperation Agreements
1 .
The Borrower shall ensure that ANA shall carry out Part 2 (b) (iv) of the Project in
accordance with the provisions of the MINEDU Agreement.
-8-
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that ANA shall carry out Part I (a) (i) of the Project in
accordance with the provisions of the SENAMHI Agreement.
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that ANA shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations
under the MINEDU Agreement and the SENAMHI Agreement, in such manner as to
protect the interests of ANA and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that ANA shall not
assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce the MINEDU Agreement, the
SENAMHI Agreement or any of their provisions.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D. 
Operational Manual
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
ensure that ANA, through its PIU, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
provisions of a manual (the Operational Manual), satisfactory to the Bank which shall
include, inter alia: (i) the organizational structure of the Project, including the structure
and terms of reference of personnel in charge of the implementation of the Project and the
composition, functions and responsibilities of the Project Steering Committee and the PIU;
(ii) the procedures for the carrying out, monitoring and evaluation of the Project; (iii) the
indicators for Project monitoring and evaluation; (iv) the Project procurement and financial
management requirements and procedures; (v) the Project's chart of accounts and internal
controls; (vi) the format of: (A) the unaudited interim financial reports referred to in
Section II.B.3 of this Schedule; and (B) the Financial Statements; and (vii) the terms of
reference for carrying out the Project audits under Section II.B.2 of this Schedule. In case
of any inconsistency between any provision of the Operational Manual and this Agreement,
the provision of this Agreement will prevail.
E. 
Safeguards
1 .
The Borrower shall ensure that ANA, through its PIU, shall: (a) carry out the Project in
accordance with the provisions of the Environmental and Social Management Framework
and the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework; and (b) ensure that the Project will not
involve any Resettlement.
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that ANA shall ensure that the terms of reference for any
consultancy in respect of any Project activity shall be satisfactory to the Bank following
its review thereof and, to that end, such terms of reference shall duly incorporate the
requirements of the applicable Bank Safeguards Policies, as applied to the advice
conveyed through such technical assistance.
3. 
Prior to carrying out any activity related to any Selected Dam, the Borrower shall ensure
that ANA shall enter into agreements or arrangements satisfactory to the Bank with the
regional government where the pertinent Selected Dam is located, providing for the
-9-
coordination and collaboration arrangements for the establishment of CC and related WRM
activities.
4. 
Prior to the development of any dam safety management plan for any given Selected Dam
under Part I (c) (iv) of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that ANA shall provide to
the Bank relevant information on the dam safety status of the Selected Dam, including, but
not limited to, existing operation and maintenance plans and procedures, existing findings
and recommendations for any necessary remedial work, and emergency preparedness
plans. If, upon the Bank's review of the aforesaid information, the Bank determines that a
Selected Dam represents a high hazard case involving significant remedial work, the
Borrower shall ensure that ANA shall: (a) appoint a panel of independent dam safety
experts, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, to review and advise on the
development of the pertinent dam safety management plan for such Selected Dam; and (b)
upon completion of the pertinent dam safety management plan, cause the owner of the
Selected Dam to carry out said plan in accordance with its terms and in a manner acceptable
to the Bank.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall ensure that ANA, through its PIU, shall: (a) monitor and evaluate the
progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports for the Project in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators
agreed with the Bank and set forth in the Operational Manual, which Project Reports shall
cover the period of one calendar semester; and (b) not later than forty-five (45) days after
the end of the period covered by each such report, furnish to the Bank the pertinent Project
Report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1 .
The Borrower shall ensure that ANA, through its PIU, shall maintain a financial
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall ensure
that ANA, through its PIU, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five
(45) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for
the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that ANA, through its PIU, shall have the Financial Statements
audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of ANA or,
if applicable, such other period to be agreed with the Bank. The Borrower shall ensure that
ANA, through its PIU, shall furnish to the Bank the audited Financial Statements for each
such period not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
- 10 -
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. 
All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to the
corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the Procurement Guidelines, or
Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive Bidding; (b) Shopping; and (c) Direct
Contracting.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality and
Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following methods, other
than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of consultants'
services for those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based
Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; (d) Selection based
on Consultants' Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f)
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.1-5.6 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection
of Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of Individual
Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts, which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
E. 
Special Provisions
(a) 
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provision set forth in
this Section or the Procurement Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern
all procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services under National
Competitive Bidding procedures:
(i) 
Foreign bidders shall not be required to be locally registered as a condition
of participation in the selection process.
(ii) 
No reference value shall be required for publication in the bidding
documents or used for the purpose of evaluation.
(iii) 
Award of contracts shall be based exclusively on price and, whenever
appropriate, shall take into account factors that can be quantified
objectively, and the procedure for such quantification shall be disclosed in
the invitation to bid.
(iv) 
Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate in National Competitive
Bidding without restriction and shall not be subject to any unjustified
requirement which will affect their ability to bid such as, but not limited
to, the requirement to authenticate their bidding documents or any
documentation related to such bidding documents with either Peruvian
Consulates, the Borrower's Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or any Peruvian
authorities, as a prerequisite of bidding.
(v) 
The Borrower shall ensure that ANA utilizes standard bidding documents
and standard evaluation forms; all satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) 
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any provision set forth in this
Section or the Consultant Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern all
employment of consultants:
(i) 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be locally registered as a
condition of participation in the selection process.
(ii) 
Foreign 
consultants 
shall 
not be required 
to 
authenticate 
any
documentation related to their participation in the selection process with
Peruvian Consulates, the Borrower's Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or any
Peruvian authorities, as a condition of participation in said selection
process.
-12-
(iii) 
No minimum number of responsive proposals shall be required prior to
awarding a contract for consultants' services.
(iv) 
The Borrower shall ensure that ANA uses standard request for proposals
and standard evaluation forms, all satisfactory to the Bank.
(v) 
Foreign consultants, either individuals or firms, shall not be required to
pay fees to the Peruvian Consultants' Association that are different from
those required for Peruvian consultants.
(vi) 
No consultant financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall, at the time
he or she is carrying out his or her contractual obligations as a consultant,
hold civil service office or any other position in any agency of the
Borrower (including ANA), nor shall such consultant have any right to re-
entry into any such office or position upon the conclusion of his or her
consulting services.
F. 
Procurement Plan Execution System
The Borrower shall ensure that ANA shall: (i) supply the STEP with the information
contained in the Procurement Plan within sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement;
and (ii) (A) update the Procurement Plan at least once a year, or as needed through the
duration of the Project, to reflect the actual needs and progress in implementation of the
Project and, (B) supply the STEP with the information contained in the updated
Procurement Plan immediately thereafter.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "Disbursement Guidelines for
Investment Project Financing" dated February 2017, as revised from time to time by the
Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance
Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures
in each Category.
-
3-
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Works, goods,
consultants' services, non- 
40,000,000 
100%
consulting services, Training
and Operating Costs
TOTAL AMOUNT 
40,000,000
3. 
For the purposes of this paragraph:
(i) 
"Operating Costs" means the reasonable incremental operational costs (which
would not have been incurred absent the Project) incurred by ANA in connection
with the daily operation of the Project, including, rental and maintenance of
equipment and vehicles, rental of office facilities, office utilities, supplies and
materials, domestic travel and per diem of ANA staff, and laboratory services,
which expenditures would not have been incurred absent the Project; and
"Training" means the non-consultant expenditures incurred by ANA in connection
with training activities, workshops and study tours under the Project, including the
rental of facilities, training materials and international and domestic travel, lodging
and per diem of trainers and trainees.
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made from
the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 30, 2022.
Section V. 
Other undertakings
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 5.03 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall
ensure that ANA shall provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project, as further detailed in the Operational Manual and the Borrower's
Feasibility Study (Estudio de Factibilidad).
-14-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a)
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment
Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary,
to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
October 15, 2022 
50%
April 15, 2023 
25%
October 15, 2023 
12.5%
April 15, 2024 
12.5%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as
of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding
on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall
be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
-
5-
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating
to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
-16-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. "ANA" means Autoridad Nacional del Agua, the Borrower's National Water Authority,
created pursuant to the Borrower's Legislative Decree No. 997, dated March 13, 2008, and its
successor or successors thereto.
2. "ANA's Legislation" means collectively: (i) the Borrower's Decree Law No. 997, dated March
13, 2008 which creates ANA, as amended by Law No. 30048, dated June 25, 2013; (ii) the
Borrower's Water Resources Law; and (iii) the Borrower's Supreme Decree No. 006-2010-
AG, dated July 8, 2010, which approves ANA's Regulations, as amended by the Borrower's
Supreme Decree No. 012-2016-MINAGRI, dated July 22, 2016.
3. "Annual Action Plan" means any of the plans referred to in Section I.A.5 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
4. "Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and
Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated October
15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
5. "Bank Safeguard Policies" means the Bank's operational policies and procedures set forth in
the Bank's Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04, 4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.36 and 4.37,
as said manual is published under http://web.worldbank.org.
6. "Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
7. 
"CC" means a Consejo de Cuenca, a Borrower's River Basin Council, created pursuant to the
Borrower's Water Resources Law (as defined below).
8. "Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January
2011 (revised July 2014).
9. "Cultura del Agua Program" means the Borrower's Programa de Desarrollo de la Cultura del
Agua, mentioned in Article 88 of the Water Resources Law.
10. "Environmental and Social Management Framework or ESMF" means the Borrower's
framework, acceptable to the Bank, published and available to the public on the website
http://www.ana.gob.pe/sites/default/files/girh/inarco de gestion social v ambiental final.pd
f on February 21, 2017, and on Bank's InfoShop on February 21, 2017, which contains the
environmental protection measures in respect of the Project, including, inter alia: (a) measures
for chance findings of cultural property; (b) guidelines for the identification of existing
environmental conditions and potential direct and indirect environmental impacts resulting
- 17-
from the carrying out of the Project; (c) guidelines for the carrying out of environmental
assessments and the preparation of environmental management plans, when applicable; (d) the
recommendation of mitigation measures for each negative environmental impact identified;
and (e) measures for enhancing each identified positive environmental impact, as said
framework may be amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank.
11. "Feasibility Study" means the Borrower's appraisal document (Estudio de Factibilidad SNIP
No 302961) prepared by the ANA and approved on February 22, 2017 by the Borrower's
Ministry of Economy and Finance.
12. "General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
13. "Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework or IPPF" means the Borrower's framework,
acceptable to the Bank, published 
and available to the public on the website
http://www.ana.gob.pe/sites/default/files/girh/marco_deplanificacion_para_pueblos
indigenas_final.pdf on February 21, 2017, and on Bank's InfoShop on February 21, 2017,
detailing measures to mitigate any adverse impact on indigenous peoples as a result of any
activity carried out under the Project and to ensure that they benefit from the Project, including
procedures for the preparation and implementation of the pertinent Indigenous Peoples
development plans.
14. "IWRM" means integrated water resources management.
15. "MINEDU" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education.
16. "MINEDU Agreement" means the agreement entered into between ANA and MINEDU on
May 30, 2016, as referred to in Section I.B.I. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
17. "NWRIS" means the Borrower's National Water Resources Information System (Sistema
Nacional de Informaci6n de Recursos Hidricos), created by the Water Resources Law for
purposes of providing a technological platform to collate water resources data, process and
analyze information to inform decisions related to water resources planning and management.
18. "Operational Manual" means the manual referred to in Section I.D of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, as said manual may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
19. "Pilot River Basins" means a subset of the Selected River Basins, and include the river basins
of Chancay-Lambayeque, Chancay-Huaral, Quilca-Chili, Tumbes, Chira-Piura, and
Locumba-Sama-Caplina in the Pacific watershed, and the river basins of Alto Mayo, Mantaro,
Urubamba- Vilcanota, and Pampas in the Atlantic watershed, and any other basin as agreed
between the Borrower and the Bank.
20. "PIU" 
means the Project Implementation Unit 002 -Water 
Resources Management
Modernization (UE-002 Modernizacidn de la Gestidn de los Recursos Hidricos) created for
the Water Resources Management Modernization Project and designated as the PIU for this
Project, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
-18-
21. "Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-
consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
22. "Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated February
27, 2017 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.25
of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance
with the provisions of said paragraphs.
23. "Project Steering Committee" or "PSC" means Grupo de Trabajo denominado Consejo
Directivo the committee referred to in Section I.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, or any
successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
24. "Resettlement" means the impact of: (i) an involuntary taking of land under the Project, which
taking causes affected persons to have their: (a) income source or means of livelihood adversely
affected (whether or not the affected persons must move to another location); or (b) right, title
or interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other
fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (c) access to
productive assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (d) business, occupation,
work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (ii) an
involuntary restriction of access to natural resources in legally designated parks and protected
areas (including reserves) which causes an adverse impact on the livelihoods of the affected
persons.
25. "Selected Dams" means six large dams (San Lorenzo, Poechos, Tinajones, Gallito Ciego,
Condoroma and El Frayle) and two small dams (Huascacocha and Sutunta) located in the
Borrower's Pacific watershed, as further described in the Operational Manual.
26. "Selected River Basins" means the river basins which meet the eligibility criteria set forth in
the Operational Manual to benefit as result of the activities carried out under Parts I (a) and 2
of the Project.
27. "SENAMHI" means Servicio Nacional de Meteorologia e Hidrologia del Perui, the Borrower's
National Meteorology and Hydrology Service, an agency created by the Borrower's Law
Decree No. 17532 dated March 25, 1969 (as such Law Decree has been amended to the date
of this Agreement), which centralizes the meteorological and hydrological activities in the
Borrower's territory.
28. "SENAMHI Agreement" means the agreement entered into between ANA and SENAMHI on
March 10, 2017, as referred to in Section I.B.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
29. "STEP" - Systematic Tracking on Exchanges in Procurement means the Bank's system for the
execution of the Procurement Plan.
30. "Water Resources Law" means the Borrower's Law No. 29338, dated March 30, 2009 and
published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on March 31, 2009.
-
9-
31. "Water Resources Management Modernization Project" means the Project supported by Loan
No. 7701-PE pursuant to the Loan Agreement entered between the Borrower and the Bank on
December 3, 2009, as amended.
32. "Water Resources Monitoring Center - Level 1" means Sala de Monitoreo Hidrico Nivel 1, a
center that is equipped with computers and connected to the NWRIS, to carry out analysis for
planning and monitor quantity and quality of WRM in the pertinent Pilot River Basin.
33. "WRM" means water resources management.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually
in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition
of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.0 1(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01
(a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition
of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
-20-
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any surcharge, any
prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a
Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount
payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and
Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
