OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8720-CN
Loan Agreement
(Gansu Technical and Vocational Education and Training Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
a 
, 2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8720-CN
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
2  
se > 
, 2017, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
OF CHINA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE H -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred and twenty million
dollars ($120,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08
of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule
1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, however, that the interest payable shall in no event be less than zero
percent (0%) per annum; and provided furthermore that, upon a Conversion of all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the
Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance
-2-
remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty
days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as
provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 1 and September 1 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the piincipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.09. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure
Limit (as said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of
this Section), the Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of
one half of one percent (0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess
-3-
Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for
.
each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if any)
shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set
forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during
which the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit,
the product of: (A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the
ratio of all (or, if the Bank so determines, a portion) of the Loan
to the aggregate amount of all (or the equivalent portions) of the
loans made by the Bank to the Borrower and to other borrowers
guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an exposure
surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined from
time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the
Bank's financial exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded,
would subject the Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined
from time to time by the Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total
financial exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by
the Bank.
ARTICLE I 
-
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the
Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions
and the Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
-4-
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Facsimile:
(86-10) 6855-2077
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.
-5-
AGREED at Beijing, People's Republic ofChina, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
_ 
__
Title: 
.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FORA'A
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
47-'FA.-
Title: 
C 
w
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve the quality and relevance of Project
Schools in Gansu and strengthen the school and industry linkage.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A. Strengthen the Demand-Driven TVET System
1. 
Promote the coordination and management of TVET through the piloting of a skills
council, as an advisory board to provide select skills' demand information in
Lanzhou New District, and provision of support to the Project Leading Group to
organize campus visits and report on the Project's implementation progress.
2. 
Promote provincial policy development through the carrying out of evidence-
based policy studies on selected key topics related to TVET.
3. 
Provision of support to strengthen and institutionalize the linkages between
schools and industry by, inter alia: (a) establishing or improving School-Industry
Collaboration Committees and sector specific Technical Advisory Committees; (b)
piloting new models of school-industry cooperation based on inputs from the
school-industry collaboration and the characteristics of Project Schools; and (c)
evaluating school-industry collaboration.
Part B. Strengthen TVET Delivery through Comprehensive School Reforms
1. 
Improving management and instructional capacity in delivering quality training
programs through, inter alia: (a) preparing professional development plans for
teachers and administrators, and setting up incentive mechanisms for high
performance; and (b) provision of domestic and overseas training, and organizing
various capacity-building programs targeting several cohorts of teachers and
administrators.
2. 
Carrying out of activities aimed - at updating the curriculum, pedagogy and
assessment at Project Schools.
3. 
Enhancing school management through, inter alia: (a) provision of technical
assistance to support the drafting or updating of school charters and other relevant
regulations; 
(b) 
conducting school management diagnosis 
to streamline
management and personnel arrangements, 
and establishing a digitalized
management system; and (c) sharing experience on quality and relevance
improvements with selected Partner Schools.
-7-
4. 
Expansion and upgrading of facilities through, inter alia: (a). construction of
training centres within selected Project Schools; (b) providing key training
equipment to support quality training programs; and (c) developing school
guidelines on the management of training facilities and equipment.
Part C. Project Management and Monitoring and Evaluation
1. 
Facilitating Project management through the carrying out of capacity building
activities for Project Management Office (PMO) and Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) staff, and support knowledge dissemination activities at the provincial level.
2. 
Provision of technical assistance to support the monitoring and evaluation of the
Project activities, including the carrying out of an impact evaluation.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Financing Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall make available to the Project Implementing Entity the
proceeds of the Loan, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including the following principal terms:
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars or any other
Currency as the Loan may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion (such principal amount determined on the date, or
respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of the value of the
currency or currencies so withdrawn.
(b) 
The principal amount so made available (including an amount equal to the
fee paid pursuant to Section 2.03 and any premia under Section 2.08 (c) of
this Agreement) shall be recovered over a period of thirty (30) years,
inclusive of a grace period of five and a half (5.5) years.
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest
applicable from time to time- to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of
Section 2.05 of this Agreement.
(d) 
A Commitment Charge shall be charged equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to: (a) manage, operate,
monitor, transfer and reconcile the proceeds of the Loan made available to it
pursuant to paragraph I above in accordance with arrangements and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank; (b) take all required actions, including provision of timely.
consents and approvals as may be necessary, to facilitate the utilization of said
Loan proceeds and the implementation of the Project, and to comply with its
undertakings under the Project Agreement; and (c) maintain all relevant records
and documents related to the Loan and the Project and provide promptly such
documents and records, including all other information, as may be requested by
the Borrower or the Bank from time to time.
-9-
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Safeguards
The Borrower shall take, and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to take,
all measures necessary to comply with, or all measures necessary to enable the
Project Implementing Entity to comply with, the provisions of Section ID of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section II. 
Project Monitoringz Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to monitor and evaluate
the progress of the Project. and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the
indicators set forth in the Project Implementation Plan. Each Project Report shall
cover the period of one-calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not
later than sixty (60) days after the end of the period covered by such report.
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than three (3) months after the Closing Date.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the Bank, as part
of the Project Report, not later than sixty (60) days after the end of each calendar
semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the semester,
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to have its Financial
Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the
General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period
of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such
period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such
period. The Borrower shall make, or cause the Project Implementing Entity to
- 10 -
make, the audited Financial Statements, publicly available in a timely fashion and
in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections 11, 111, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitivr Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive
Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set forth in the box below; (b)
Shopping; and (c) Direct Contracting.
The procedures applicable to the procurement of goods, works, and non-
consulting services under contracts awarded on the basis of National
Competitive Bidding ("NCB") shall be the open tendering procedures set forth
in the Borrower's Law on Tendering and Bidding promulgated by its Order
No. 21 dated August 30, 1999; provided, however, that such procedures shall
be subject to the provisions of Section I, Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of Section III,
and Appendix I of the Procurement Guidelines, and the additional provisions
-11- 
-
in the following. In the event of a conflict between the Borrower's procedures
and these NCB Procedure Modifications, the latter shall govern.
(i) 
Eligibility to participate in a procurement process and to be awarded a
Bank-financed contract shall be as defined under Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines; accordingly, no bidder or potential bidder
shall be declared ineligible for such contract for reasons other than those
provided in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines. No restriction
based on nationality of bidders and/or origin of goods shall apply, and
foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate in NCB without
application of restrictive conditions.
(ii) 
All invitations to prequalify or bid shall be advertised in a national
newspaper of wide circulation in the Borrower's country, or on a widely
used website / electronic portal with free national and international
access acceptable to the Bank except for goods or non-consulting
services contracts that are estimated to cost less than $300,000
equivalent each, or works contracts that are estimated to cost less than
$2,000,000 each, which may be advertised in a provincial daily
newspaper. Such advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for
prospective bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding documents and
prepare and submit their responses. In any event, a minimum of thirty
(30) days shall be given to bidders between the date of such
advertisement (or the date of availability of bidding documents,
whichever is later) and the deadline for the submission of bids, and the
advertisement and bidding documents shall specify the deadline for the
submission of bids. In the case of such advertisement on a website /
electronic portal, the notice shall remain readily accessible nationally
and internationally until at least the deadline for the submission of bids.
Potential bidders shall be allowed to inspect and purchase bidding
documents at any time prior to the deadline for the submission of bids.
(iii) 
Standard Bidding Documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
(iv) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of evaluating the
qualification of each bidder shall be specified in detail in the bidding
documents.
(v) 
Prequalification procedures and documents acceptable to the Bank shall
be used for large, complex and/or specialized works. Verification of the
information upon which a bidder was prequalified, including current
commitments, shall be carried out at the time of contract award, along
with the bidder's capability with respect to personnel and equipment.
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification documents shall be allowed to bid, and there shall be no
-12-
limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. Where pre-qualification is
not used, the qualification of the bidder who is recommended for award
of contract shall be assessed by post-qualification, applying the
qualification criteria stated in the bidding documents.
(vi) 
Registration shall not be used to assess bidders' qualifications. A bidder
shall not be required to register as a condition for inspecting or
purchasing bidding documents, submitting its bid or receiving contract
award. A bidder determined to be the lowest evaluated responsive
bidder, shall be given reasonable opportunity of registering (if required)
before contract signing without any let or hindrance. Bidding shall not
be restricted to any particular class of contractors, and non-classified
contractors shall also be eligible to bid.
(vii) 
No margins of preference of any sort shall be given to bidders, such as
on the basis of their location, place of incorporation, or affinity with the
geographical area in which the Project activities will take place.
(viii) All bidders who are awarded contracts for works and single-
responsibility contracts shall be required to provide performance
security in an amount sufficient to protect the Borrower or the Project
Implementing Entity / Entities, as the case may be, in case of breach of
contract by the contractor, and the bidding documents shall specify the
required form and amount of such security and any other potential
damages for such breach.
(ix) 
Bidders shall be allowed to submit bids by mail or in person.
(x) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an
opportunity to be present (either in person or through their
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not be
required to be present at the bid opening.
(xi) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding documents
and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the form of pass/fail
requirements.
(xii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price exceeds
any cost estimate or falls outside any margin or bracket of prices or
average bids established by the Borrower or the Project Implementing
Entity / Entities, as the case may be. Rejection of all bids or re-bidding
shall not be allowed solely because the number of bids is less than three
(3), and rejection of all bids or rebidding shall not take place without
the Bank's prior written agreement.
- 13 -
(xiii) Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive
bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of
capability and resources and whose bid has been determined: (A) to be
substantially responsive to the bidding documents; and (B) to offer the
lowest evaluated cost. The winning bidder shall not be required, as a
condition of award, to undertake responsibilities for work or to assume
other obligations not stipulated in the bidding documents or otherwise
to modify the bid as originally submitted. No negotiations shall be
permitted except with the Bank's no-objection.
(xiv) In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding document
and contract shall include provisions stating the Bank's policy to
sanction firms or individuals found to have engaged in fraud and
corruption as set forth in the Procurement Guidelines.
(xv) 
In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding document
and contract shall include provisions stating the Bank's policy with
respect to inspection and audit of accounts, records and other documents
relating to the submission of bids and contract performance.
(xvi) Government-owned enterprises in the Borrower's country may be
permitted to bid or submit a proposal of goods, works, or non-consulting
services if they can establish that they: (A) are legally and financially
autonomous; (B) operate under commercial law; and (C) are not a
dependent agency of the agency conducting the procurement.
(xvii) Matters such as subcontracting, joint venture relationships and
assignment of contract shall be handled in accordance with the bidding
documents.
(xviii) The results'of bid evaluation and contract award shall be published in
the national or provincial press (as provided under paragraph (ii) above)
or official gazette or a free and open-access website and shall identify:
(A) the name of each bidder who submitted a bid; (B) bid prices as read
out at bid opening; (C) the name of the bidder, and the evaluated price,
of each bid that was evaluated; (D) the names of bidders whose bids
were either rejected as non-responsive or not meeting qualification
criteria, or not evaluated, with the reasons therefor; and (E) the name of
the winning bidder and the. final total contract price, as well as the
duration and summary scope of the contract. Such publication shall be
within two (2) weeks of receiving the Bank's no-objection to the award
recommendation for contracts subject to the Bank's prior review, and
within two (2) weeks of the Borrower or the Project Implementing
Entity's award decision for contracts subject to the Bank's post review.
The bidding documents shall disclose the newspaper in which and I or
- 14 -
the electronic means by which the information on.contract award will
be published.
(xix) The Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity / Entities, as the case
may be, shall have in place an effective and independent protest
mechanism for bidders to protest. The bidding documents shall provide
the professional title and address of the official to whom such protests
should be sent.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based
Selection, which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used:
Procurement Methods
(a) 
Quality-Based Selection
(b) 
Selection Based on the Consultants' Qualifications
(c) 
Selection of Individual Consultants
(d) 
Single Source Selection (Firm and Individual)
(e) 
Fixed Budget Selection
(f) 
Least Cost Selection
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
-15-
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"Disbursement Guidelines for Investment Project Financing" dated February
2017, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
Financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Works, Goods, non-
consulting services, 
108,940,000 
100%
consultants' services,
Training and Workshops, and
Incremental Operating Costs
Amount payable
(2) Front-end Fee 
300,000 
pursuant to Section 2.03
of this Agreement in
accordance with Section
2.07(b) of the General
Conditions
(3) Interest and other charges on 
Amount payable
the Loan accrued on or 
10,760,000 
pursuant to
before the last Payment Date 
Sections 2.05 and 2.04
immediately preceding the 
of this Agreement,
Closing Date 
respectively, in
accordance with
Section 2.07 (c) of the
General Conditions
(4) Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Rate Collar premium 
Section 2.08(c) of this.
_ Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
120,000,000
-16-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $24,000,000 equivalent may
be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after September 29, 2016,
for Eligible Expenditures.
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2023.
-17-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each March 1 and September 1
Beginning March 1, 2023 
2.04%
through September 1, 2046
On March 1, 2047 
2.08%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
- 18 -
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
- 19 -
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Bank's Safeguards Policies" means the operational policies and procedures for
financing of development projects by the Bank at the date of this Agreement and
relating to Environmental Assessment, Natural Habitats, Pest Management,
Indigenous Peoples (Ethnic Minorities), Physical Cultural Resources, Involuntary
Resettlement, Forests, Safety of Dams, Projects on International Waterways, and
Projects in Disputed Areas, as published under www.WorldBank.org/opmanual.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
4. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
5. 
"Environmental and Social Management Plan" or the acronym "ESMP" means the
Borrower's environmental and social management plan dated November 25, 2016
which sets out, with respect to the Project, the measures for the protection of the
environment and avoidance of, or mitigation against, adverse impacts on physical
cultural resources and social aspects, as well as administrative and monitoring
arrangements, including the existence of grievance redress mechanisms, to ensure
the implementation of said plan, as such plan may be revised from time to time
with the agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any annexes, appendices,
or schedules to such plan.
6. 
"Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Project Implementing Entity, covering
the period January 1 through December 31.
7. 
"Gansu" means the Borrower's province of Gansu, or any successor thereto.
8. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
9. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means Project-related incremental operating costs
incurred on account 
of implementation, 
management 
and 
monitoring,
dissemination of Project-related information, office rental and office equipment
purchase or leasing, maintenance and repair, vehicle leasing, equipment
-20-
maintenance and repair, travel, including travel to Project sites, security,
communication, bank charges, advertising, and other costs directly associated with
the Project, but otherwise excluding the salaries of the Borrower's and the Project
Implementing Entity's civil servants.
10. 
"Lanzhou New District" means the administrative area of such name located in
Lanzhou, Gansu Province, under the jurisdiction of Gansu's provincial
government, and any successor thereto.
11. 
"Partner Schools" means, collectively, those schools that form part of a twinning
partner program launched under Part B.3 of the Project, and under which the
Project Schools may contribute knowledge, training and sharing of good practices
aimed at supporting the development of partner schools.
12. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
13. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
November 30, 2016 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
14. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means Gansu Province, or any successor thereto.
15. 
"Project Implementation Unit" or the acronym "PIU" means any of the Project
Implementation Units to be maintained by each of the Project Schools pursuant to
the provisions of Section I.B.2(d) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
16. 
"Project Implementation Plan" or the acronym "PIP" means the Project
Implementation Plan for the Project, dated February 27, 2017, which sets out
procedures and details regarding the implementation of the Project, its monitoring
and supervision, performance indicators, including financial management and
procurement aspects, as the same may be updated from time to time with the prior
written agreement of the Bank.
17. 
"Project Leading Group" means Gansu Foreign Loans Administration Committee,
the coordinating group established by the Project Implementing Entity to provide
overall leadership, policy guidance and institutional coordination in Project
preparation and implementation, and referred to in Section I.B.2(a) of the Schedule
to the Project Agreement, and any successor thereto.
18. 
"Project Management Office" and the acronym "PMO" mean the Project
Management Office established under the Project Implementing Entity's
-21-
Department of Education, and to be maintained pursuant to the provisions of
Section I.B.2(b) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
19. 
"Project Schools" means, collectively, the following learning institutions:
(i) Gansu Vocational College of Energy and Chemical Industry; (ii) Gansu
Provincial Finance and Trade Vocational College; (iii) Lanzhou University of Arts
and .Science; and (iv) Gansu Senior Technical School of Mechanics, or any
successors to the foregoing learning institutions; and "Project School" means,
individually, any of such respective Project Schools.
20. 
"Provincial Expert Team" means the team of experts responsible for providing
technical support and assisting the PMO with overall Project implementation, and
to be maintained pursuant to the provisions of Section I.B.2(c) of the Schedule to
the Project Agreement.
21. 
"School-Industry Collaboration Committees" means the committees to be set up
by the Project Implementing Entity and each of the Project Schools, with the goal
of assisting in the coordination of various cooperative activities between schools
and industries, through inter alia, conducting surveys, holding seminars and
preparing guidelines.
22. 
"Technical Advisory Committees" means the committees, to be set up by the
Project Implementing Entity and each of the Project Schools, with representation
from enterprises, industfial associations, and/or other civil society entities with the
main responsibilities of, inter alia, reviewing and revising competence-based
training curriculum standards and programs, arranging internship and practical
trainings in enterprises, and recommending part-time instructors from enterprises.
23. 
"Subsidiary Agreements" means, collectively, the agreements referred to in
Section I.A of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, as the same may be amended
from' time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental 
to said agreements; 
and "Subsidiary 
Agreement" means,
individually, any of said Subsidiary Agreements.
24. 
"TVET" means technical and vocational education and training.
25. 
"Training" means the costs of training activities under the Project, based on annual
work plans and budgets approved by the Bank, and attributable to seminars,
workshops, and domestic and overseas study trips, along with travel and
subsistence allowances for training participants, services of trainers, rental of
training facilities, preparation and reproduction of training materials, and other
activities directly related to course preparation and implementation.
-22-
Section I. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to iead as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date ofthe Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. 
The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01 (b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), the Commitment Charge, any
surcharge, any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early
-23 -
termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any
premium payable upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower.
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
