OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8679-7E
Loan Agreement
(Trans-Anatolian Natural Gas Pipeline Project)
between
SOUTHERN GAS CORRIDOR CLOSED JOINT STOCK COMPANY (SGC)
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
,"/,2// 
2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8679-7E
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
1z,4u 
/ 
6, 
2017, between
SOUTHERN 
GAS 
CORRIDOR CLOSED JOINT STOCK COMPANY 
(SGC)
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank").
WHEREAS, the Bank is committed to supporting the Borrower in the development
of the Trans-Anatolian Natural Gas Pipeline, with the objective of diversifying
Azerbaijan's gas export markets and improving the security of Turkey's and South Eastern
Europe's energy supply as more fully described in this Agreement;
WHEREAS, the Borrower is a shareholder of the Trans-Anatolian Natural Gas
Pipeline pursuant to its Shareholder Agreement, as defined in this Agreement;
WHEREAS, in furtherance of the development of the Trans-Anatolian Natural Gas
Pipeline, the Borrower and TANAP Dogalgaz Iletim Anonim $irketi ("Project
Implementing Entity") intends to enter into a Subsidiary Agreement, as defined in this
Agreement, for the implementation of the Project described in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS, the Borrower has full authority to enter into and accept the
commitments set forth in this Agreement, recognizing that in each instance where the
Borrower is called to cause the Project to be implemented and/or to cause the Project
Implementing Entity to act, each such instance is within the context of the legal powers of
the Borrower to cause such implementation or action as provided by the Shareholders'
Agreement and the Subsidiary Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
-2-
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of four hundred million (400,000,000)
Dollars, as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement
("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided,
that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the
General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are June 1 and December I in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
-3-
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall cause all parts of the Project to be carried out by the Project
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and the Project Agreement (being for the purposes of the General
Conditions, the Project Implementing Entity's "Respective Part").
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
The Project Implementing Entity's Legislation, or any other law,
governmental order, regulation, or agreement (including its Articles of
Association, 
the Shareholders' 
Agreement, 
the Intergovernmental
Agreement, the Host Government Agreement, and the Subsidiary
Agreement) that establishes the Project Implementing Entity or that
impacts its ability to carry out the Project has been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
-4-
(b) 
The Charter of Southern Gas Corridor Closed Joint-Stock Company,
including any relevant legislation, governmental order, regulation or
agreement, that establishes the Borrower or that impacts its ability to carry
out its obligations under this Agreement is amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
Borrower's ability to perform any of its obligations under the Project.
(c) 
Any material event concerning one or more of the Associated Projects or
the Southern Gas Corridor Program generally arises that would be
reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on the ability of the
Project to meet the objective set forth in Schedule 1 of this Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following:
Any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement
occurs and is continuing for a period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has
been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following: the
Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and the Project
Implementing Entity.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following: the Subsidiary Agreement
has been duly authorized by the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity and
is legally binding upon the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity in
accordance with its terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its General Director.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Southern Gas Corridor CJSC
121 Heydar Aliyev Avenue
SOCAR Tower
4th floor
Baku, AZ1029
Republic of Azerbaijan
-5-
Facsimile:
994-12-521-1875
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
AGREED at Baku, Republic of Azerbaijan, as of the day and year first above written.
SOUTHERN GAS CORRIDOR CLOSED
JOINT STOCK COMPANY (SGC)
By
Aut6orized Representative
Name: 
___________
Title: 
aF/e?# 
/%F 
4
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: i
6 ry4,a 
~2
Title:__ _ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to diversify Azerbaijan's gas export markets and
improve the security of Turkey's and South Eastern Europe's energy supply.
Provision of support to the Borrower in financing its share of the Project, which
comprises the following:
1. 
An onshore and offshore main natural gas pipeline spanning from the Turkey-
Georgia Border to the Turkey-Greece border;
2. 
Two compressor stations along said pipeline for the transmission of 16 billion
cubic meters of gas per annum;
3. 
Gas off-take points at Eski ehir and Thrace;
4. 
Metering Stations: (a) a custody receiving border metering station at the entry point
on the Georgian border, (b) a metering station at Eski ehir off-take point, (c) a
metering station at Thrace off-take point, and (d) a custody delivery border
metering station at the exit point at Edirne on the Greek border;
5. 
Pig launcher and receiver facilities: (a) at each compressor station, (b) at the
custody receiving border metering station at the entry point, (c) at the custody
receiving border metering station at the exit point, (d) at Eski ehir off-take point,
(e) at each side of Dardanelle strait crossing, and (f) at three intermediate points
along the pipeline route;
6. 
Forty-nine block valve stations along said pipeline;
7. 
Communication and control mechanisms: (a) a supervisory control and data
acquisition system, and (b) a main control center in Ankara; and
8. 
Consulting services for Project related technical studies, design, engineering,
procurement, construction management, supervision and monitoring.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity, through the Subsidiary
Agreement, to maintain, at all times during the execution and until Project
Completion, responsibilities, structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank and
with qualified staff in adequate numbers, for the purposes of carrying out its
responsibilities under the Project, including those related to procurement, Loan
disbursements, Project financial management, and Project monitoring, evaluation
and reporting.
2. 
The Borrower shall maintain, either itself or through an agent or affiliate acting on
its behalf, at all times during the execution and until Project Completion, a
dedicated technical team to oversee the implementation of the Project and to liaise
with the Project Implementing Entity to facilitate Project implementation,
including for the accounting and registering of payments.
3. 
(a) 
Recognizing the Borrower's intended sale of seven percent (7%) of its
shares in the Project Implementing Entity to SOCAR Turkey Enerji A.$,
in and of itself will not materially and adversely affect the ability of the
Borrower or of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any of its
obligations arising under or entered into pursuant to the Loan Agreement
or the Project Agreement, or to achieve the objectives of the Project, the
Borrower shall promptly, and in any event no later than seven (7) days
after such occurrence, notify the Bank, and furnish to the Bank evidence
reasonably requested by the Bank, of such sale.
(b) 
The reduction of the Borrower's shares in the Project Implementing Entity
resulting from the sale referred to in Section 1.A.3(a) of this Schedule shall,
from the effective date of such sale, result in an equivalent reduction in the
percentage of the Project expenditures to be financed from the Loan
proceeds, as set forth in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(c) 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
the reduced percentage referred to in Section I.A.3(b) of this Schedule as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement
1 .
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make part of the
proceeds of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity in accordance
-8-
with a subsidiary agreement ("Subsidiary Agreement") between the Borrower and
the Project Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions approved by the
Bank, which shall include inter alia:
(a) 
the Project Implementing Entity's undertaking to comply with the
safeguards, fiduciary and technical requirements applicable to the Project
in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the Project
Agreement;
(b) 
the Project Implementing Entity's undertaking to carry out the Project
activities financed in whole or in part by the proceeds of the Loan in
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines,
including ensuring that all contractors that will receive proceeds from the
Loan have expressly agreed to comply with the provisions of the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines, including the Bank's right to inspect all accounts,
records and other documents relating to the Project that are required to be
maintained pursuant to the Loan Agreement and to have them audited by,
or on behalf of, the Bank; and
(c) 
the Borrower's undertaking to make the necessary proceeds of the Loan
available to the Project Implementing Entity.
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the
Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure, and cause the Project Implementing Entity to ensure,
that the Project activities financed in whole or in part by the proceeds of the Loan
are carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines.
D. 
Safeguards
1 .
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 5.01(b) of the General Conditions,
the Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the Project
in accordance with the provisions and recommendations of the Environmental and
Social Impact Assessment ("ESIA") Package, including the Resettlement Action
Plans ("RAPs").
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure, or cause the Project Implementing Entity to ensure,
that any contractors carrying out the Project shall perform their work in accordance
-9-
with the technical and environmental practices applicable to the Project, as set forth
in the ESIA Package, including the RAPs.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to monitor and evaluate
the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions, and on the basis of indicators
confirmed by the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity and acceptable to
the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one month, and shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than one month after the end of the period covered
by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1 .
The Borrower shall maintain, and cause the Project Implementing Entity to
maintain, a financial management system in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of
each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering
the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall prepare its entity financial statements and the Project Financial
Statements in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Bank. The
Borrower shall have its entity financial statements, and shall cause the Project
Implementing Entity to have the Project Financial Statements, audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09(b)(i) of the General Conditions.
Pursuant to Section 5.09(b)(ii) of the General Conditions, each audit of the
Borrower's entity financial statements and of the Project Financial Statements
shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower and the Project,
respectively. The audited entity financial statements and audited Project Financial
Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than seven
(7) months after the end of such period, and pursuant to Section 5.09(b)(iii) of the
General Conditions, the Project Financial Statements shall be made publicly
available in an abridged form agreeable to the Borrower and the Bank.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
All goods, works, non-consulting services and consulting services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in the Procurement
Regulations and the provisions of the Procurement Plan.
-10-
B. 
Contracts for goods, works, non-consulting services and consulting services:
(a) that are included in the Procurement Plan, dated November 3, 2016 (as they
have been determined by the Bank to be directly related to the Project, and
procured by the Project Implementing Entity in accordance with Section V,
paragraphs 5.1 and 5.2, Advance Contracting and Retroactive Financing, of the
Procurement Regulations); and (b) whose related contractors, suppliers and
consultants have agreed to comply with the Anti-Corruption Guidelines, as
required under Section I.B of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, are eligible
for Bank financing.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised
from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant
to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
-11-
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) 
financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non- 
399,000,000 
58%
consulting services, and 
(subject to the Borrower's
consulting services for the 
maintenance of its 58%
Project 
share in the Project
Implementing Entity)
51%
(as of the date of the
Borrower's sale of 7% of
its shares in the
Project Implementing
Entity to SOCAR Turkey,
pursuant to Section
I.A.3(b) and 3(c) of this
Schedule)
(2) Front-end Fee 
1,000,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(3) Interest Rate Cap or 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar 
Section 2.08(c) of this
premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $240,000,000 may be made
for payments made prior to this date but on or after July 1, 2015, for Eligible
Expenditures under Category (1).
2. 
The Closing Date is July 31, 2021.
-12-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each June I and December 1
Beginning June 1, 2022 
2%
through December 1, 2046
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
-13-
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
-14-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as
of July 1, 2016.
2. 
"Associated Projects" means the three infrastructure projects associated with the
Project, namely (a) the Shah Deniz 2 gas field in Azerbaijan, (b) the South
Caucasus Pipeline Expansion to run through Azerbaijan and Georgia to Turkey's
eastern border, and (c) the Trans-Adriatic Pipeline to run from Turkey's western
border through Greece and Albania to Italy, all of which, together with the Trans-
Anatolian Natural Gas Pipeline, collectively form the Southern Gas Corridor
Program.
3. 
"Biodiversity Action Plan" or "BAP" means the Project Implementing Entity's
Biodiversity Action Plan for the Project.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
5. 
"Charter of Southern Gas Corridor Closed Joint-Stock Company" means the
document dated March 2014, which was registered on March 31, 2014, with
Ministry of Taxes of the Republic of Azerbaijan, State Registrar's Office of
Commercial Legal Entities under Baku City, Registration Number 1701605251,
and which sets forth the legal framework of the Borrower, as may be amended
from time to time.
6. 
"Environmental and Social Impact Assessment" or "ESIA" means the report,
prepared and endorsed by the Project Implementing Entity, setting forth the
guidelines and procedures to assess and address the environmental impacts
(including impacts on physical cultural resources) of Project activities (including
works to be performed).
7. 
"Environmental and Social Management Plans" or "ESMPs" means the plans,
adopted by the Project Implementing Entity for the Project, including its
environmental and social action plan, environmental and social monitoring plan,
and cultural heritage management plan, construction contractors' environmental
sub-management plans, pursuant to the Project's Environmental and Social Impact
Assessment, in respect of activities to be carried out by the Project Implementing
Entity under the Project; such plans define the detailed measures to manage
potential environmental and social risks and mitigate, reduce and/or offset adverse
environmental and social impacts associated with the implementation of said
activities under the Project, together with adequate institutional, monitoring and
-15-
reporting arrangements capable of ensuring proper implementation of, and regular
feedback on compliance with, its terms, as the same may be amended and
supplemented from time to time.
8. 
"ESIA Package" means the package of social and environmental safeguard
documents for the Project that was disclosed on the Project Implementing Entity's
website on July 22, 2016, and disclosed through the Bank's external website on
July 29, 2016, and that consists of: (a) the ESIA (updated and disclosed on the
Project Implementing Entity's website on October 12, 2016, and on the Bank's
external website on October 24, 2016); (b) the BAP (updated and disclosed on the
Project Implementing Entity's website on October 12, 2016, and on the Bank's
external website on October 24, 2016); (c) the RAPs (updated and disclosed on the
Project Implementing Entity's website on October 26, 2016 (in English) and on
November 4, 2016 (in Turkish), and on the Bank's external website on October
31, 2016 (in English); and (d) the ESMPs, all such documents as defined in this
Annex and found acceptable to the Bank, and as such documents may be amended
from time to time.
9. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
10. 
"Host Government Agreement" means the "Host Government Agreement between
the Government of the Republic of Turkey and The Trans Anatolian Gas Pipeline
Company B.V. Concerning Trans-Anatolian Natural Gas Pipeline System" (as
defined under the term "Project Implementing Entity's Legislation" herein), as
may be novated and/or amended from time to time.
11. 
"Intergovernmental 
Agreement" means the Intergovernmental 
Agreement
between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the
Republic of Azerbaijan Concerning the Trans-Anatolian Natural Gas Pipeline
System (as defined under the term "Project Implementing Entity's Legislation"
herein), as may be amended from time to time.
12. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Project Implementing Entity's procurement plan
for the Project, dated November 3, 2016, and provided for under Section IV of the
Procurement Regulations, as the same may be updated from time to time in
agreement with the Bank.
13. 
"Procurement Regulations" means the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for
Borrowers under Investment Project Financing", dated July 1, 2016.
14. 
"Project Completion" means the start of commercial operations of the Project.
15. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means TANAP Dogalgaz Iletim Anonim $irketi
(or TANAP Natural Gas Transmission Company), duly incorporated in Turkey
-16-
and registered in Ankara Trade Registry, No. 322965, whose Articles of
Association were initially published in the Turkey Trade Registry Gazette, dated
December 24, 2012, as may be amended from time to time.
16. 
"Project Implementing Entity's Legislation" means the Project Implementing
Entity's Articles of Association referred to in paragraph 15 of this Annex, the
"Intergovernmental Agreement Between the Government of the Republic of
Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan Concerning The Trans-
Anatolian Natural Gas Pipeline System" and its attachment "Host Government
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and Trans
Anatolian Gas Pipeline Company B.V. Concerning The Trans Anatolian Natural
Gas Pipeline System," both signed on June 26, 2012, and approved by the Republic
of Turkey pursuant to its Law No. 6375, dated January 2, 2013 (Law No. 6375 was
published in the Republic of Turkey's Official Gazette on January 17, 2013, and
the Agreements were published in said Official Gazette on March 19, 2013), in
each case as may be novated and/or amended from time to time.
17. 
"Resettlement Action Plans" or "RAPs" means the documents, adopted by the
Project Implementing Entity for the Project's route and for the Project's above-
ground installations, as mandated by the ESIA and/or the Project Agreement,
including any addendums, containing, inter alia, a program of actions, measures
and policies 
for compensation 
and resettlement of persons, 
including
compensation and resettlement arrangements, budget and cost estimates, and
sources of funding, together with adequate institutional, monitoring and reporting
arrangements capable of ensuring proper implementation of, and regular feedback
on compliance with its terms for each site.
18. 
"Shareholders' Agreement" means the Shareholder's Agreement Relating To The
Trans-Anatolian Gas Pipeline Project, dated March 13, 2015, as may be amended
from time to time.
19. 
"Southern Gas Corridor Program" means the program consisting of the Project and
the Associated Projects.
20. 
"SOCAR Turkey Enerji A.$" or "SOCAR Turkey" means the company duly
incorporated in Turkey, and registered in the Istanbul Trade Registry, No. 609880,
whose Articles of Association were initially published in the Turkey Trade
Registry Gazette, dated December 28, 2006, as may be amended from time to time.
21. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-17-
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan
amount at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement
(the "Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective
dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan
Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-
annually in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified
in the Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties
to the Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions,
including (but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance,
interest, the Front-end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default
Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a
Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread
-18-
Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount
payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
