OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8723-IN
Loan Agreement
(West Bengal Support to Institutional
Strengthening of the Gram Panchayat Program - Phase II)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
ARCH 
2-2 
,2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8723-IN
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
k ft&-i 2.2., 2017, between INDIA ("Borrower") and
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT
("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred ten million Dollars
($210,000,000) ("Loan"), to assist in financing the program described in Schedule
1 to this Agreement ("Program").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall
be deposited by the Bank into an account specified by the Borrower and acceptable
to the Bank.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance
remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty
(30) days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as
provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.
-2-
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure
Limit (as said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of this
Section), the Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of one
half of one percent (0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess Exposure
Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for each said
day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if any) shall be
payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set forth
below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during
which the'Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit,
the product of: (A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the
ratio of all (or, if the Bank so determines, a portion) of the Loan
to the aggregate amount of all (or the equivalent portions) of the
loans made by the Bank to the Borrower, and to other borrowers
guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an exposure
surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined from
time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the
Bank's financial exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded,
would subject the Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined
from time to time by the Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total
financial exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by
the Bank.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Program. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause the Program to be carried out by West Bengal in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Program is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is any of the following officials: the Secretary,
Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under
Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs of the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Secretary
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance, Government of India
North Block
New Delhi 110001, India
Facsimile:
91-11-2309 4075
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at 
I 
,India, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
A A-J- AA-M PtIK
Title: 
o1T'r 
5E64 drAhP
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND EVELOPMENT
By
Autho ed Representative
Name: 
,-usHPo%-i 
A6 Iso
Title: 
P'%-T/J4 
COVA.7-rg- 
si Rere 
WbH
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Description
The objective of the Program is to strengthen the institutional and financial
capacities of Gram Panchayats across West Bengal.
The Program consists of the following activities:
1. 
Performance-based grants to Gram Panchayats based on comprehensive Annual
Performance Assessments.
2. 
Focused mentoring support for strengthening Gram Panchayat functioning.
3. 
Formal learning and trainings for PRI officials and representatives.
4. 
Institutional systems development and roll-out for improving local governance in
Gram Panchayats.
5. 
Ensuring adequate core staff in Gram Panchayats.
6. 
Development and implementation of a state-wide internal audit system for Gram
Panchayats through a risk-based approach.
7. 
Timely completion of Annual Performance Assessments for all Gram Panchayats.
8. 
Program management, coordination and monitoring.
9. 
Institutional strengthening support for timely completion of annual external audits
of all Gram Panchayats.
10. 
Citizen engagement and project communications.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Program Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arran2ements under the Program
A. 
Program Fiduciary, Environmental and Social Systems
1. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the
Borrower shall cause the Program to be carried out by West Bengal in accordance
with financial management, procurement and environmental and social
management systems acceptable to the Bank including those set out in the ESSA,
Program Operations Manual and Program Action Plan ("Program Fiduciary,
Environmental and Social Systems") which are designed to ensure that:
(a) 
the Loan proceeds are used for their intended purposes, with due attention
to the principles of economy, efficiency, effectiveness, transparency, and
accountability; and
(b) 
the actual'and potential adverse environmental and social impacts of the
Program are identified, avoided, minimized, or mitigated, as the case may
be, all through an informed decision-making process.
B. 
On lending Arrangements
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Program, the Borrower shall make the proceeds
of the Loan available to West Bengal in accordance with the Borrower's standard
arrangements for developmental assistance to the States of India.
2. 
Notwithstanding paragraph 1 above, in the event that any provision of this
Agreement, including the instructions that the Bank shall have specified by notice
to the Borrower pursuant to Section IH.A.1 of this Schedule, were to be found
inconsistent with the Borrower's standard arrangements for development
assistance to the States of India, the provisions of this Agreement and related
instructions shall govern.
3. 
The Borrower shall protect its own interests and the interests of the Bank to
accomplish the purpose of the Loan.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Program be carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Bank's "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and
-7-
Corruption in Program-for-Results Financing" dated February 1, 2012 and revised
July 10, 2015.
2. 
Notwithstanding the generality of paragraph I above, the Bank's right to
investigate allegations regarding the Program's activities and expenditures, and the
related access to needed persons, information, and documents will be observed in
accordance with the protocol dated July 30, 2008 between the Borrower and the
Bank and certain "mutatis mutandis" adjustments, inter alia, outlined below:
(a) 
the term "IDA" and "International Development Association" shall be
substituted by "1BRD" and "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development";
(b) 
in paragraph 3, the term "Joint Secretary (Procurement),. Ministry of
Health and Family Welfare", shall be substituted by the representative
designated by the Borrower;
(c) 
where applicable, the term "projects" shall be substituted by the term
"Program";
(d) 
where applicable, the term "Financing Agreements" shall be substituted
by the term "Loan Agreement";
(e) 
in paragraph 2, the following sentence is added at the paragraph's end: "At
the Bank's request, the Borrower shall take all necessary measures to
provide the Bank with access to the Program's underlying audit reports,
books, and records as well as relevant persons connected with the
Program."; and
(f) 
in paragraph 3, the expression "central sector projects" shall be substituted
by the term "Program".
D. 
Other Program Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
1 .
Without limitation on the generality of Part A of this Section I, the Borrower shall
ensure that West Bengal:
(a) 
shall carry out the Program in accordance with the institutional and
administrative arrangements set forth in the Program Agreement, the
Program Operations Manual and the Program Action Plan.
(b) 
shall not, except as the Bank. shall otherwise agree in writing, amend or
waive any of -such arrangements if, in the opinion of the Bank, such
-8-
amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the Program's
implementation or the achievement of the objectives thereof; and
(c) 
shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, the
implementation of the Program in accordance with the Program
Operations Manual and the Program Action Plan.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause West Bengal to ensure that an ISGPP Cell is established
and constituted within PRDD to ensure Program implementation and coordination.
The Borrower shall cause West Bengal to ensure that the ISGPP Cell has staff and
resources that are adequate to carry out its functions and responsibilities.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause West Bengal to ensure that PRDD is responsible for the
overall financial aspects of the Program, including the timely transfers of necessary
funding to execute the activities envisioned under the Program.
4. 
To oversee the progress and effectiveness of the Program, the Borrower shall cause
West Bengal to ensure that it constitutes and maintains an inter-departmental
Program Steering Committee ('TSC") with such composition, functions,
responsibilities, and terms of reference as are set out the Program Operations
Manual.
5. 
The Borrower shall cause West Bengal to adopt, and thereafter maintain
throughout the implementation of the Program, the Program Operations Manual.
6. 
The Borrower shall cause West Bengal to adopt guidelines or government orders,
acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank, for providing the performance-based
grants to Gram Panchayats and carrying out activities financed by such grants.
7. 
In the event of any inconsistency between: (i) the Program Operations Manual, the
ESSA, the Program Action Plan and any other guidelines or rules relating to
project implementation and (ii) any of the provisions of this Agreement, the
provisions of this Agreement shall govern.
E. 
Excluded Activities
1 .
The Borrower shall ensure that the Program excludes any activities which:
(a) 
in the opinion of the Bank, are likely to have significant adverse impacts
that are sensitive, diverse, or unprecedented on the environment and/or
affected people, including those that could require the construction of any
-9-
irrigation scheme leading to surface and ground water pollution or
incremental abstraction from international waterways; and
(b) 
involve the procurement of: (i) works, estimated to cost fifty million
Dollar ($50,000,000) equivalent or more per contract; (ii) goods, estimated
to cost thirty million Dollar ($30,000,000) equivalent or more per contract;
(iii) non-consulting services, estimated to cost twenty million Dollar
($20,000,000) equivalent or more per contract; or (iv) consultants'
services, estimated to cost fifteen million Dollar ($15,000,000) equivalent
or more per contract.
2. 
Without derogating from the generality of paragraph (1) above, the Borrower shall
cause West Bengal to ensure that no new irrigation activities or schemes (whether
involving ground water or surface works) under the Program are carried out in any
Gram Panchayats of Excluded Blocks set out in the Program Operations Manual.
Section II. 
Program Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation: Audits
A. 
Progress Reports for the Program
1 .
The Borrower shall cause West Bengal to monitor and evaluate the progress of the
Program and prepare Progress Reports in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators to be agreed
with the Bank. Without limiting Section 5.08 of the General Conditions, the
'Progress Reports shall cover the progress achieved by West Bengal in the
implementation of the Program, including the achievement of results and the
compliance of the Program Action Plan. Each Program Report shall cover the
period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later
forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.
2. 
Notwithstanding the provision of paragraph I above, the Borrower shall cause
West Bengal to:
(a) 
prepare, by no later than April 2020 or such later date as the Bank shall
request, and furnish to the Bank, a mid-term review report, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank, integrating the results of the monitoring
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (1) above on the
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Program arid the Program
Action Plan during the period preceding the date of such report, and setting
out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the
Program and the Program Action Plan, and the achievement of the
objectives of the Program, during the period following such date; and
- 10 -
(b) 
review with the Bank, by April 2020 or such later date as the Bank shall
request, the mid-term review report referred in sub-paragraph (a) above,
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient
completion of the Program and the achievement of the objectives thereof,
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the
Bank's views on the matter.
B. 
Financial Management and Audits for the Program
1 .
The Borrower shall maintain, and shall cause West Bengal to maintain, a financial
management system and prepare financial statements ("Financial Statements") in
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank,
in a manner to adequately reflect resources and expenditures related to the
Program.
2. 
Without limitation on the generality of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions, the
Borrower shall cause West Bengal to have its Financial Statements for the Program
audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General
Conditions. Each audit of the Program's Financial Statements shall cover the
period of one fiscal year of the Borrower, commencing with the fiscal year in
which the first withdrawal was made under the Preparation Advance for the
Program. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished
to the Bank not later than nine (9) months after the end of such period.
C. 
Verification Protocols for the Program
1 .
The Borrower shall cause West Bengal to:
(a) 
appoint and maintain an independent verification agency to undertake a
verification process, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to
the Bank, for the fulfillment of the Disbursement Linked Results set out in
the table in Part A of Section m of Schedule 2 of this Agreement; and
(b) 
furnish to the Bank corresponding verification reports, in form and
substance acceptable to the Bank by no later than the applicable dates set
out in Schedule 3 to this Agreement and Program Operations Manual.
Section III. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
-11 -
instructions as the Bank may specify from time to time by notice to the Borrower
to: (a) repay the,Preparation Advance; (b) pay the Front-end Fee; (c) pey-eaQh
/ nteract Patp rap or Intprpct Pot roll r premium; and (d) finance the results
l-"Disbursement Linked Results" or -"DLRs") achieved by West Bengal, as
measured against specific indicators ("Disbursement Linked Indicators" or
"DLIs"); all as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 of this Part A. -
2. 
The following table specifies each category of withdrawal of the proceeds of the
Loan (including the Disbursement Linked Indicators as applicable) ("Category"),
the Disbursement Linked Results for each Category (as applicable), and the
allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category:
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Eligible
Category 
Allocated (expressed 
Expenditures to be
in Dollars) 
Financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Disbursements linked to the achievement 
204,975,000 
N/A
of indicators (see Schedule 3):
(2) Preparation Advance to be repaid in 
4,500,000
accordance with Section 2.05 (a) of the
General Conditions (renumbered as such
pursuant to paragraphs 3 and 5 of Section
II of the Appendix to this Agreement and
relating to Refinancing Preparation
Advance)
(3) Front-end Fee 
525,000 
Amount payable
pursuant to Section
2.03 of this Agreement
in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(4) 
lar
(eh &fiq 1.5ft 
zKokan eal
-12-
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Eligible
Category 
Allocated (expressed 
Expenditures to be
in Dollars) 
Financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
TOTAL AMOUNT 
210,000,000 
.
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions for the Program
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
for purposes of Section 2.03 of the General Conditions (renumbered as
such pursuant to paragraph 6 of Section I of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Program Expenditures), for DLRs achieved
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $45,620,000 may be made for such DLRs
achieved prior to this date but on or after November 15, 2016; and
(b) 
for any DLR until and unless the Borrower has furnished evidence
satisfactory to the Bank that said DLR has been achieved.
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section U.B. 1(b) of this Schedule, if the Bank
is not satisfied that any of the DLR(s) set forth in Schedule 3 of this Agreement
has/have been achieved by the end of the respective Period in which said DLR(s)
is/are set to be achieved and/or the Allocated Amount(s) of such DLR(s) has/have
not been fully withdrawn, the Bank may, at any time, by notice to the Borrower,
decide, in its sole discretion, to:
(a) 
authorize the withdrawal of such lesser amount of respective unwithdrawn
Allocated Amount(s) then allocated to said DLR(s) which, in the opinion
of the Bank, corresponds to the extent of achievement of said DLR(s);
(b) 
withhold all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said
DLR(s) until such DLR(s) is/are satisfactorily met;
(c) 
reallocate all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said
DLR(s) to any other DLR(s); and/or
(d) 
cancel all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said
DLR(s).
-13-
3. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2022.
4. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section m, if.at any time after
the Closing Date the Borrower has failed to provide evidence satisfactory to the
-Bank that the Withdrawn Loan Balance does not exceed the total amount of
Program Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank,
refund to the Bank such excess amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance. The Bank
shall cancel the refunded amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance.
Schedule 3
Disbursement-Linked Indicators, Disbursement-Linked Results and Allocated Amounts Applicable to the Program
DLI 1: Number of phase II Gram 
0 
1,119 GPs 
1400 GPs 
1,634 GPs 
1,867 GPs 
NA
Panchayats (GPs1) that have
qualified Basic Mandatory
Conditions (BMCs) in Annual
Performance Assessment
Allocated amount 
43,530,000 
20.78% 
17,410,000 
8,710,000 
8,710,000 
8,700,000 
NA
DLI 2: Number of phase II Gram 
0 
888 GPs 
1,167 GPs 
1,400 GPs 
1,634 GPs 
NA
Panchayats that have qualified
Expanded Mandatory Conditions
(EMCs) and got access to
performance rewards in Annual
Performance Assessment
Allocated amount 
95,770,000 
45.72% 
17,410,000 
26,120,000 
26,120,000 
26,120,000 
NA
DLI 3: Percentage of activities 
No plan 
Annual learning 
70% of the 
75% of the 
80% of the 
85% of the
implemented as per PRDD's 
for annual 
and training plan 
activities 
activities 
activities 
activities
annual learning and training plan 
learning & 
developed as per 
implemented 
implemented 
implemented 
implemented
training 
POM
Phase II GPs refers to the GPs which are being included in ISGPP-II but were not covered in ISGPP-I.
-15-
la 
t 
wrrvi 
, 
n"
fir,~ 
~6 
I4"- 
Ya*3 
~:..%~ai4- 
.- 
Yar,5.
Alocte 
::i~.~ 
# '- 
0 t 19), 
'2unP020) 
.
Juht-30, 2021)
Allocated amount 
11,475,000 
5.47% 
2,400,000 
2,400,000 
2,400,000 
2,400,000 
1,875,000
DLI 4: Average number of 
0 
Annual mentor 
19 days of on- 
19 days of on- 
19 days of on- 
19 days of on-
annual mentoring input days per 
deployment plan 
site mentoring 
site mentoring 
site mentoring 
site mentoring
Gram Panchayat with 
for FY17 
input and 
input and 
input and 
input and
performance assessment 
developed as per 
performance of 
performance of 
performance of. 
performance of
POM. 
60% mentors 
60% mentors 
60% mentors 
60% mentors
assessed 
assessed 
assessed 
assessed
Allocated amount 
26,000,000 
12.41% 
5,200,000 
5,200,000 
5,200,000 
5,200,000 
5,200,000
DLI 5: Core institutional systems 
GPMS 
GPMS core 
PDA-based 
Web-based. 
Ease of doing 
Asset
implemented by PRDD across all 
core 
module 
Own Source 
integrated 
business module 
management
GPs 
module 
implemented and 
Revenue system 
system 
implemented 
module
(a) Gram Panchayat 
under 
used by 2,506 
implemented 
developed and 
and used by 
developed and
Management System 
implement 
GPs (category 
and used by 
used by 2,506 
2,506 GPs 
used by 2,506
(GPMS), Web-Based 
ation 
A/B) 
1,671 GPs 
GPs 
GPs
Monitoring System (WBMS)
& GIS
Allocated amount 
7,000,000 
3.34% 
1,400,000 
1,400,000 
1,400,000 
1,400,000 
1,400,000
(b) Grievance Redress 
Roadmap 
Online GRMS 
60% grievances 
65% grievances 
70% grievances 
75% grievances
Management System 
for GRMS 
implemented 
redressed .
redressed 
redressed 
redressed
(GRMS) 
developed
Allocated amount 
2,700,000 
1.28% 
300,000 
600,000 
600,000 
600,000 
600,000
- 16-
DLI 6: Annual Performance 
APA 
APA completed 
APA completed 
APA completed 
APA completed 
APA completed
Assessments (APA) conducted by 
under 
for 95% of GPs 
for 95% of GPs 
for 95% of GPs 
for 95% of GPs 
for 95% of GPs
PRDD 
progress 
and results 
and-results 
and results 
and results 
and results
included in 
included in 
included in 
included in 
included in
annual PBG 
annual PBG 
annual PBG 
annual PBG 
annual PBG
announcement 
announcement 
announcement 
announcement 
announcement
for West-Bengal 
for West Bengal 
for West Bengal 
for West Bengal 
for West Bengal
FY17/18 
FY18/19 
FY19/20 
FY2Q/21 
FY21/22
Allocated amount 
16,000,000 
7.63% 
3,200,000 
3,200,000 
3,200,000 
3,200,000 
3,200,000
DLI 7: Targeted number of 
0 
HR recruitment 
1195 vacancies 
1493 vacancies
vacant core Gram Panchayat 
plan and budget 
filled 
filled
positions filled 
finalized
> 
Executive Assistant
> 
GP Secretary
> 
Nirman Sahayak
Allocated amount 
2,500,000 
1.19% 
500,000 
1,000,000 
1,000,000
Total DLI based financing 
204,975,000 
97.85% 
47,820,000 
47,630,000 
48,630,000 
48,620,000 
12,275,000
Program Preparation Advance 
4,500,000 
2.15%
Total financing allocated: 
209,475,000 
100%
SCHEDULE 4
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying:
(a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment
Share for each Principal Payment Date.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each June 15 and December 15 
3.33%
Beginning June 15, 2025
through June 15, 2039
On December 15, 2039 
3.43%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that ariy proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as
of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding
on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall
be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.
-18-
APPENDIX
Section . Definitions
1. 
"Allocated Amounts" means the amount in Dollars allocated to each individual DLR, or
determined for each DLR pursuant to the formula detailed in Schedule 3 to this Agreement,
as such amount might be increased, reallocated and/or cancelled (whether partially or in its
entirety) by the Bank, from time to time as the case may be, in accordance with the
provisions of Section I.B.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2. 
"Annual Learning and Training Plans" means the annual consolidated learning and training
plans prepared by PRDD in accordance with criteria set out in the Program Operations
Manual on district-wise basis for Gram Panchayats and consolidated in one annual plan.
3. 
"Annual Mentoring Deployment Plans" means the annual plans prepared by PRDD in
accordance with criteria set out in the Program Operations Manual for the deployment of
mentors to Gram Panchayats.
4. 
"Annual Performance Assessment" means an annual assessment of Gram Panchayats'
performance undertaken by PRDD in accordance with criteria and method set out in the
Program Operations Manual.
5. 
"Basic Mandatory Conditions" means the basic mandatory qualifying conditions
prescribed in the Annual Performance Assessment for Gram Panchayats which are set out
in the Program Operations Manual.
6. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section H.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
7. 
"Category A Gram Panchayat" means a Gram Panchayat which is classified as Category
A in the Program Operations Manual.
8. 
"Category B Gram Panchayat" means a Gram Panchayat which is classified as Category B
in the Program Operations Manual.
9. 
"Core Positions" means specific posts or positions that are identified or designated to be
core positions in Gram Panchayats in the Program Operations Manual.
10. 
"Deployment Report" means the consolidated report in a format set out in the Program
Operations Manual on the deployment of mentors to Gram Panchayats under the Annual
Learning and Training Plans.
11. 
"Disbursement Linked Indicator" or "DLI" means each disbursement-linked indicator set
forth in the first column of the matrix set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
12. 
"Disbursement Linked Result" or "DLR" mean each of the disbursement-linked results set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement in the columns entitled "Results to be Achieved in
- 19 -
Year 1", "Results to be Achieved in Year 2", "Results to be Achieved in Year 3", Results
to be Achieved in Year 4" or "Results to be Achieved in Year 5", as applicable.
13. 
"ESSA" means the Environmental and Social Systems Assessment, dated December 22,
2016, and applicable to the Program setting forth the description of the Program's
activities, assessing the West Bengal's environmental and social management systems,
detailing the Program's environmental and social benefits, risks and impacts, and
recommending remedial measures to strengthen the social and environmental systems
performance.
14. 
"Excluded Blocks" means district blocks in West Bengal, which are identified in the
Program Operations Manual and in which the Borrower, West Bengal, and the World Bank
have agreed that no new irrigation activities or schemes (whether involving ground water
or surface works) will be carried out under the Program.
15. 
"Expanded Mandatory Conditions" means the expanded mandatory qualifying conditions
in the Annual Performance Assessment for Gram Panchayats as set out in the Program
Operations Manual.
16. 
"GIS" means Geographic Information System to be implemented in Gram Panchayats in
West Bengal.
17. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Sections II and m of this Appendix.
18. 
"GPMS" means West Bengal's Gram Panchayat Management System.
19. 
"Gram Panchayat" means the basic unit of rural local self-government constituted under
the West Bengal Panchayat Raj Act.
20. 
"GRMS" means the grievance redress management system developed by PRDD for the
redress of grievances in accordance with criteria set out in the Program Operations Manual.
21. 
"ISGPP Cell" means the cell constituted within PRDD with responsibility for Program
implementation and staffed with adequate specialists and professionals whose terms of
reference are set out in the Program Operations Manual.
22. 
"Panchayat Raj Institutions" or "PRI" means West Bengal's institutions for rural local
government constituted under the West Bengal Panchayat Act 1973.
23. 
"PDA-based OSR System" means West Bengal's own-source-revenue collection system
enabled by electronic devices for Gram Panchayats.
24. 
"PRDD" means West Bengal's Panchayats and Rural Development Department.
25. 
"Program" means the activities described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
-20 -
26. 
"Program Action Plan" means the plan agreed by West Bengal and the Bank, as contained
in the Program Operations Manual for the strengthening of the Borrower and Participating
States' sectoral and institutional frameworks, as the same may be amended with the prior
written concurrence of the Bank.
27. 
"Program Fiduciary, Environmental and Social Systems" means the systems, plans and
manuals for the Program referred to in Section L.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
28. 
"Program Operations Manual" means the manual acceptable to the Bank and referred to in
Section L.A of Schedule 2 of this Agreement with implementation and operational
arrangements for carrying out the Program, as the same may be amended from time to time
with the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
29. 
"WBMS" means Web-Based Monitoring System, which is a monitoring system
implemented by PRDD.
30. 
"West Bengal" means the Program Implementing Entity; i.e. the Borrower's State of West
Bengal.
31. 
"Year" means any of the Years 1 through 5 of Program implementation, as the context
shall determine.
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
Wherever used throughout the General Conditions, the term "the Project" is modified to
read "the Program", the term "the Project Agreement" is modified to read "the Program
Agreement", the term "Project Implementing Entity" is modified to read "the Program
Implementing Entity", the term "Project Report" is modified to read "Program Report";
and the term "Eligible Expenditures" is modified to read "Program Expenditures".
2. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the amendments set forth below.
3. 
Section 2.02, Special Commitment by the Bank, is deleted in its entirety, and the subsequent
Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
4. 
In Section 2.02 (originally numbered as Section 2.03), the heading "Applications for
Withdrawal or for Special Commitment" is replaced with "Applications for Withdrawal",
and the phrase "or to request the Bank to enter into a Special Commitment" is deleted.
5. 
The section originally numbered as Section 2.04, Designated Accounts is deleted in its
entirety, and the subsequent Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
6. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (originally numbered as Section 2.05), Eligible Expenditures
(renamed "Program Expenditures" in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Section II), is
modified to read: "(a) the payment is for the financing of the reasonable cost of
-21-
expenditures required for the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
in accordance with the provisions of the Legal Agreements; ".
7. 
The last sentence of Section 2.04 (originally numbered as Section.2.06), Financing Taxes,
is modified to read: "To that end, if the Bank at any time determines that the amount of any
such Tax is excessive, or that such Tax is discriminatory or otherwise unreasonable, the
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, exclude such amount or such Tax from the Program
Expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as required to ensure
consistency with such policy of the Bank."
8. 
Section 2.06 (originally numbered as Section 2.08), Reallocation, is modified to read:
"Notwithstanding any allocation of an amount of the Loan to a withdrawal category under
the Loan Agreement, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, reallocate any other amount
of the Loan to such category if the Bank reasonably determines at any time that such
reallocation is appropriate for the purposes of the Program.
9. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually
in arrears on each Payment Date."
10. 
Section 7.01, Cancellation by the Borrower, is modified to read: "The Borrower may, by
notice to the Bank, cancel any amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance."
11. 
Paragraph (d) of Section 7.03, Cancellation by the Bank, entitled "Misprocurement", is
deleted, and subsequent paragraphs are relettered accordingly.
12. 
Section 7.04, Amounts Subject to Special Commitment not Affected by Cancellation or
Suspension by the Bank, is deleted in its entirety, and subsequent Sections in Article VII
and references to such Sections are renumbered accordingly.
13. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all references to Section numbers and paragraphs are
modified, as necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above.
14. 
A new paragraph 19 is inserted with the following definition of "Commitment Charge",
afid the remaining paragraphs are renumbered accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
-22-
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
15. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section
3.01 (a).
16. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition
of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower."
17. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and
Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
18. 
Renumbered paragraph 88 (originally paragraph 87) of the Appendix, setting forth the
definition of "Special Commitment" is deleted in its entirety, and all subsequent paragraphs
are renumbered accordingly.
