OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8719-BW
Loan Agreement
(Emergency Water Security and Efficiency Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
,2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8719-BW
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
May 17 
, 2017, between REPUBLIC OF
BOTSWANA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred forty-five million five
hundred thousand United States Dollars ($145,500,000), as such amount may be
converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with
the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing
the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
not later than sixty days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
-2-
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; and (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall carry out the Project through its MLWS in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, and cause Parts A, B, and
C.2(b), C.3(b) and C.4(b) of the Project to be carried out by WUC in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
WUC's Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of WUC to
perform any of its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement.
(b) 
WUC shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations under the
Subsidiary Agreement.
(c) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this Agreement,
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable
that WUC will be able to perform any of its obligations under the
Subsidiary Agreement.
(d) 
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of WUC or for the
suspension of its operations.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following:
(a) 
Any event specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of Section 4.01 of this
Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 60 days after notice of
the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
(b) 
The event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement
occurs.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and WUC
in accordance with Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the Subsidiary
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and WUC and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and WUC in accordance with its terms.
5.03. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions,
this Agreement shall not become effective (and therefore legally binding on the
Borrower) until evidence satisfactory to the Bank has been furnished to the Bank
that the execution and delivery of this Agreement on behalf of the Borrower has
been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action, including
-4-
that it has been concluded in accordance with the provisions of the Borrower's
Public Finance Management Act.
5.04. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its minister at the time responsible for finance
and economic development.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
Private Bag 008 Gaborone
Botswana
Facsimile:
2673956082
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 64145(MCI) 
1-202-477-6391
-5-
AGREED at 
Gaborone 
Botswana 
, as of the
day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
Hon. Kenneth Matambo
Title: 
Minister of Finance and Economic Development
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By
uthorized Representative
Name: 
Makhtar Diop
Title: 
Regional Vice President
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve availability of water supply in drought
vulnerable areas, increase the efficiency of WUC, and strengthen wastewater management
in selected systems.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: Improve Availability of Water Supply and Efficiency of Services
Support for immediate and medium term investments and measures to mitigate the
impact of the drought by improving availability of water in settlements experiencing
extended periods of rationing and/or been forced to rely on water bowsers, including:
(i) water source management, optimization and development, including interlinking of
existing surface and ground water sources, as well as of supply schemes to ensure backup
supply and more sustainable production; (ii) expansion of water supply systems to reach
underserved or drought affected communities; and, (iii) measures to improve operational
efficiency, including reducing technical losses along transmission lines.
Part B: Improve Wastewater and Sludge Management
Support for: (i) strategic investments in refurbishment/rehabilitation of wastewater
treatment facilities to protect surface and groundwater sources and enable scaling up of
wastewater reclamation and reuse in the wastewater treatment facilities of Francistown and
Lobatse, which require urgent attention to prevent environmental contamination caused by
discharge of inadequately treated wastewater into nearby water courses (including those
feeding the Dikgatlhong dam); and (ii) rehabilitation and expansion of sludge management
facilities in Letlhakane.
Part C:Sector Reform and Institutional Strengthening
Support for strengthening the institutional, policy, and legal framework of the
sector to improve long-term water security and increased efficiency of services by
improving allocative efficiency, enhancing technological developments, strengthening
service delivery, and improving water resources stewardship and water demand
management, and strengthening capacity for implementation for timely and efficient
response to the drought, through:
1. 
Sector Reform: Support to MLWS to improve long term water security, operational
efficiency; and resilience to increasing scarcity and water shocks through support
for the development or roll out of sector policies, legislation and institutions in
support of reforms initiated in 2009, in particular, in the areas of enabling
-7-
regulation of water and wastewater services; monitoring and management of water
resources, and improving service delivery efficiency, and further development and
implementation of integrated water resources management strategies and policies.
2. 
Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building: (a) support to MLWS (DWA)
to strengthen the capacity to implement sector policies and strategies, improve
water resource planning and monitoring, groundwater development, monitoring,
and regulation; and (b) support to WUC for measures to strengthen capacity to
implement sector policies and strategies, including in relation to business strategy
development, efficiency improvements (e.g. through demand management, cost
recovery, energy reduction, non-revenue water, and innovative ICT use); and
refinement of utility water supply and waste water supply guidelines, policies,
regulations and procedures, targeting underperforming MCs.
3. 
Forward Planning - Technical Assistance and Studies: (a) Support to MLWS for
technical studies required to develop a pipeline of priority investments aimed at
improving long term water security, analyses and studies for the development of
options for improving water conservation and reuse; and (b) support to WUC for
master plans; feasibility studies; detailed designs; environmental and social impact
assessments, transaction design for PPPs, and expert panels.
4. 
Project Management. Support for Project implementation capacity to: (a) the
MLWS PMO; and (b) the WUC PMO, 
for Project management and
implementation, including, inter alia, for provision of Training and Operating
Costs.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
MLWSPMO
(a) 
The Borrower shall maintain at all times until completion of the Project,
the Programme Management Office within the MLWS with terms of
reference and resources satisfactory to the Bank ("MLWS PMO") with
overall responsibility for coordination of Project activities, and
consolidation of monitoring, and reporting for the Project, including:
(i) compiling each proposed Annual Work Plan and Budget for the Project
with inputs from WUC, and consolidating all reports and plans required
for the Project; (ii) carrying out Project procurement activities under Part
C.1, C.2(a), C.3(a), and C.4(a) of the Project for DWA activities and
maintaining a comprehensive procurement filing system for said Part of
the Project; and (iii) monitoring and evaluating the Project.
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) above of this
Section I.A.1, the Borrower shall: (i) ensure that the MLWS PMO shall at
all times be comprised of qualified and experienced personnel in adequate
numbers; and (ii) to this end, except as otherwise agreed with the Bank,
no later than two (2) months after the Effective Date contract additional
expertise in areas such as monitoring and evaluation, financial
management and procurement, all with qualifications and terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank.
(c) 
The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that, at all times
until completion of the Project, the MLWS PMO will work closely with
the DWA and WUC to ensure adequate capacity is in place for
implementation of activities under the Project.
2. 
WUCPMO
(a) 
For purposes of Parts A, B, and C.2(b), C.3(b), C.4(b) of the Project, the
Borrower shall maintain at all times until completion of the Project, the
Project Management Office within the WUC with terms of reference and
resources 
satisfactory to the Bank ("WUC PMO") with overall
responsibility for: (i) management of WUC implemented Project
activities, including full responsibility for the implementation of all sub-
-9-
projects under Parts A and B of the Project largely involving rehabilitation
and augmentation of existing water and wastewater systems currently
managed by WUC; (ii) coordination and facilitation of implementation of
sub-projects through WUC's 
existing 
structures 
and staff; 
and
(iii) carrying out Project procurement activities under Parts A, B, and
C.2(b), C.3(b), and C.4(b) of the Project and maintaining a comprehensive
procurement filing system for said Parts of the Project.
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section
I.A.2, the Borrower shall: (a) ensure that the WUC PMO shall at all times
be comprised of qualified and experienced personnel in adequate numbers;
and (b) to this end, except as otherwise agreed with the Bank, the Borrower
shall ensure that no later than two (2) months after the Effective Date,
WUC PMO shall contract additional expertise in areas such as financial
management, procurement, contract management, environmental and
social safeguards, monitoring and evaluation, engineering, and project
coordination, all with qualifications and terms of reference acceptable to
the Bank.
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement
1 .
In order to achieve the objectives of Parts A, B and C.2(b), C.3(b), C.4(b) of the
Project, the Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the Loan available to
WUC under a subsidiary agreement between the Borrower and WUC, under terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank ("Subsidiary Agreement"), which shall
include, without limitation, the following:
(a) 
Part of the proceeds of the Loan shall be made available to WUC on non-
reimbursable grant terms.
(b) 
The Borrower shall require WUC to: (i) maintain within its structure the
WUC PMO with composition, terms of reference and resources
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank which shall be comprised of
qualified and experienced personnel in adequate numbers, including, inter
alia, in the areas of financial management, procurement, engineering,
contract management, monitoring and evaluation, and environmental and
social safeguards; and, (ii) except as otherwise agreed with the Borrower
and the Bank, no later than two (2) months after the Effective Date, recruit
the additional staff required to manage Bank financed activities with
qualifications and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; (iii) require
the WUC PMO to be responsible for day-to-day coordination,
implementation and supervision of Parts A, B, and C.2(b), C.3(b), C.4(b)
of the Project, including, inter alia: (A) preparing proposed annual work
plans of activities for Parts A, B and C.2(b), C.3(b), C.4(b) for inclusion
-10-
in the Project, updating the procurement plan and related budgets,
consolidating 
Project 
Reports 
for said 
Parts 
of the 
Project;
(B) carrying out Project financial management and procurement activities
for said Parts of the Project; (C) ensuring compliance with the Safeguards
Instruments; (D) monitoring and evaluating Parts A, B, and C.2(b), C.3(b),
C.4(b) of the Project; and (E) submitting all plans, budgets and reports
required under (A), (B), (C), and (D) above of this paragraph 1(b) to
MLWS PMO for overall consolidation under the Project.
(c) 
The Borrower shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and those
of the Bank, including the requirement that WUC:
(i) 
carry out its activities under the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, economic,
financial, managerial, environmental and social standards and
practices satisfactory to the Bank, including, without limitation to
the generality of the foregoing, in accordance with the provisions
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of Loan
proceeds other than the Borrower, the Project Operations Manual,
and the Safeguards Instruments;
(ii) 
maintain policies and procedures, adequate to enable WUC to
monitor and evaluate in accordance with indicators acceptable to
the Bank, the progress of the activities carried out under the
Project and the achievement of its objectives;
(iii) 
(A) maintain a financial management system and prepare financial
statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting
standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the
activities carried out by WUC under the Project and (B) at the
Bank's or the Borrower's request, have such financial statements
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in
accordance 
with 
consistently 
applied 
auditing 
standards
acceptable to the Bank, and furnish promptly to the Borrower and
the Bank the financial statements as so audited; and
(iv) 
enable the Borrower and the ]Bank to inspect the activities carried
out by WUC under the Project, their operation and any relevant
records and documents; and prepare and furnish to the Borrower
and the Bank all such information as the Borrower or the Bank
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing.
-11-
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the
Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
3. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower and WUC shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions.
4. 
In the event of any conflict between the Subsidiary Agreement and the Loan
Agreement, the Loan Agreement shall prevail.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D. 
Project Operations Manual
1. 
No later than two (2) months after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall, and shall
cause WUC to, adopt the Project Operations Manual (POM) in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, and thereafter, carry out the Project, and cause WUC to
carry out its respective Parts of the Project, in accordance with the POM, which
shall include a financial management manual, monitoring and evaluation manual,
procurement manual, and shall contain detailed arrangements and procedures for:
(a) institutional coordination and day-to-day execution of the Project; (b) Project
budgeting, 
disbursement 
and 
financial 
management; 
(c) 
procurement;
(d) monitoring, evaluation, reporting and communication; and (e) such other
administrative, 
financial, technical 
and organizational 
arrangements 
and
procedures as shall be required for the Project as the same may be further updated
from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
2. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate, or waive the POM, or any provision thereof.
3. 
In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the POM and those of this
Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
E. 
Annual Work Plans and Budgets
1. 
Not later than November 30 in each calendar year (or one month after the Effective
Date for the first year of Project implementation), the Borrower shall prepare or
cause to be prepared for the purpose of forwarding to the Bank, a draft annual work
plan and budget for the Project (including Training and Operating Costs) for the
subsequent calendar year of Project implementation, of such scope and detail as
the Bank shall have reasonably requested.
-12-
2. 
The Borrower shall afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to review such draft
annual work plan and budget, and thereafter shall carry out (or cause to be carried
out) such annual work plan and budget during such subsequent calendar year as
shall have been approved by the Bank ("Annual Work Plan and Budget"). Only
those activities that are included in an Annual Work Plan and Budget shall be
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.
3. 
Any Training proposed to be included in an Annual Work Plan and Budget, shall
include, inter alia: (a) particulars of the Training envisaged; (b) the criteria for
selection of the personnel to be trained, and such personnel if known; (c) the
selection method of the institution or individuals conducting such Training; (d) the
institution conducting such Training if identified; (e) the purpose and justification
for such Training; (f) the location and duration of the proposed training; and
(g) the estimate of the cost of such Training.
4. 
Annual Work Plans and Budgets may be revised as needed during Project
implementation subject to the Bank's prior written approval.
F. 
Safeguards
1 .
The Borrower shall implement (and cause WUC to implement) the Project in
accordance with the Safeguards Action Plan (SAP) and the relevant Safeguards
Instruments, and shall, to that end, if any activity under the Project would require
the adoption of a Supplemental Safeguards Instrument:
(a) 
(i) prepare (or cause WUC to prepare) such Supplemental Safeguards
Instrument in accordance with the applicable Resettlement Policy
Framework (RPF), Vulnerable Communities Plan (VCP), and Dam Safety
Action Plan (DSAP); 
(ii) 
furnish such Supplemental 
Safeguards
Instrument 
to 
the 
Bank 
for 
review 
and 
approval; 
and
(iii) thereafter adopt such Supplemental Safeguards Instrument prior to
implementation of the activity; and
(b) 
thereafter take such measures as shall be necessary or appropriate to ensure
full compliance with the requirements of such Supplemental Safeguards
Instrument.
2. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph I above, the Borrower shall:
(a) 
no later than two (2) months after the Effective Date: (i) prepare in
accordance with terms of reference and process acceptable to the Bank,
the RPF in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) furnish said
RPF to the Bank for its review and approval; and (iii) adopt and disclose
the RPF in the Borrower's territory; and
-13-
(b) 
thereafter, implement (or cause WUC to implement) the Project in
accordance with the RPF.
3. 
The Borrower, prior to initiating the carrying out of any civil works for any
subproject, shall:
(a) 
(i) prepare (or cause WUC to prepare) in accordance with terms of
reference and process acceptable to the Bank, any Resettlement Action
Plan (RAP) required for such subproject under the RPF and furnish said
RAP to the Bank for its review and approval; and (ii) adopt and disclose
such RAP in the Borrower's territory;
(b) 
if any activity under the Project would involve Affected Persons, ensure
that: (i) no displacement (including restriction of access to legally
designated parks and protected areas) shall occur before resettlement
measures under the applicable RAP, including, in the case of
displacement, full payment to Affected Persons of compensation and of
other assistance required for relocation, have been taken; and (ii) provide
from its own resources, any financing required for any measures under
subparagraph (i) above including any costs associated with land
acquisition required for the Project; and
(c) 
thereafter implement (or cause WUC to implement) the Project in
accordance with such RAP.
4. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
prior to commencement of bidding for civil works for any subproject:
(i) prepare (or cause WUC to prepare) in accordance with terms of
reference and process acceptable to the Bank, the Environmental and
Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) required for the subproject under the
SAP in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) furnish said ESIA
to the Bank for its review and approval; and (iii) adopt and disclose the
ESIA in the Borrower's territory; and
(b) 
thereafter, implement (or cause WJC to implement) the Project in
accordance with such ESIA.
5. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
prior to commencement of bidding for civil works for any subproject:
(i) prepare (or cause WUC to prepare) in accordance with terms of
reference and process acceptable to the Bank, the Environmental and
Social Management Plan (ESMP) required for the subproject under an
-14-
ESIA, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) furnish said
ESMP to the Bank for its review and approval; (iii) adopt and disclose said
ESMP in the Borrower's territory; and (iv) incorporate said ESMP in the
bidding documents; and
(b) 
thereafter, implement (or cause WUC to implement) the Project in
accordance with such ESMP.
6. 
The Borrower shall, if a Vulnerable Communities Plan (VCP) shall be required for
any Project activity on the basis of the SAP: (i) prepare (or cause WUC to prepare)
said VCP in accordance with the requirements of the SAP with terms of reference
and process acceptable to the Bank and in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank; (ii) furnish said VCP to the Bank for its review and approval; (iii) adopt and
disclose the VCP in the Borrower's territory; and (iv) ensure that no works under
said activity shall commence until all measures required to be taken under such
VCP prior to the initiation of said works shall have been taken.
7. 
The Borrower shall no later than two (2) months after the Effective Date:
(a) 
(i) prepare (or cause WUC to prepare) in accordance with terms of
reference and process acceptable to the Bank, a Dam Safety Action Plan
(DSAP) for the Project, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank;
(ii) furnish said DSAP to the Bank for its review and approval; and
(iii) adopt and disclose said DSAP in the Borrower's territory; and
(b) 
thereafter, implement (or cause WUC to implement) the Project in
accordance with the DSAP.
8. 
Without limitation upon its other reporting obligations under this Agreement, the
Borrower shall, for each applicable Safeguards Instrument, regularly collect,
compile and furnish to the Bank reports in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank, on the status of compliance with each applicable Safeguards Instrument, as
part of the Project Reports, giving details of:
(a) 
measures taken in furtherance of such Safeguards Instrument;
(b) 
conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the smooth
implementation of such Safeguards Instrument; and
(c) 
remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such
conditions.
9. 
In the event that any provision of the Safeguards Instruments shall conflict with
any provision under this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
-15-
10. 
The Borrower shall ensure that:
(a) 
all studies and technical assistance to be carried out under the Project are
undertaken pursuant to terms of reference reviewed and found satisfactory
by the Bank, and that such terms of reference shall be designed to ensure
that said studies and technical assistance are consistent with the Bank's
environmental and social safeguard policies; and
(b) 
in any Project activity that may support the drafting of regulatory
instruments for the purpose of the Project, due attention will be given to
said policies.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall (and shall cause WUC to) monitor and evaluate the progress
of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to
the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of
the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1 .
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of
each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering
the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than six months after the end of such period.
-16-
Section III. 
Procurement
All goods, works, non-consulting services and consulting services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in the Procurement Regulations and the provisions
of the Procurement Plan.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects", dated May 2006, as revised
from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant
to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(exclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non- 
145,500,000 
100%
consulting services,
consulting services,
Training and Operating
Costs under the Project
TOTAL AMOUNT 
145,500,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
-17-
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the
Front-end Fee.
(b) 
For payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed two million USD
($2,000,000) may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or
after July 1, 2016, for Eligible Expenditures under Category (1).
2. 
The Closing Date is May 31, 2021.
-18-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary. to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each February 15 and August 15 
3.23%
Beginning August 15, 2021
through February 15, 2036
On August 15, 2036 
3.1%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
-19-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
-20-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Affected Person" means a person who as a result of: (i) the involuntary taking of
land under the Project is affected in any of the following ways: (A) relocation or
loss of shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources
or means of livelihood, whether or not the affected person must move to another
location; or (ii) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and
protected areas suffers adverse impacts on his or her livelihood; and "Affected
Person" means any of the Affected Persons.
2. 
"Annual Work Plan and Budget" means the annual work plan and budget as
prepared by the MLWS PMO and WUC PMO approved by the Bank in accordance
with the provisions of Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
3. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as
of July 1, 2016.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
5. 
"Dam Safety Action Plan" or "DSAP" means the plan to be prepared by the
Borrower in accordance with the SAP and Section I.F.7 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, setting forth remedial or safety-related measures to upgrade the
Ntimbale dam and/or the Letsibogo dam to an acceptable standard of safety, as the
same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank, and such
term includes any schedules or annexes to such Plan.
6. 
"Dikgatlhong" means the water supply dam in the Borrower's territory.
7. 
"DWA" means the Borrower's Department of Water Affairs or any successor
thereto.
8. 
"Environmental and Social Impact Assessment" or "ESIA" means an assessment
to be carried out by the Borrower for the Project in form and substance satisfactory
to the Bank, to evaluate the Project's potential environmental and social risks and
impacts in its area of influence, including impact on physical cultural resources;
examine alternatives and identify ways of mitigating and managing adverse
environmental and social impact throughout Project implementation, as the same
may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank and such term
includes any schedules or annexes to the assessment.
-21-
9. 
"Environmental and Social Management Plan" or "ESMP" means a plan to be
prepared by the Borrower for an activity under the Project proposing appropriate
mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures designed to mitigate potential
adverse environmental and social impacts, offset them, reduce them to acceptable
levels or enhance positive impacts, as the same may be amended from time to time
with the agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any schedules or annexes
to the plan.
10. 
"Francistown", "Lobatse", and "Letlhakane", each means respectively, a city, a
town, and a village in the Borrower's territory.
11. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans"', dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
12. 
"ICT" means information, communications, technology.
13. 
"Letsibogo dam" means the water supply dam in the Borrower's territory.
14. 
"Management Centers" or "MCs" means WUC regional offices charged with
responsibility of managing activities within their area.
15. 
"MLWS" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for land management, water
and sanitation services or any successor thereto.
16. 
"MLWS PMO" means the Programme Management Office to be maintained
within the MLWS in accordance with the provisions of Section I.A. 1 of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
17. 
"Ntimbale dam" means the water supply dam in the Borrower's territory.
18. 
"Operating Costs" means incremental recurrent expenditures incurred on account
of Project implementation, including: local contractual support staff salaries; travel
expenditures 
and other travel-related 
allowances; 
equipment rental and
maintenance; office rental and maintenance; materials and supplies; and utilities,
media information campaigns and communications' expenses, bank charges,
insurance, and vehicle operation and maintenance, and such other expenses as shall
be agreed with the Bank, but excluding the salaries of officials and public servants
of the Borrower's civil service and parastatals.
19. 
"PAD" means the Project Appraisal Document for the Project.
20. 
"PPP" means Public-Private Partnership.
-22-
21. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
October 6, 2016, and provided for under Section IV of the Procurement
Regulations, as the same may be updated from time to time in agreement with the
Bank.
22. 
"Procurement Regulations" means the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for
Borrowers under Investment Project Financing", dated July 1, 2016.
23. 
"Project Operations Manual" or "POM" means the manual for the Project, to be
adopted by the Borrower and WUC in accordance with the provisions of Section
I.D of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
24. 
"Public Finance Management Act" means the Public Finance Management Act
No. 17 of 2011 of the Borrower.
25. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" or "RAP" means a plan to be prepared by the Borrower
pursuant to the terms of the RPF in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank
outlining the mitigation measures for addressing any resettlement risks associated
with an activity under the Project, as the said document may be amended and/or
supplemented from time to time with the prior written concurrence of the Bank
and subject to the initial consultation and disclosure requirements carried out on
the RAP, and such term includes any schedules or annexes to the plan.
26. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the framework to be prepared
and adopted by the Borrower outlining the policies and procedures to be
implemented in the event that specific activities implemented under the Project
have potentially negative impacts on the livelihoods, assets and land of the affected
population, as the said framework may be amended and/or supplemented from
time to time with the prior written consent of the Bank, and such term includes any
schedules to such framework.
27. 
"Safeguards Action Plan" or "SAP" means the action plan set forth in the PAD
outlining environmental and social implementation procedures, mitigation
measures and monitoring procedures for the Project.
28. 
"Safeguards Instruments" means, collectively, the VCP, the RPF, the DSAP, and
any Supplemental Safeguards Instrument.
29. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make part of
the proceeds of the Loan available to WUC.
30. 
"Supplemental Safeguards Instrument" means collectively, any ESIA, ESMP,
RAP, or any other instrument required under the terms of the SAP, RPF, and
-23-
DSAP, to be prepared by the Borrower and approved by the Bank for the Project,
proposing appropriate mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures designed
to mitigate potential adverse environmental and social impacts, offset them, reduce
them to acceptable levels or enhance positive impacts, as the said instrument may
be amended and/or supplemented from time to time with the prior written
concurrence of the Bank.
31. 
"Vulnerable Communities Plan" or "VCP" means a social assessment and
vulnerable communities plan to be prepared in accordance with the SAP and
Section I.F.6 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement for any Project activity for which
vulnerable communities are present or have a collective attachment to the area of
the proposed activity.
32. 
"Training" means the training of persons under the Project, including through
seminars, workshops, knowledge sharing activities and study tours, and covers the
following costs associated with such activity: travel and subsistence costs for
training participants, costs associated with securing the services of trainers, rental
of training facilities, preparation and reproduction of training materials, and other
costs directly related to training preparation and implementation.
33. 
"Water Utilities Corporation" or "WUC" means the Borrower's water utilities
corporation established and operating pursuant to WUC's Legislation.
34. 
"WUC's Legislation" means the Water Utilities Corporation Act No. 24 of the
Borrower dated June 30, 1970, as amended.
35. 
"WUC PMO" means the Project Management Office to be maintained within the
WUC in accordance with the provisions of Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
-24-
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement
(the "Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective
dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan
Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-
annually in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
