OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8671-CN
Loan Agreement
(Yunnan Early Childhood Education Innovation Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF. CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
& 
' 
,2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8671-CN
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
f 
, 2017, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
OF CHINA ('Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank'). The-Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I- 
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terns used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty million dollars ($50,000,000),
as such amount may be. converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement
("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may. withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter
of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
-2-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount. of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the'Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rite to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
2.09 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure
Limit (as said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of.
this Section), the Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate
of one half of one percent (0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess
Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for
each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if any)
shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set
forth below:
-3-
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day
during which the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure
Limit, the product of: (A) the total amount of said excess; and
(B) the ratio of all (or, if the Bank so determines, a portion) of
the Loan to the aggregate amount of all (or the equivalent
portions) of the loans made by the Bank to the Borrower and to
other borrowers guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject
to an exposure surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably
determined from time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the
Bank's financial exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded,
would subject the Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as
determined from time to time by the Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total
financial exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by
the Bank.
ARTICLE III -PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the
Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions
and the Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
'Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
-4-
People's Republic of China
Facsimile:
(86-10) 6855-2077
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
ITBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) dr 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at Beijing, People's Republic of China, as of the day and year first above
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By 
___ 
___
Authorized Representative
Name:
Title:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
d
Title: 
D 
6
-6-
-SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve the access and quality of ECE
provision in the Project Counties in Yunnan Province.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: Increasing Access to ECE Programs
I. 
Constructing and equipping of model public kindergartens in selected areas in the
Project Counties.
2. 
Setting up university-affiliated research kindergartens to strengthen teacher
education programs and produce research on ECE.
3. 
Piloting of rural community ECE service and parenting education alternatives in
selected Project Counties, and carrying out of an impact evaluation on parenting
education.
4. 
Constructing and equipping an early childhood special education center in
Kunming University.
Part B: Improving ECE Quality
1. 
Development and delivery of a comprehensive in-service teacher, manager, and
staff training program on ECE.
2. 
Strengthening the capacity of teacher education, including pre-service, programs
in Participating Universities by, inter alia, revising program standards and
curriculum, and carrying out of training activities and learning exchanges.
3. 
Establishing ECE research and teacher training centers in Participating
Universities, including a premier research institute for ECE research and teaching
in Yunnan Normal University, a teacher training center focusing on ECE
research and rehabilitation services for children with disabilities in Kunming
University, and a teacher training center for ECE targeting rural teachers in
Zhaotong University.
4. 
Developing an online resource bank and platform for ECE teaching and learning
in Yunnan Normal University.
5. 
Providing teaching and learning materials to selected pre-primary classes in rural
areas.
-7-
Part C: Creating an ECE Enabling Environment
1. 
Assisting in the creation of an ECE enabling environment through, inter alia:
(a) developing and piloting ECE institutional quality standards; (b) carrying out
of information and advocacy campaigns for ECE and scientific child-rearing
practices; and (c) development of ECE-related pqlicies and sustainable financing
mechanisms.
PartD: Project Mana2ement, Monitoring and Evaluation
I. 
Facilitating Project management through, inter alia: (a) provision of specific
training to Project staff on subjects related to Project management, financial
management, procurement, safeguards, and monitoring and evaluation; and (b)
establishment and carrying out of a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation for
the Project.
* 
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section L 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Financing Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall make available to the Project Implementing Entity the
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the categories as set forth in
the table in Section IV of this Schedule under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank, including the following principal terms:
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars or any other
Currency as the Loan may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion (such principal amount determined on the date, or
respective dates, of withdrawil fromthe Loan Account) of the value of
the currency or currencies so withdrawn.
(b) 
The principal amount so made available (including an amount equal to
the fee paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement) shall be
recovered over a period of thirty-three (33) years, inclusive of a grace
period of five (5) years.
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of
Section 2.05 of this Agreement.
(d) 
A Commitment Charge shall be charged equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to: (a) manage,
operate, monitor, transfer and reconcile the proceeds of the Loan made available
to it pursuant to paragraph 1 above in accordance with arrangements and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank; . (b) take all required actions, including
provision of timely consents and approvals as may be necessary, to facilitate the
utilization of said Loan proceeds and the implementation of the Project, and to
comply with its undertakings under the Project Agreement; and (c) maintain all
relevant records and documents related to the Loan and the Project and provide
promptly such documents and records, including all other information, as may be
requested by the Borrower or the Bank from time to time.
-9-
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Safeguards
The Borrower shall take, and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to take,
all measures necessary to comply with, or all measures necessary to enable the
Project Implementing Entity to comply with, the provisions of Section LD of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
I. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to monitor and
evaluate the progress of the Project and.)ause the Project Implementing Entity to
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the
General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Project
Implementation Plan. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar
semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than sixty (60) days after
the end of the period covered by-such report.
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall
be furnished to the Bank not later than three (3) months after the Closing Date.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the Bank, as part
of the Project Report, not later than sixty (60) days after the end of each calendar
semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the
semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to have its Financial
Statements audited in. accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the
General Conditions. 
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the
period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for
each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after
- 10 -
the end of such period. 
The Borrower shall make, or cause the Project
Implementing Entity to make, the audited Financial Statements, publicly
available in a timely fashion and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-Consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods. of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1 .
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services.. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for.procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive
Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set forth in the box below; (b)
Shopping; and (c) Direct Contracting. 
.
The procedures applicable to the procurement of goods, works, and non-
consulting services under contracts awarded on the basis of National
Competitive Bidding ("NCB") shall be the open tendering procedures set forth
in the Borrower's Law on Tendering and Bidding promulgated by its Order No.
21 dated August 30, 1999; provided, however, that such procedures shall be
subject to the provisions of Section I, Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of Section M, and
-11 -
Appendix 1 of the Procurement Guidelines, and the additional provisions in the
following. In the event of a conflict between the Borrower's procedures and
these NCB Procedure Modifications, the latter shall govern.
(i) 
Eligibility to participate in a procurement process and to be awarded a
Bank-financed contract shall be as defined under Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines; accordingly, no.bidder or potential bidder shall
be declared ineligible for such contract for reasons other than those
provided in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines. No restriction
based on nationality of bidders and/or origin. of goods shall apply, and
foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate in NCB without
application of restrictive conditions.
(ii) 
All invitations to prequalify or bid shall be advertised in a national
newspaper of wide circulation in the Borrower's country, or on a widely
used website / electronic portal with free national and international
access acceptable to the Bank* except for goods or non-consulting
services contracts that are estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent
each, or works contracts that are estimated to cost less than $2,000,000
each, which may be advertised in a provincial daily newspaper. Such
advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for prospective bidders to
obtain prequalification or bidding documents and prepare and submit
their responses. In any event, a minimum of thirty (30) days shall be
given to bidders between the date of such advertisement (or the date of
availability of bidding documents, whichever is later) and the deadline
for the submission of bids, and the advertisement and bidding documents
shall specify the deadline for the submission of bids. In the case of such
advertisement on -a website / electronic portal, the notice shall remain
readily accessible nationally and internationally until at least the deadline
for the submission of bids: Potential bidders shall be allowed to inspect
and purchase bidding documents at any time prior to the deadline for the
submission of bids.
(iii) 
Standard Bidding Documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
(iv) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of evaluating the
qualification of each bidder shall be specified in detail in the bidding
documents.
(v) 
Prequalification procedures and documents acceptable to the Bank shall
be used for large, complex and/or specialized works. Verification of the
information upon which a bidder was prequalified, including current
commitments, shall be carried out at the time of contract award, along
with the bidder's capability with respect to personnel and equipment. All
bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-qualification
-12-
documents shall be allowed to bid, and there shall be no limit on the
number of pre-qualified bidders. Where pre-qualification is not used, the
qualification of the bidder who is recommended for award of contract
shall be assessed by post-qualification, applying the qualification criteria
stated in the bidding documents.
(vi) 
Registration shall not be used to assess bidders' qualifications. A bidder
shall not be required to register as a condition for inspecting or
purchasing bidding documents, submitting its bid or receiving contract
award. A bidder determined to be the lowest evaluated responsive bidder,
shall be given reasonable opportunity of registering (if required) before
contract signing without any let or hindrance. Bidding shall not be
restricted to any particular class of contractors, and non-classified
contractors shall also be eligible to bid.
(vii) 
No margins of preference of pay sort shall be given to bidders, such as
on the basis of their location, place of incorporation, or affinity with the
geographical area in which the Project activities will take place.
(viii) All bidders who are awarded contracts for works and single-
responsibility contracts shall be required to provide performance security
in an amount sufficient to protect the Borrower or the Project
Implementing Entity / Entities, as the case may be, in case of breach of
contract by the contractor, and the bidding documents shall specify the
required form and amount of such security and any other potential
damages for such breach.
(ix) 
Bidders shall be allowed to submit bids by mail or in person.
(x) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an
opportunity to be present (either in person or through their
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not be
required to be present at the bid opening.
(xi) 
All bid. evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding documents
and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the form of pass/fail
requirements.
(xii) No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price exceeds any
cost estimate or falls outside any margin or bracket of prices or average
bids established by the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity /
Entities, as the case may be. Rejection of all bids or re-bidding shall not
be allowed solely because the number of bids is less than three (3), and
rejection of all bids or rebidding shall not take place without the Bank's
prior written agreement.
-13-
(xiii) Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive
bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of
capability and resources and whose bid has been determined: (A) to be
substantially responsive to the bidding documents; and (B) to offer the
lowest evaluated cost. The winning bidder'shall not be required, as a
condition of award, to undertake responsibilities for work or to assume
other obligations not stipulated in the bidding documents or otherwise to
modify the bid as originally submitted. No negotiations shall be
permitted except with the Bank's no-objection.
(xiv) In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding document.
and contract shall include provisions stating the Bank's policy to
sanction firms or individuals found to have engaged in fraud and
corruption as set forth in the Procurement Guidelines.
(xv) 
In accordance with the Procurenient Guidelines, each bidding document
and contract shall include provisions stating the Bank's policy with
respect to inspection and audit of accounts, records and other documents
relating to the submission of bids and contract performance.
(xvi) Government-owned enterprises in the Borrower's country may be
permitted to bid or submit- a proposal of goods, works, or non-consulting
services if they can establish that they: (A) are legally and financially
autonomous; (B) operate under commercial law; and (C) are not a
dependent agency of the agency conducting the procurement.
(xvii) Matters such as subcontracting, joint venture relationships and
assignment of contract shall be handled in accordance with the bidding
documents.
(xviii) The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be published in the
national or provincial press (as provided under paragraph (ii) above) or
official gazette or a free and open-access website and shall. identify: (A)
the name of each bidder who submitted a bid, (B) bid prices as read out
at bid opening; (C) the name of the bidder, and the evaluated price, of
each bid that was evaluated; (D) the names of bidders whose bids were
either rejected as non-responsive or not meeting qualification criteria, or
not evaluated, with the reasons therefor; and (E) the name of the winning
bidder and the final total contract price, as well as the duration and
summary scope of the contract. Such publication shall be within two (2)
weeks 
of receiving 
the Bank's 
no-objection 
to 
the 
award
recommendation for contracts subject to the Bank's prior review, and
within two (2) weeks of .the Borrower or the Project Implementing
Entity's award decision for contracts subject to the Bank's post review.
-14-
The bidding documents shall disclose the newspaper in which and / or
the electronic means by which the information on contract award will be
published.
(xix) The Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity / Entities, as the case
may be, shall have in place an effective and independent protest
mechanism for bidders to protest. The bidding documents shall provide
the. professional title and address of te official to whom such protests
should be sent.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services-'
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based
Selection, which may. be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used:
Procurement Methods
(a) 
Quality-Based Selection
(b) 
Selection Based on the Consultants' Qualifications
(c) 
Least-Cost Selection
(d) 
Fixed Budget Selection
(e) 
Selection of Individual Consultants
(f) 
Single Source Selection (Firm and Individual)
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
- 15 -
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1I 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the. Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, -and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
Financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Works, goods and non-
consulting services 
40,648,000 
100%
(2) Consultants' services,
Training, and Incremental 
9,227,000 
100%
Operating Costs 
-
Amount payable pursuant
(3) Front-end Fee 
125,000 
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07(b) of the
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
50,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000 equivalent
may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after March 4, 2016,
for Eligible Expenditures.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2021.
-16-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Paymefit Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
-Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each April 15 and October 15
* Beginning April 15, 2022 
1.79%
through.April 15, 2049
On October 15, 2049 
.
1.55%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
.
-17-
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior .to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of p-incipal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan
Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount
denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization
schedule for each such amnount.
-18-
APPENDIX
Section L 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
3. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
4. 
"Displaced Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of the
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social
impacts caused by- (a) the invontary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation
or loss of shelter, (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income
sources or means of livelihood, whether or not -such persons must move to
another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated
parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such
persons; and a "Displaced Person" means any of such Displaced Persons.
5. 
"ECE" means early childhood education.
6. 
"Environmental Management Plan" or the acronym "EMP" means the
Borrower's environmental management plan dated November 2015, which sets
out, with respect to the Project, the measures for the protection of the
environment, as well as administrative and. monitoring arrangements to ensure
the implementation of said plan, as such plan may be revised from time to time
with the agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any annexes, appendices,
or schedules to such plan.
7. 
"Ethnic Minorities Development Plan" or the acronym "EMDP" means the
Project Implementing Entity's plan for the Project dated February 2016, with the
objective of avoiding cultural, social and economic adverse effects on ethnic
minorities caused or likely to be caused by the Project, and through a process of
informed consultation and participation, to involve concerned ethnic minorities in
the design and implementation of relevant Project activities so as to ensure that
the benefits received by the ethnic minorities under the Project are in harmony
with their economic, social and cultural preferences and protect their customary
user rights, as said plan or plans may be revised from time to time with the prior
written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental thereto.
-19-
8. 
"Fisdal Year" means the fiscal year of the Project Implementing Entity, covering
the period January 1 through December 31.
9. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
10. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means Project-related incremental operating costs
incurred on account of implementation, 
management 
and monitoring,
dissemination of Project-related information, office rental and office equipment
purchase or leasing, - maintenance and repair, vehicle leasing, equipment
maintenance and repair, travel, including travel to Project sites, security,
communication, bank charges, advertising, and other costs directly associated
with the Project, but otherwise excluding the salaries of the Borrower's and the
Project Implementing Entity's civil servants.
11. 
"Kunming University" means the public university of such name established in
May 2004 under the Yunnan Department of Education, providing comprehensive
full-time diploma and bachelor teacher training programs, or any successor
thereto acceptable to the Bank.
12. 
"Participating Universities" means, collectively, the following public universities
in Yunnan: Kunming University, Yunnan Normal University and Zhaotong
University.
13. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
14. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project,
dated April 11, 2016 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.'
15. 
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and the Project
Implementing Entity of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental
to the Project Agreement.
16. 
"Project Counties" means, collectively, the following counties located in Yunnan
Province: (i) Eryuan County, (ii) Jianshui County; (iii) Qiaojia County; (iv)
Weishan County (in Dali Prefecture); (v) Xichou County; (vi) Yangbi County
and (vii) Zhanyi County, and "Project County" means, individually, any of such
respective Project Counties, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
-20 -
17. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means the Borrower's Province of Yunnan, or any
successor thereto.
18. 
"Project Implementation Unit" or the acronym "PIU" means any of the Project
Implementation Units to be maintained by each of the Project Counties or
Participating Universities pursuant to the provisions of Section I.B.2(d) of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.
19. 
"Project. Implementation Plan" or the acronym "PIP" means the Project
Implementation Plan for the Project, dated November 3, 2016, which sets out
procedures and details regarding the implementation .of the Project, its
monitoring and supervision, performance 
indicators, including financial
management and procurement aspects, as the same may be updated from time to
time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
20. 
"Project Steering Committee" means the committee established by the Project
Implementing Entity on February,15, 2015, to provide overall leadership, policy
guidance 
and 
institutional 
coordination 
in 
Project 
preparation 
and
implementation, and referred to in Section LB.2(a) of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement, and any successor thereto. .
21. 
"Provincial Expert Team" means the team of experts established by the Project
Implementing Entity on April 28, 2016, to provide technical support and
guidance during Project implementation, and referred to in Section I.B.2(c) of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement, and any successor thereto.
22. 
"Provincial Project Management Office" and the acronym "PPMO" mean the
Project management office established on October 2014 in the Project
Implementing Entity's Department of Education, and to be maintained pursuant
to the provisions of Section I.B.2(b) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
23. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" and the acronym "RPF" mean the resettlement
policy framework for the Project, prepared by the Project Implementing Entity,
acceptable to the Bank, dated February 2016, which sets out the policies. and
procedures for the acquisition of land and other assets, compensation,
resettlement and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons, and for the preparation of
resettlement action plans as may be required for Project activities, as said
framework may be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of
the Bank, and such term includes all schedules and annexes supplemental to said
framework.
24. 
"Safeguards Instruments" means, collectively, thq EMP, the RPF (and any
resettlement action plans that may be developed thereunder) and the EMDP, and
such term includes any annexes or schedules to such instruments.
-21-
25. 
"Subsidiary Agreements" means, collectively, the agreements referred to in
Section L.A of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental 
to said agreements; 
and "Subsidiary 
Agreement" means,
individually, any of said Subsidiary Agreements.
26. 
"Training" means the costs of training activities under the Project, based on
annual work plans and budgets approved by the Bank, and attributable to
seminars, workshops, and domestic and overseas study trips, along with travel
and subsistence allowances for training participants, services of trainers, rental of
training facilities, preparation and reproduction of training materials, and other
activities directly related to course preparation and implementation.
27. 
"Yunnan" means the Borrower's Province of Yunnan, or any successor thereto.
28. 
"Yunnan Normal University" means the comprehensive teacher training public
university of such name founded in 1938 and renamed in 1984 as Yunnan
Normal University, organized under the Yunnan Department of Education, or
any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
29. 
"Zhaotong University" means the teacher training public higher institution of.
such name founded originally in 1978 and later upgraded to become Zhaotong
University in 2012, under the Yunnan Department of Education, or any successor
thereto acceptable to the Bank.
Section H1. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs
below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitinent charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which
-22-
amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled.
The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each
Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the
Front-end Fee, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), the Commitment
Charge, any surcharge, any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a
Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing
Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of an Interest Rate
Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower.
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
