OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8710-AR
Loan Agreement
(Modernization and Innovation for Better Public Services in Argentina Project)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated as of the Signature Date (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement),
between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby
agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II- LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of eighty million Dollars, (80,000,000), as such amount
may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with
the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project
described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower's Representative for purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is its Minister of MoF or
MoF's Undersecretary of International Financial Relations.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, however, that
the interest payable shall in no event be less than zero percent (0%) per annum; and
provided furthermore that, upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount
of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such
amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the
General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan
Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty
days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in
Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
-2-
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; and (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice
versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the
Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower, through MM, shall carry out the Project with the assistance of the Participating
Entities in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project
is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty (180) days after the
Signature Date.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower's Representative is
its Minister of MoF.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Hip6lito Yrigoyen 250
C 1086 AAB, Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
MINISTERIO
DE FINANZAS 
121942-AR 
(5411) 4349-8815
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at &a( cS Af ky 
)v 
,j, on behalf of the Bank on
4tsfV. 
T 14i j1+and on belhalf otthe Borrower on A 
4±, L0{+.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By
Authorized Representative
Name: Luis Andres Caputo
Title: Minister of Finance
INTERNATIO 
L BAN 
OR
RECONSTRUC 
ON 
VELOPMENT
By
A 
zed 
r entative
Name: Jorge Familiar
Title: 
Vice President - Latin America and
the Caribbean Region
-5-.
SCHEDULE1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve the quality and accessibility of selected
government administrative services and enhance transparency in the public administration.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. Improvements in Service Delivery to Citizens, Businesses and Government
1.1 
Provision of support to improve the quality, accessibility and transparency of selected
citizen and business services, at national and subnational levels, including:
(a) 
the provision of support for the implementation of a digital government strategy,
including: (i) the development of a new architecture for the provision of citizen
services, including the relaunching of the argentina.gob.ar portal as a single entry
point for citizen interaction with the Borrower's relevant national authorities; (ii)
the redesigning of digital interfaces and improved user-experience tools of up to
29 key selected processes; (iii) the adoption of a digital citizen profile service; and
(iv) the establishment of a digital assistance program to assist citizens in accessing
digital services;
(b) 
the provision of support to the MP for the modernization of SMEs services
provision processes through: (i) the reengineering and streamlining of internal
administrative processes; (ii) the development of online transactions through the
adoption and configuration of a virtual services module (Trdmites a Distancia);
(iii) the provision of training to personnel for the operation of redesigned
processes; and (iv) the acquisition of equipment and supplies for post offices to
operate a new electronic system;
(c) 
the provision of support for the modernization of a set of key civil registry services
in the Province of Buenos Aires, including, inter alia: (i) the analysis,
standardization, and reengineering of civil registry administrative processes; (ii)
the implementation of automated civil registry processes across selected main civil
registry offices (cabeceras); (iii) the installation of specific remote electronic
services for citizens; and (iv) the provision of training to selected main civil
registry offices' personnel for the operation of the processes referred to in (ii)
herein; and
(d) 
the provision of support for the carrying out of selected pilot interventions in
government administrative services to citizens, including, inter alia, the updating,
modernization and automation of processes for the online provision of government
administrative services through the use of an online platform on a remote basis,
automated management of selected social benefit programs' transfers, automated
-6-
processing of non-tax revenue management, and other remote citizen/business
services.
1.2 
Provision of support for improving the efficiency and transparency of selected internal
government administrative services, including:
(a) 
the provision of support for enhancing transparency, competition and savings in
public procurement, through: (i) the carrying out of an analysis of the procurement
needs of the Borrower's relevant national authorities and the identification of
opportunities for the use of procurement framework agreements; (ii) the carrying
out of supply and demand studies and the preparation of procurement framework
agreements; and (iii) the implementation of procurement framework agreements
for selected goods and services through the use of the e-procurement system
referred to under Part 2.2 of the Project.
(b) 
the provision of support to OAC for updating and strengthening the management
of the asset declaration system, including, inter alia: (i) the implementation of an
electronic document management and automated workflows application; (ii) the
adoption of business intelligence tools, including the creation of interfaces with
other relevant government databases, and the enhancement of reporting and
analytical capabilities of the OAC; and (iii) the provision of training to OAC's
personnel on data analysis and risk assessment techniques; and
(c) 
the provision of support for the carrying out of selected pilot interventions in
government to government administrative services, including, inter alia: (i) the
adoption and implementation of public-management toolkits in Participating
Provinces covering the following cross cutting management systems: electronic
procurement, electronic document management and human resources; and (ii) the
adoption 
and 
implementation 
of modernized 
toolkits 
in 
Participating
Municipalities aimed at improving the quality of, and access to, municipal services
for citizens.
Part 2. Strengthening of Cross-Cutting Public Sector Management Systems and Platforms
2. 1 
Provision of support to the Borrower's Chief of Cabinet Office (supported by the MoF and
MM) and to other national line ministries, as applicable, for the development of a
performance management system through: (a) the development of a two-level strategic
planning methodology to provide parameters and guidance for: (i) strategic planning and
monitoring; and (ii) monitoring methodologies and problem-solving protocols; (b) the
design and development of a software application to support the operation of: (i)
customized dashboard applications to support strategic planning and monitoring of
progress and results; and (ii) an aggregated dashboard to monitor and inform interventions
in selected priority areas; and (c) the deployment of the methodology and dashboards
referred to in (a) and (b) herein through a participatory and gradual implementation
process, including installation of the software application referred to in (b) herein and the
provision of training to users.
2. 2 
Provision of support for: (a) the upgrading and adaptation of an e-procurement system for
the national public administration, including the development of an interface with the
national integrated budget and accounting information system (e-SIDIF); (b) the
installation and roll out of the updated e-procurement system across purchasing units of
the national public administration; (c) the provision of training to personnel responsible for
public procurement and the creation of a help-desk; and (d) the elaboration of a national
procurement strategy covering market analysis, opportunities for innovation, and policy
options to further improve practices in public procurement and contract management for
goods, services and public works.
2. 3 
Provision of support for the implementation of modem human resource (HR) management
practices and systems through: (a) the implementation of a HR management system based
on electronic document management, automated workflows and business intelligence
systems; (b) the harmonization of payroll systems across national line ministries and
selected decentralized entities; (c) the carrying out of a workforce planning exercise to
analyze each line ministry's stock of human capital, establish its business needs and design
action plans to reach optimum levels; and (d) the development of management and
technical competencies of government officials at the national and subnational levels and
the promotion of a shared vision of the Borrower's strategic goals and shared set of values,
including service excellence, ethics, transparency and integrity.
2. 4 
Provision of support for the promotion of open government, open data and open innovation
principles, through, inter alia: (a) the strengthening of the National Open Data Initiative,
and the promotion of access, use and re-use of public data by broader audiences; (b) the
carrying out of activities related with the Argentina's Open Government Strategy; (c) the
development of Gob Lab, a platform to seek innovative solutions to specific public
management and service delivery challenges; 
(d) the generation, 
testing, and
implementation of innovation processes to identify and propose solutions to public sector
challenges; and (e) the carrying out of pilot for public innovation activities at the
Autonomous City of Buenos Aires.
Part 3. Enabling Technology and Reform Management
3. 1 
Provision of support for the development and implementation of a comprehensive and
centrally managed change management and communication strategy, including: (a) the
preparation of a high level risk assessment to prioritize interventions and develop a well-
targeted change management plan; (b) the execution of specific stakeholder analyses; (c)
the preparation of change management plans; (d) the development and implementation of
a comprehensive communication strategy; (e) the development and implementation of
targeted training programs for stakeholders; and (f) the provision of support for overall
Project coordination and management; including the support for the carrying out of Project
audits.
3.2 
Provision of support for: (a) the adoption and implementation of an electronic workflow
management platform for documents; (b) the implementation of electronic identification
document authentication mechanisms and expansion of the use of the digital signature; and
(c) the installation of data warehouse and business intelligence tools aimed at enabling the
Borrower's relevant national authorities to store and exploit the data generated through
digital services.
3.3 
Provision of support for the expansion of ARSAT's datacenter's capacity to respond to
increased data processing and storage demands, including: (a) the enhancements of
ARSAT's datacenter's capacity to host information and communication services for the
Borrower's relevant agencies; (b) the expansion of ARSAT's datacenter's information
technology capacity at its secondary center to strengthen business continuity services; (c)
the establishment of an emergency response center team to provide cyber-security services;
and (d) the provision of technical assistance to the Borrower's relevant public institutions
to: (i) support the effective provision of ARSAT's datacenter's services; and (ii) develop
and implement environmentally friendly information and communication management
protocols, including the design of protocols for the disposal of outdated equipment and
hardware.
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower, through MM, shall operate and maintain, at all times during Project
implementation, the Project implementation unit ("PIU"), with structure, functions and
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, as set forth in the Operational Manual, including,
inter alia, the responsibility of the PIU to implement, monitor and supervise the carrying
out of the Project (including its financial, procurement and safeguards aspects).
2. 
The Borrower, through MM, shall ensure that the PIU is, at all times during Project
implementation, assisted by professional staff (including, inter alia, a Project coordinator,
a financial management specialist and procurement specialist) and administrative staff, all
in numbers and with terms of reference, and qualifications and experience, acceptable to
the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through the PIU, shall hire a firm with experience and qualifications
acceptable to the Bank (the "Change Management Firm") in accordance with Section III
of this Schedule, for purposes of assisting the PIU in the development and implementation
of the strategy referred to under Part 3.1 of the Project.
4. 
Prior to the carrying out of any activity under the Project in which an implementation team
is required, as determined by MM, the Borrower, through the MM, shall establish and
maintain, throughout Project 
implementation, 
an implementation 
team for the
corresponding activity, chaired by MM and comprised, if applicable, of representatives of
the pertinent Participating Entity (as the case may be), all with functions and
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank and in accordance with the terms defined in the
Operational Manual, including the responsibility to provide technical support for the
implementation of the corresponding Project activity.
5. 
Not later than three (3) months after the Effective Date, the Borrower, through the PIU,
shall hire a consultant with experience, qualifications and terms of reference acceptable to
the Bank in accordance with Section III of this Schedule, for purposes of assisting the PIU
in the verification of compliance of selected DLIs.
6. 
(a) For purposes of carrying out Parts 1.1.(b), 1.1(c), 1.2(b), 1.2 (c), 2.4(e) and 3.3 of the
Project, and prior to the carrying out of any activity under said Parts of the Project which
falls under the administrative jurisdiction of a Participating Entity, the Borrower, through
MM, shall enter into an agreement with the pertinent Participating Entity (as the case may
be) (the Inter-institutional Agreement), all under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank, which shall include, inter alia, the obligation of the Participating Entity to: (i) assist
the Borrower, through MM, in the carrying out of the corresponding Part of the Project;
-10-
and (ii) if applicable, appoint a representative to the implementation team referred to in
Section I.A.4 of this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower, through MM, shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under
each Inter-institutional Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interest of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower, through MM, shall not assign, amend, terminate, abrogate,
waive or fail to enforce any Interinstitutional Agreement or any provision thereof.
7. 
(a) In case any post office to be benefitted under Part 1.1 (b) (iv) of the Project is vested
with legal personality, or owned/managed by a legal entity, the Borrower, through MM,
shall, prior to the carrying out of said activity for the benefit of pertinent post office, enter
into a separate agreement (the Post Office Agreement) with each said post office or legal
entity (as the case may be), on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, which shall
include, inter alia, the obligation of said post office or legal entity to undertake all
necessary actions to enable the Borrower, through MM, to comply with the pertinent
obligations under this Agreement as applicable to Part 1.1 (b) (iv) of the Project.
(b) (i) The Borrower, through MM, shall exercise its rights under each Post Office
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and (ii) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower, through MM, shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to
enforce any Post Office Agreement, or any provision thereof.
B. 
Operational Manual
1 .
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower,
through MM, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of a manual (the
Operational Manual), acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia: (a) the
procedures for the carrying out, monitoring and evaluation of the Project, including
verification protocols to confirm DLR achievement; (b) the organizational structure of the
Project, including the functions and responsibilities of the PIU; (c) the Project procurement
and financial management requirements and procedures; (d) the Project's chart of accounts
and internal controls; (e) the indicators to be used for Project monitoring and evaluation;
and (f) the Indigenous Peoples Plan (IPP).
2. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through MM, shall not amend,
terminate or waive the Operational Manual or any of its provisions. In case of any conflict
among the terms of the Operational Manual and those of this Agreement, the terms of this
Agreement shall prevail.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
-11-
D. 
Safeguards
I. 
The Borrower, through the PIU, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the National
Indigenous Peoples Plan (IPP).
2. 
The Borrower, through the PIU, shall ensure that the terms of reference for any
consultancies related to the technical assistance provided under Parts 2.2 (d) and 3.3(d) (ii)
of the Project, shall be acceptable to the Bank following its review thereof and, to that end,
such terms of reference shall duly incorporate the requirement of the Bank's Safeguard
Policies then in force, as applied to the advice conveyed through such technical assistance.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and
on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the Operational Manual.
Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished
to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such
report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower, through the PIU, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower, through the
PIU, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end
of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, though the PIU, shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance
with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six
months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
All goods, works, non-consulting services and consulting services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in the Procurement Regulations and the provisions
of the Procurement Plan.
-12-
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank Disbursement
Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as
made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures
in each Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Underlying Expenditures 
20,000,000 
100%
under Parts 1.1(a), 1.1(c), 2.2
and 3.2 (a) of the Project
(2) Goods, works, non- 
59,800,000 
100%
consulting services,
consulting services, Training
and Workshops, and
Operating Costs under Parts
1.1(b), 1.1(d), 1.2, 2.1, 2.3,
2.4, 3.1, 3.2(b), 3.2(c), and
3.3 of the Project.
(3) Front-end Fee 
200,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(4) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar premium 
Section 2.08(c) of this
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
80,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed USD 16,000,000 may be made for payments made
-13-
prior to the Signature Date but on or after August 1, 2016 (but in no case more than
one year prior to the Signature Date), for Eligible Expenditures, provided that the
pertinent obligations/conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Additional
Instructions, as applicable to each Eligible Expenditure have been complied with
in a manner acceptable to the Bank; and
(b) 
under Category (1), unless the Borrower has furnished to the Bank in respect of
any DLR, supporting documentation acceptable to the Bank confirming the
achievement of the respective DLR or DLRs in form and in substance, as further
elaborated in the Additional Instructions.
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1(b) of this Section, if the Bank is not satisfied
that any DLR under Category (1) has been achieved, the Bank may at any time, and by
notice to the Borrower, decide, in its sole discretion to:
(a) 
withhold the unwithdrawn proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said DLR until
the Bank is satisfied that said DLR has been fully achieved; or
(b) 
(i) reallocate all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said DLR
to any other DLR; and/or (ii) cancel all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan
then allocated to said DLR.
3. 
If, at any time, the Bank determines that any portion of the amounts withdrawn by the
Borrower under Category (1) was made: (i) for ineligible expenditures; or (ii) not in
compliance with the provisions of paragraph 1(b) of this Section, the Borrower shall
promptly refund any such amount to the Bank as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. The Bank may thereafter cancel such refunded amount.
4. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2021.
-14-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: 
(a)
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment
Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary,
to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each March 15 and September 15
Beginning March 15, 2024
through September 15, 2048 
1.96%
On March 15, 2049 
2.00%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as
of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding
on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall
-15-
be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating
to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-16-
SCHEDULE 4
Amount of the
Parts of the 
Loan
Project 
DLIs 
Disbursement Linked Result 
Allocated
(expressed in
USD)
Part 1. 
DLI#1. 
DLR# 1.1: Website available with an updated 
1,000,000
Improvements 
Implementation of 
catalog of citizen services
in Service 
cumulative number 
DLR# 1.2: At least 3 redesigned citizen 
750,000
Delivery to 
of key citizen 
services available online
Citizens, 
centric processes 
DLR# 1.3: At least 8 redesigned citizen 
750,000
Businesses and 
redesigned with 
services available online
Government 
support from the 
DLR# 1.4: At least 11 redesigned citizen 
750,000
MM and available 
services available online
online in the 
DLR# 1.5: At least 14 redesigned citizen 
750,000
argenting.gob.ar 
services available online
portal (from a 
DLR# 1.6: At least 18 redesigned citizen 
500,000
baseline of 0) 
services available online
DLR# 1.7: At least 22 redesigned citizen 
500,000
services available online
DLI#2. Cumulative 
DLR# 2.1: Inter-institutional Agreement 
500,000
number of main 
signed between the Borrower, through, MM
civil registry 
and the Province of Buenos Aires for the
offices (cabeceras) implementation Part 1.1(c) of the Project
within the Province 
DLR# 2.2: 10 main regional offices with an 
300,000
of Buenos Aires 
operating electronic civil registry
with an operating 
DLR# 2.3: 30 main regional offices with an 
700,000
electronic civil 
operating electronic civil registry
registry (from a 
DLR# 2.4: 50 main regional offices with an 
400,000
baseline of 0) 
operating electronic civil registry
DLR# 2.5: 80 main regional offices with an 
600,000
operating electronic civil registry
DLR# 2.6: 100 main regional offices with an 
200,000
operating electronic civil registry
DLR# 2.7: 137 main regional offices with an 
300,000
operating electronic civil registry
Part 2. 
DLI#3. Percentage 
DLR# 3.1: 11% of purchasing units 
500,000
Strengthening 
of purchasing units 
DLR# 3.2: 25% of purchasing units 
200,000
of Cross- 
(out of a total of 98 
DLR# 3.3:50% of purchasing units 
300,000
Cutting Public 
purchasing units) 
DLR# 3.4: 60% of purchasing units 
500,000
Sector 
within the national 
DLR# 3.5: 75% of purchasing units 
500,000
Management 
public 
DLR# 3.6:85% of purchasing units 
400,000
-17-
Amount of the
Loan
Parts of the
DLIs 
Disbursement Linked Result 
Allocated
Project.
(expressed in
USD)
Systems and 
administration 
Target 3.7: 95% of purchasing units 
600,000
Platforms 
operating with the
new procurement
system
Part 3. 
DLI#4. Cumulative 
DLR# 4.1: 30 government internal 
1,000,000
Enabling 
number of 
administrative processes mapped and
Technology 
government 
modelled with eDMS
and Reform 
internal 
DLR# 4.2: 80 government internal 
1,200,000
Management 
administrative 
administrative processes mapped and
processes mapped 
modelled with eDMS
and modelled with 
DLR# 4.3: 130 government internal 
1,800,000
eDMS across 
administrative processes mapped and
national line 
modelled with eDMS
ministries and other 
DLR# 4.4: 200 government internal 
1,000,000
entities of the 
administrative processes mapped and
national public 
modelled with eDMS
administration 
DLR# 4.5: 280 government internal 
1,500,000
(from a baseline of 
administrative processes mapped and
0) 
modelled with eDMS
DLR# 4.6: 350 government internal 
1,100,000
administrative processes mapped and
modelled with eDMS
DLR# 4.7: 460 government internal 
1,400,000
administrative processes mapped and
modelled with eDMS
TOTAL 
20,000,000
-18-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Additional Instructions" means the instructions referred to in Section [V.A. 1 of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated
October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
3. 
"Bank Safeguard Policies" means the Bank's operational policies and procedures set forth
in the Bank's Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04, 4.07, 4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12,
4.36 and 4.37, as said manual is published under www.WorldBank.org/opmanual.
4. 
"ARSAT" means Empresa Argentina de Soluciones Satelitales S.A., a telecommunications
company wholly owned by the Borrower.
5. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section [V of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
6. 
"Disbursement-Linked Indicator" or "DLI" means any given indicator set forth in the
second column of the table set forth in Schedule 4 of this Agreement.
7. 
"Disbursement Linked Result" or "DLR" means any given result set forth in the third
column of the table in Schedule 4 to this Agreement on the basis of the achievement of
which, the amount of the Loan under Category (1) allocated to said result as set forth in the
fourth column of the table in said Schedule 4 may be withdrawn in accordance with the
provisions of Section IV.B.1(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
8. 
"eDMS" means electronic document management system (sistema de gestidn electrdnica
de documentos - GDOS).
9. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
10. 
"Inter-institutional Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in Section I.A.6
(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
11. 
"Indigenous Peoples Plan" or "IPP" means the plan prepared by the Borrower and
approved by the Bank, dated January, 2017, published in the Borrower's territory on
January 13, 2017 and in the Bank's external website on January 13, 2017, describing the
specific measures and implementation arrangements to be undertaken to guide the
interventions and consultations with indigenous peoples under the Project.
-19-
12. 
"National Open Data Initiative" means the Borrower's initiative aimed at publicly
disclosing data in a proactive, complete and timely manner, through channels, means,
formats and licenses that best facilitate their local accessibility, processing, use, reuse and
redistribution, in accordance with Borrower's Decree No. 117, dated January 12, 2016, as
published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on January 13, 2016.
13. 
"MoF" means Ministerio de Finanzas, the Borrower's Ministry of Finance, or any
successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
14. 
"MM" means Ministerio de Modernizacion, the Borrower's Ministry of Modernization, or
any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
15. 
"MP" means Ministerio de Producci6n, the Borrower's Ministry of Production, or any
succesor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
16. 
"OAC" means Oficina Anticorrupci6n, the Borrower's Anti-Corruption Office established
within the Borrower's Ministry of Justice and Human Rights.
17. 
"Operating Costs" means reasonable recurrent expenditures (other than consulting
services), based on annual budget previously approved by the Bank, that would not have
been incurred by the Borrower, through MM, absent the Project, for transportation andper-
diem costs of the Borrower's staff, Project administration costs (including office rent,
operation and maintenance of equipment and non-durable goods).
18. 
"Open Government Strategy" means the Borrower's strategy aimed at promoting
transparency, citizen participation and collaboration for innovative public management.
19. 
"Operational Manual" means the Borrower's manual, acceptable to the Bank, set forth in
Section I.B.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, dated January 2017, as the same may be
amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
20. 
"Participating Entity" means any Participating Province, any Participating Municipality,
OAC, MP and/or ARSAT.
21. 
"Participating Municipality" means the Borrower's Autonomous City of Buenos Aires or
any political subdivision of any Participating Province, which meets the eligibility criteria
set forth in the Operational Manual to participate in the Project.
22. 
"Participating Province" means any of the Borrower's political subdivisions, as per title
Two of the Borrower's 1994 Constitution (excluding the Borrower's Autonomous City of
Buenos Aires which, for purposes of the Project, has been defined as a Participating
Municipality), which meet the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual to
Participate in the Project.
23. 
"PIU" means the unit referred to in Section I.A. I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, or any
successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
-20-
24. 
"Post Office Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in Section I.A.7 (a) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
25. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated January
16, 2017 and provided for under Section IV of the Procurement Regulations, as the same
may be updated from time to time in agreement with the Bank.
26. 
"Procurement Regulations" means the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for
Borrowers under Investment Project Financing", dated July 1, 2016.
27. 
"Province of Buenos Aires" means a Participating Province.
28. 
"Signature Date" means the latest of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed the Loan Agreement.
29. 
"SME" means a micro, small or medium sized enterprise, defined as such in the
Operational Manual.
30. 
"Training and Workshops" means expenditures (other than those for consulting services)
incurred by the Borrower, through MM, as approved by the Bank on the basis of an annual
budget acceptable to the Bank in connection with the carrying out of workshop and/or
training activities, including reasonable transportation costs and per-diem of trainees and
trainers or workshop participants (if applicable), training registration fees, and rental of
training or workshop facilities and equipment under the Project.
31. 
"Underlying Expenditures" means expenditures within the MM's budgetary allocation for
modernization of government administrative services, which consist of salaries of the
MM's staff and utilities costs (such as electricity, water, gas, telephone, internet, cellular
phones, and post) all which have been incurred by MM in connection with the
implementation of Parts 1.1(a), 1.1(c), 2.2 and 3.2 (a) of the Project (and thus said set of
expenditures constitute a subset of the Eligible Expenditures defined in the General
Conditions).
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
-21-
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually
in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 and a new paragraph 88 with
the following definition of "Commitment Charge" and "Signature Date", respectively, and
renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
"88. 
Signature Date" means the latest of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed the Loan Agreement."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01
(a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition
of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and
Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
-22-
8. 
Any reference to "the date of the Loan Agreement" shall be modified with the term
"Signature Date".
