OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8744-CN
Loan Agreement
(China Health Reform Program for Results)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION.
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
,2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8744-CN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
o 
, 2017, between PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC 
OF 
CHINA 
("Borrower") 
and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE I1 -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of six hundred million Dollars
($600,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the program described in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement ("Program").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall
be deposited by the Bank into accounts specified by the Borrower and acceptable
to the Bank.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, however, that the interest payable shall in no event be less than zero
percent (0%) per annum; and provided furthermore that, upon a Conversion of all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the
Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
-2-
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance
remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty
days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as
provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April 1 and October I in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.09. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure
Limit (as said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of
this Section), the Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of
-3-.
one half of one percent (0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess
Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for
each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if any)
shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set
forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during
which the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit,
the product of: (A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the
ratio of all (or, if the Bank so determines, a portion) of the Loan
to the aggregate amount of all (or the equivalent portions) of the
loans made by the Bank to the Borrower and to other borrowers
guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an exposure
surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined from
time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the Bank's
financial exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded, would subject the
Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined from time to time by the
Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total financial
exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Program. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause the Program to be carried out by the Program
Implementing Entities in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and the Program Agreements.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Program is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
-4-
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Xicheng District
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Facsimile:
(86-10) 6855-2077
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Facsimile:
1-202-477-6391
-5-
AGREED at Beijing, People's Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By
Authorized Representative
Name:
Title: 
.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
t--7w ' 
-rwe
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized 
presentative
Name: 
_________
Title: 
.
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Description
The objective of the Program is to improve the quality of healthcare services and
the efficiency of the healthcare delivery systems in Anhui and Fujian provinces.
The Program consists of the following activities:
1. 
Public Hospital Reform. Improving the quality and efficiency of hospital services
through the design and implementation of key measures including, inter alia:
(i) improving the governance and management of public hospitals; (ii) controlling
the growth of health expenditures; (iii) strengthening quality assurance in the
delivery of hospital services; and (iv) institutionalizing an effective hospital
monitoring and evaluation system that is integrated with the HMIS.
2. 
Establishment of a PCIC-based Service Delivery System. Establishing an
efficient, high-quality and accountable PCIC-based service delivery system
through, 
inter alia: (i) strengthening 
primary 
care 
service 
capacity;
(ii) transforming service delivery, including institutional and organizational
reforms, to strengthen integrated service provision for NCDs; (iii) enhancing the
quality of primary care services through the adoption and improvements of
evidence-based 
clinical pathways, clinical protocols, continuous 
quality
improvement in health facilities, and quality monitoring and public disclosure by
health administration and/or health insurers; (iv) introducing prospective provider-
payment schemes to incentivize the provision of integrated NCD management; and
(v) establishing an enabling environment for PCIC through policy reforms and an
enhanced HMIS.
3. 
Policy development, stewardship 
and institutional capacity-building.
Strengthening the government's institutional capacity and information systems to
conduct policy reforms by, inter alia: (i) strengthening the health sector's
governance and organizational arrangements; (ii) developing comprehensive
service management and information systems to support service delivery and
reform; (iii) providing training to health providers and para-professionals to
improve the delivery of both hospital and PCIC services; and (iv) strengthening
program stewardship at the central, provincial and local levels, including
implementation capacity.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Program Execution
Section .
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Program Fiduciary, Environmental, and Social Systems
Without limitation on the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the
Borrower shall carry out the Program, or cause the Program to be carried out, in
accordance with financial management, procurement and environmental and social
management systems acceptable to the Bank ("Program Fiduciary, Environmental,
and Social Systems") which are designed to ensure that:
1. 
the Loan proceeds are used for their intended purposes, with due attention
to principles of economy, efficiency, effectiveness, transparency, and
accountability; and
2. 
the actual and potential adverse environmental and social impacts of the
Program are identified, avoided, minimized, or mitigated, as the case may
be, all through an informed decision-making process.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
carry out the Program, or cause the Program to be carried out, in accordance with
the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Other Program Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
1 .
Financing Arrangements
For the purposes of carrying out of the Program, the Borrower shall make available
a portion of the proceeds of the Loan to the Program Implementing Entities, under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including the following principal
terms:
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars or any other
Currency as the Loan may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion (such principal amount determined on the date, or
respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of the value of the
currency or currencies so withdrawn.
(b) 
The principal amount so made available (including an amount equal to the
fee paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement and any premium for
-8-
Interest Rate Caps or Interest Rate Collars paid pursuant to Section 2.08(c)
of this Agreement and Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions) shall be
recovered over a period of thirty-four (34) years, inclusive of a grace
period of five (5) years.
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of
Section 2.05 of this Agreement.
(d) 
A Commitment Charge shall be charged equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Program Implementing Entities, to: (a) manage,
operate, monitor, transfer and reconcile the proceeds of the Loan made available
to them pursuant to paragraph I above in accordance with arrangements and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank; (b) take all required actions, including
provision of timely consents and approvals as may be necessary, to facilitate the
utilization of said Loan proceeds and the implementation of the Program and, to
enable the Program Implementing Entities to comply with their undertakings
under the Program Agreements; and (c) maintain all relevant records and
documents related to the Loan and the Program and provide promptly such
documents and records, including all other information, as may be requested by
the Borrower or the Bank from time to time.
3. 
Program Institutions
Without limitation on the generality of Part C of this Section I and in order to
ensure the proper carrying out of the Program, the Borrower shall maintain, and
cause to be maintained, the following entities with composition, powers, functions,
staffing, facilities and other resources satisfactory to the Bank:
(a) 
the SCHRO, to provide leadership, policy guidance and coordination in
the preparation and implementation of the Program; and
(b) 
the CPSM, to be responsible for supporting SCHRO with the overall
coordination, management and supervision of the Program, including the
provision of support to the Program Implementing Entities in the carrying
out of the Program through knowledge-sharing and provision of technical
assistance and capacity building.
4. 
Program Action Plan
The Borrower shall take, and shall cause the Program Implementing Entities to
take, all measures necessary to comply with, or all measures necessary to enable
the Program Implementing Entities to comply with, the provisions of Section I.C.2
of the Schedule to the Program Agreements.
Section H. 
Excluded Activities
The Borrower shall ensure that the Program excludes any activities which:
A. 
in the opinion of the Bank, are likely to have significant adverse impacts
that are sensitive, diverse, or unprecedented on the environment and/or
affected people; or
B. 
involve the procurement of: (1) works, estimated to cost US$ 75 million
equivalent or more per contract; (2) goods, estimated to cost US$ 50
million equivalent or more per contract; (3) non-consulting services,
estimated to cost US$ 40 million equivalent or more per contract; or (4)
consultants' services, estimated to cost US$ 20 million equivalent or more
per contract.
Section III. 
Program Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation: Audits
A. 
Program Reports
The Borrower shall cause the Program Implementing Entities to monitor and
evaluate the progress of the Program and prepare Program Reports in accordance
with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions. Each Program
Report shall cover the period of six (6) months, and shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than ninety (90) days after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Program Financial Audits
Without limitation on the generality of Section I.A of this Schedule 2 and Section
5.09 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall have the Financial Statements
audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General
Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one
fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than nine (9) months after the end of such
period.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank may specify from time to time by notice to the Borrower
-10-
to: (a) pay the Front-end Fee; (b) pay each Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar
premium; and (c) finance the Program Expenditures, on the basis of the results
("Disbursement Linked Results" or "DLRs") achieved by the Program
Implementing Entities, as measured against specific indicators ("Disbursement
Linked Indicators" or "DLIs"); as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 of this Part
A.
2. 
The following table specifies each category of withdrawal of the proceeds of the
Loan (including the Disbursement Linked Indicators as applicable) ("Category"),
the Disbursement Linked Results for each Category (as applicable), and the
allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category:
Category 
Disbursement 
Amount of 
Disbursement
(including 
Linked Result (as 
the Loan 
Calculation
Disbursement Linked 
applicable) 
Allocated 
Formula
Indicator as applicable) 
(expressed
in USD)
(1) 
DLI #1.1 
DLR #1.1: 
15,000,000 
DLR #1.1:
(Anhui): The county- 
Target: 50 
$15,000,000
level IDS System has 
counties/districts
been scaled up to at least
50 counties/districts in 
(Baseline: 0)
Anhui.
DLI #1.2 
DLR # 1.2: 
40,000,000 
DLR #1.2:
(Fujian): The integration 
Target: 
The 
$40,000,000
of the management of the 
management 
of the
three 
health 
insurance 
three health insurance
schemes at the provincial 
schemes 
has 
been
level in Fujian has been 
integrated 
at 
the
undertaken. 
provincial 
level 
in
Fujian.
(Baseline: 0)
(2) DLI #2: Proportion of DLR #2.1 (Anhui): 
68,000,000 
DLR # 2.1
discharged patients for Target 32% 
Allocation per FY:
whom 
county-level
public general hospitals 
(Baseline: 12%) 
FY17: $17,000,000
and TCM hospitals are 
FY18: $17,000,000
paid through Case-based 
FY19: $10,200,000
Payment. 
FY20: $23,800,000
- 11 -
Unit Price:
$3,400,000 for
each percentage
point (1%)
increase.
DLR #2.2 (Fujian): 
68,150,000 
DLR #2.2
Target 50% 
Allocation per FY:
(Baseline: 3%) 
FY17: $10,150,000
FY18: $14,500,000
FY19: $21,750,000
FY20: $21,750,000
Unit Price:
$1,450,000 for
each percentage
point (1%)
increase.
Formula:
(Achievement -
Baseline) x Unit
Price - cumulative
disbursed amount.
(3) DLI #3: Proportion of DLR #3.1 (Anhui): 
66,240,000 
DLR #3.1
inpatients treated through Target 50% 
Allocation per FY:
the use of Standardized
Clinical 
Pathways 
at (Baseline: 4%) 
FY17: $44,640,000
county 
level 
public 
FY18: $7,200,000
general hospitals. 
FY19: $7,200,000
FY20: $7,200,000
Unit Price:
$1,440,000 for
each percentage
point (1%)
increase.
DLR #3.2 (Fujian) 
66,090,000
DLR #3.2.1: 
DLR #3.2.1:
$16,090,000
-12-
At least 100
Standardized Clinical
Pathways have been
developed.
DLR #3.2.2: 
DLR #3.2.2
Target 50% 
Allocation per FY:
(Baseline: 0) 
FY18: $15,000,000
FY19: $20,000,000
FY20: $15,000,000
Unit Price:
$1,000,000 for
each percentage
point (1%) increase
Formula:
(Achievement 
-
Baseline) x 
Unit
Price - cumulative
disbursed amount
(4) DLI #4: Proportion of DLR #4.1 (Anhui): 
40,000,000 
DLR# 4.1
Outpatient Care Services 
Target 61.8% 
Allocation per FY:
delivered at Primary Care
Facilities. 
(Baseline: 61%) 
FY17: $10,000,000
FY18: $10,000,000
FY19: $10,000,000
FY20: $10,000,000
Unit Price
$5,000,000 for
each tenth (0.1%)
of a percentage
point increase.
DLR #4.2 (Fujian): 
40,000,000 
DLR# 4.2
Target 55% 
Allocation per FY:
(Baseline: 51%) 
FY17: $10,000,000
FY18: $10,000,000
FY19: $10,000,000
FY20: $10,000,000
-13-
Unit Price
$10,000,000 for
each percentage
point (1%)
increase.
Formula:
(Achievement 
-
Baseline) x 
Unit
Price - cumulative
disbursed amount
(5) DLI #5: Number of DLR #5.1 (Anhui) 
45,047,500
prefectures that manage
Type 11 diabetes patients DLR #5.1.1: 
DLR # 5.1.1:
using the Integrated NCD 
$15,047,500
Service Package'. 
The protocols for Type
II diabetes under the
Integrated 
NCD
service package have
been developed.
DLR #5.1.2: 
DLR #5.1.2:
Target: 6 prefectures 
$30,000,000 out of
which $5,000,000
(Baseline: 0) 
for each new
prefecture.
DLR #5.2 (Fujian) 
44,972,500
DLR #5.2.1 (Fujian): 
DLR #5.2.1:
$14,972,500
The protocols for Type
II diabetes under the
Integrated 
NCD
service package have
been developed
I DLR #5.2.2 (Fujian): 
DLR # 5.2.2:
'To qualify as "managing patients using the NCD package", the respective prefecture must manage
at least 25% of the target patients in this manner.
-14-
Target: 4 prefectures 
$30,000,000 out of
which $7,500,000
(Baseline: 0) 
for each new
prefecture.
(6) DLI #6: Number of DLR #6 (Anhui): 
50,000,000 
DLR #6:
counties/districts 
in Target: 20 
$50,000,000 of
Anhui 
that 
have 
counties/districts 
which $2,500,000
established 
a 
county- 
for each new
township-village 
(Baseline: 0) 
county/district
population 
health
information system with
inter-connectivity and at
least two of the following
functions: dual referral,
family-doctor 
services,
EMR, 
long-distance
medical 
imaging, 
and
long-distance 
electro
cardiography.
(7) DLI #7: Number of DLR #7 (Fujian): 
50,000,000 
DLR #7:
THCs/CHCs in Fujian Target: 500 
$50,000,000 out of
that 
have 
established 
THCs/CHCs 
which $100,000 for
acceptable primary care 
each new
health 
information 
(Baseline: 0) 
THC/CHC
systems, 
including 
at
least two of the following
functions: long-distance
medical imaging, cardiac
diagnostic, 
lab-test
reporting, 
EMR, 
and
dual-referral.
(8) 
DLI 
#8: 
Program 
DLR #8.1 (national): 
5,000,000 
DLR #8.1:
experience sharing and In FY17: Learning 
$1,500,000
dissemination (national). 
groups have been
established for each of
the three Key Reform
Areas.
DLR #8.2: In FY18, 
DLR #8.2:
(a) operational 
$1,500,000
research under each of
the three Key Reform
Areas has been
launched, including:
(i) TORs have been
-15-
developed; (ii)
consulting services
have been contracted;
and (iii) the technical
design has been
formulated; and (b) at
least two national
workshops on health
reform in China have
been organized.
DLR #8.3: In FY19, 
DLR 8.3:
(a) hold one 
$1,000,000
international
workshop and two
national workshops
related to health
reform in China; (b)
preparation of a report
documenting the
Program experience
on one of the Key
Reform Areas; and (c)
completion of one
operational research
report under each of
the three Key Reform
Areas.
DLR #8.4: In FY20, 
DLR 8.4:
(a) hold one 
$1,000,000
international
workshop and two
national workshops
related to health
reform in China; and
(b) preparation of two
reports to document
the Program
experience on the two
remaining Key
Reform Areas.
(9) Front-end Fee to be 
1,500,000 
Amount payable
paid pursuant to Section 
pursuant to Section
.- 2.03 of this Agreement in 
2.03 of this
-16-
accordance with Section 
Agreement in
2.07(b) of the General 
accordance with
Conditions 
Section 2.07 (b) of
the General
Conditions
(10) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due
Interest 
Rate 
Collar 
pursuant to Section
premium 
to 
be 
paid 
2.08(c) of this
pursuant 
to 
Section 
Agreement
2.08(c) of this Agreement
in 
accordance 
with
Section 
4.05 of the
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
600,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
for purposes of Section 2.03 of the General Conditions (renumbered as
such pursuant to paragraph 6 of Section II of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Program Expenditures), for DLRs achieved
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $55,000,000 may be made for DLRs under
Category (1), achieved prior to this date but on or after May 5, 2016; and
(b) 
for any DLR under Categories (1) through (8), unless the respective
Program Implementing Entity (or the Borrower for DLR (8)) has furnished
all required verification documents and information satisfactory to the
Bank showing that said DLR has been achieved. Such documentation and
information shall be verified in accordance with the provisions of the
Verification Protocol, based on reports prepared by the relevant Program
Implementing Entity, certifying the achievement of the DLRs in
accordance with procedures and arrangements satisfactory to the Bank.
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.1(b) of this Section, the Borrower may
withdraw an amount not to exceed $150,000,000 as an advance under any of
Categories (2) through (8); provided, however, that if the DLRs corresponding to
said Categories, in the opinion of the Bank, are not achieved (or only partially
achieved) by the Closing Date, the Borrower shall refund such advance (or portion
of such advance as determined by the Bank in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph B.3 of this Section) to the Bank promptly upon notice thereof by the
Bank. Except as otherwise agreed with the Borrower, the Bank shall cancel the
amount so refunded. Any further withdrawals requested as an advance under any
- 17-
Category shall be permitted only on such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.1(b) of this Section, if in the opinion of
the Bank any of the DLRs under Categories (1) through (8) has not been achieved
by the date by which the said DLR is set to be achieved, the Bank may, by notice
to the Borrower:
(a) 
authorize the withdrawal of such lesser amount of the unwithdrawn
proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said Category which, in the opinion
of the Bank, corresponds to the extent of achievement of said DLR, said
lesser amount to be calculated in accordance with the Disbursement
Calculation Formula set out in the fourth column of the table in Section
IV.A.2 of this Schedule;
(b) 
reallocate all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said
DLR to any other DLR; and/or
(c) 
cancel all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said
DLR
4. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2021.
5. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section IV, if at any time after
the Closing Date the Borrower has failed to provide evidence satisfactory to the
Bank that the Withdrawn Loan Balance does not exceed the total amount of
Program Expenditures paid by the Borrower, exclusive of any such expenditures
financed by any other financier or by the Bank under any other loan or grant, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
excess amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance. 
The Bank shall cancel the
refunded amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each April I and October 1
Beginning October 1, 2022 
1.72%
through October 1, 2050
On April 1, 2051 
1.96%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
-19-
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
-20-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Achievement" means, in respect of any DLR under Categories (2), (3), and (4),
the actual target achieved under a given DLR in the relevant FY, up to a maximum
not to exceed the corresponding Allocation per FY, and which has been verified as
per the Verification Protocol.
2. 
"Anhui Province" and "Anhui" means the Borrower's Province of Anhui, or any
successor thereto, and one of the Program Implementing Entities for the purpose
of the General Conditions.
3. 
"Anhui Provincial Healthcare Reform Leading Group" means Anhui's leading
group established in June 2009, comprising its Governor as chair and
representatives of key line departments, or a successor thereto; and referred to in
Section I.C.1 (a) of the Schedule to the Program Agreement with Anhui.
4. 
"Anhui Provincial Healthcare Reform Leading Group Office" means the office
established by Anhui on June 2009, responsible for the overall implementation of
the Program in Anhui, and referred to in Section I.C. I (b) of the Schedule to the
Program Agreement with Anhui.
5. 
"Annual Work Plan, Targets and Fund Utilization Plans" means each of the rolling
plans of activities, targets and overall fund utilization plans for the Program to be
prepared or updated by the Program Implementing Entities on an annual basis as
provided for in Section I.C.3 of the Schedule to each of the Program Agreements.
6. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the Bank's "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Program-for-Results Financing," dated
February 1, 2012, and revised July 10, 2015.
7. 
"Baseline" means, in respect of any DLR, the corresponding figure or percentage
set forth in the second column of the table in Section lV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
8. 
"Case-based Payment" means a hospital payment system in which a hospital is
reimbursed for each discharged inpatient at rates established prospectively for
groups of cases with similar clinical profile and resource requirements.
9. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
10. 
"CHCs" means community health centers located in urban areas.
-21-
11. 
"CPSM" means Center for Project Supervision and Management, the center
established for said purpose under the Borrower's National Health and Family
Planning Commission.
12. 
"Disbursement Linked Indicator" or "DLI" means in respect of a given Category,
the indicator related to said Category as set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
13. 
"Disbursement Linked Result" or "DLR" means in respect of a given Category,
the result under said Category as set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule
2 to this Agreement, on the basis of the achievement of which, the amount of the
Loan allocated to said result may be withdrawn in accordance with the provisions
of said Section IV.
14. 
"EMR" means medical records in electronic format.
15. 
"Fiscal Year" or "FY" means a fiscal year of the Borrower, running from January
1 to December 31.
16. 
"Fujian Province" and "Fujian" means the Borrower's Province of Fujian, or any
successor thereto, and one of the Program Implementing Entities for the purpose
of the General Conditions.
17. 
"Fujian Provincial Healthcare Reform Leading Group" means Fujian's leading
group established in April 2009, comprising its Party Secretary-General as chair
and representatives of key line departments, or a successor thereto; and referred to
in Section I.C.1 (a) of the Schedule to the Program Agreement with Fujian.
18. 
"Fujian Provincial Health and Family Planning Commission" means the
commission established by Fujian, organized within Fujian's Provincial
Government, responsible for the overall implementation of the Program in Fujian,
and referred to in Section I.C. 1 (b) of the Schedule to the Program Agreement with
Fujian.
19. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
20. 
"HIS" means Health Management Information System, a Borrower's system
which integrates data collection, processing, reporting and use of the information
necessary for improving health service effectiveness and efficiency.
21. 
"IDS System" means integrated delivery system for health services, an
organizational system for physicians and providers at different levels, including
-22-
primary health care and hospitals, to operate under a cohesive structure with an
aim at coordinating seamless delivery of high-quality healthcare services over the
continuum of care.
22. 
"Integrated NCD Service Package" means a medical service package entailing the
following key elements: (a) community risk stratification for Type II diabetes
patients is conducted by primary health service providers; (b) the tailored
health/disease management packages are defined for various risk groups; and (c)
the general practitioner multi-disciplinary team signs a service agreement with
residents, based on the tailored service packages, and provides disease
management according to a defined clinical pathway.
23. 
"Key Reform Areas" means: (a) clinical pathway; (b) Case-based Payment; and
(c) integrated NCD service management.
24. 
"National Health Reform Monitoring Indicators System" means the Borrower's
system, managed by SCHRO, to monitor the progress of health reform nationwide.
25. 
"NCD" means non-communicable disease.
26. 
"Outpatient Care Services" means the services described as such and set forth in
the Borrower's National Health Reform Monitoring Indicators System, including
outpatient services, emergency services, home visits, physical check-up and health
consultations.
27. 
"PCIC" means people-centered integrated care.
28. 
"Primary Care Facility" means a care facility with due registration and license, and
classified under one of the following categories: (a) community health
centers/stations; (b) township health centers; (c) village clinics; or (d) outpatient
clinics.
29. 
"Program Action Plan" means each of the Program Implementing Entities' plans
dated March 31, 2017, and referred to in Section I.C.4 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and Section I.C.2 of the Schedule to each of the Program Agreements,
as these may be amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the
Bank.
30. 
"Program Agreements" means, collectively, the agreements between the Bank and
Anhui, and between the Bank and Fujian, respectively, of even date herewith, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to such Program Agreements.
31. 
"Program Fiduciary, Environmental, and Social Systems" means the Program
Implementing Entities' systems for the Program referred to in Section L.A of
-23 -
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and Section L.A of the Schedule to each of the
Program Agreements.
32. 
"Program Implementing Entities" means, collectively, Anhui and Fujian.
33. 
"SCHRO" means the State Council Healthcare Reform Office organized under the
Borrower's State Council.
34. 
"Standardized Clinical Pathways" means multidisciplinary evidence-based care
plans that provide specific guidance on the sequencing of care steps and the
timeline of interventions, standardized province-wide with the goal of improving
outcomes, reducing cost and standardizing care.
35. 
"TCM" means Traditional Chinese Medicine.
36. 
"THCs" means township health centers located in rural areas.
37. 
"Type II diabetes" means diabetes mellitus type 2, a long term metabolic disorder
that is characterized by high blood sugar, insulin resistance, and relative lack of
insulin.
38. 
"Unit Price" means, in respect of any DLR, the amount set forth in the fourth
column of the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
39. 
"Verification Protocol" means the protocol setting forth the actions and
mechanism required for verification of DLIs, agreed with the Bank, dated March
31, 2017, and referred to in Section IV.B.1(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as
the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
Wherever used throughout the General Conditions, the term "the Project" is
modified to read "the Program", the term "the Project Agreement" is modified to
read "the Program Agreement", the term "Project Implementing Entity" is
modified to read "the Program Implementing Entity", the term "Project Report" is
modified to read "Program Report"; and the term "Eligible Expenditures" is
modified to read "Program Expenditures".
2. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the amendments set forth below.
-24-
3. 
Section 2.02, Special Commitment by the Bank, is deleted in its entirety, and the
subsequent Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
4. 
In Section 2.02 (originally numbered as Section 2.03), the heading "Applications
for Withdrawal or for Special Commitment" is replaced with "Applications for
Withdrawal", and the phrase "or to request the Bank to enter into a Special
Commitment" is deleted.
5. 
The section originally numbered as Section 2.04, Designated Accounts is deleted
in its entirety, and the subsequent Sections in Article II are renumbered
accordingly.
6. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (originally numbered as Section 2.05), Eligible
Expenditures (renamed "Program Expenditures" in accordance with paragraph 1
of this Section II), is modified to read: "(a) the payment is for the financing of the
reasonable cost of expenditures required for the Program and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of the Legal
Agreements;".
7. 
The last sentence of Section 2.04 (originally numbered as Section 2.06), Financing
Taxes, is modified to read: "To that end, if the Bank at any time determines that
the amount of any such Tax is excessive, or that such Tax is discriminatory or
otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, exclude such
amount or such Tax from the Program Expenditures to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, as required to ensure consistency with such policy of the
Bank."
8. 
Section 2.06 (originally numbered as Section 2.08), Reallocation, is modified to
read:
"Notwithstanding any allocation of an amount of the Loan to a withdrawal
category under the Loan Agreement, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
reallocate any other amount of the Loan to such category if the Bank reasonably
determines at any time that such reallocation is appropriate for the purposes of the
Program.
9. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
-25-
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. 
The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date."
10. 
Section 7.01, Cancellation by the Borrower, is modified to read: "The Borrower
may, by notice to the Bank, cancel any amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance."
11. 
Paragraph 
(d) of Section 
7.03, 
Cancellation by 
the Bank, entitled
"Misprocurement", is deleted, and subsequent paragraphs are re-lettered
accordingly.
12. 
Section 7.04, Amounts Subject to Special Commitment not Affected by
Cancellation or Suspension by the Bank, is deleted in its entirety, and subsequent
Sections in Article VII and references to such Sections are renumbered
accordingly.
13. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above.
14. 
A new paragraph 19 is inserted with the following definition of "Commitment
Charge", and the remaining paragraphs are renumbered accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.0 1(b)."
15. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
16. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any
prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of
a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable
upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any
Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
17. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
-26-
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
18. 
Renumbered paragraph 88 (originally paragraph 87) of the Appendix, setting forth
the definition of "Special Commitment" is deleted in its entirety, and all
subsequent paragraphs are renumbered accordingly.
