OFFICIAL 
DOCUMENTS 
LOAN NUMBER 8650-CM 
Loan Agreement 
(Transport Sector Development Project) 
between 
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON 
and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
11 h 
'~ ..1-o 
Dated 
v'1, /'v'l, 
, 2017 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
OFFICIAL 
DOCI ,~,,~~,T~ 
LOAN NUMBER 8650-CM 
Loan Agreement 
(Transport Sector Development Project) 
between 
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON 
and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
n 11 
.. ,1 .:1--0 
Dated 
v'1, l'V'l, 
, 2017 
- - -
' 
LOAN NUMBER 8650-CM 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT 
dated ~riJ. >P 2017, 
between REPUBLIC 
OF 
CAMEROON ("Borrower") and INTEkNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute 
an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix 
to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II -
LOAN 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred and seventy-two million 
four hundred thousand Euros (EUR 172,400,000), as such amount may be 
converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing 
the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project"). 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section 
N of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of 
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance. 
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, 
that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such ammmt 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article N of the 
General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General 
Conditions. 
-2-
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are November 15 and May 15 in each year. 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or 
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all 
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the 
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and 
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or ( C) all of the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable 
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of 
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by 
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) ofthis Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in 
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines. 
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, 
the Borrower shall carry out Parts 1, 2, 4(a)(i) and 4(b) of the Project through 
MINTP in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions 
and cause Parts 3 and 4(a)(ii) of the Project to be carried out by CCAA in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement. 
-3-
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
(a) 
CCAA's Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of CCAA to 
perform any of its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement. 
(b) 
CCAA shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Agreement. 
( c) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this Agreement, 
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that CCAA will be able to perform any of its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Agreement. 
( d) 
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of CCAA or for the 
suspension of its operations. 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: 
(a) 
Any event spec_ified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of ninety (90) days after 
notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
(b) 
The event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
occurs. 
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
(a) 
The Borrower has expanded the mandate of the Project Steering 
Committee in accordance with the provisions of Section I.A. I of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement. 
(b) 
The Borrower has expanded the mandate of the Special Tender Board in 
accordance with Section I.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
( c) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and CCAA in accordance with Section LB of Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and the CCAA Tender Board has been established in accordance with 
Section LB. I ( c) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
-4-
( d) 
CCAA has recruited a procurement specialist in accordance with the 
provisions of Section LB. I (b )(i)(A) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
( e) 
The Borrower has disclosed the ESMP and ESIA in accordance with the 
provisions of Section I.F.6 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the Subsidiary 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and CCAA and is 
legally binding upon the Borrower and CCAA in accordance with its terms. 
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its minister at the time responsible for economy, 
planning and regional development. 
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is: 
Ministry of Economy, Planning and Regional Development 
Yaounde 
Republic of Cameroon 
Facsimile: 
(237) 222 22 15 09 
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is: 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
248423(MCI) or 64145(MCI) 
1-202-477-6391 
-5-
AGREED at Washington D.C., United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON 
By 
Authorized Representative 
Name: J.,y«,1;) · /a_k) ll[ Dml.f 
crud z;:l>f ;J;/:t~Jk,mJ 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
By 
Authorized Representative 
Name:-t/~~ 
Title: ~/;y £/« ~ 
-6-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description 
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) strengthen transport planning; (b) improve 
transport efficiency and safety on the Babadjou-Bamenda section of the Yaounde-
Bamenda transport corridor; and ( c) enhance safety and security at selected airports. 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
1. 
Provision of support towards transport planning, including, inter alia: 
(a) 
design and implementation of training in transport planning, including 
data collection and management of modeling tools; 
(b) 
preparation of legal and operational instruments to support the 
establishment of: (i) a transport regulatory entity; (ii) a regional road 
corridors management entity; 
( c) 
preparation of the transport priority investment program; 
( d) 
identification and preparation of pilot transport infrastructure public-
private partnership projects; and 
( e) 
development of a resilience and climate change adaptation strategy for 
land transport. 
2. 
Implementation of a program of activities to improve the Borrower's road transport 
efficiency, through, inter alia: 
(a) 
rehabilitation and reconstruction of the Babdjou-Bamenda road section of 
the Yaounde-Bamenda road corridor; 
(b) 
support to the implementation of complementary infrastructure aimed at 
the enhancement of access to agricultural zones and provision of social 
services 
along the Babadjou-Bamenda highway, 
consisting of: 
(i) improvement of 25 kilometers of existing secondary roads, small 
market infrastructure and minor water supply schemes in villages along 
the selected secondary roads and (ii) improvement of an additional 25 
kilometers of existing secondary roads; 
( c) 
strengthening of road safety oversight, including: (i) carrying out of select 
surveys and studies on road safety; (ii) purchase of four (4) speed control 
radar cameras with complementary equipment and installation of said 
-7-
cameras on along the Yaounde-Baffoussam-Bamenda corridor; and 
(iii) improvement of road networks with safety targeted features; and 
( d) 
strengthening the road asset management through provision of technical 
assistance and equipment, including: (i) provision of technical assistance 
including specified training to select MINTP and MINMAP staff and 
support, consisting of design and preparation of bidding documents, 
towards the establishment of a 10-year output based performance contract 
for routine periodic maintenance of select road networks; (ii) development 
of enforcement tools for quality standards of road works design and 
execution; and (iii) strengthening of road network monitoring and 
management. 
3. 
Improvement of air transport safety and security through, inter a/ia: 
(a) 
strengthening of airport safety and security infrastructure, including; 
(i) construction of a crisis management center at the Yaounde, Garoua and 
Maroua-Salak airports; (ii) construction or rehabilitation, as the case may 
be, of security fences for the Douala and Yaounde airports; 
(iii) improvement of security perimeter roads around the Douala and 
Yaounde airports; (iv) carrying out of studies to identify the socio-
economic infrastructure needs of the neighborhoods surrounding the 
Douala, Yaounde, Garoua and Maroua-Salak airports; (v) purchase and 
installation of airport security equipment 
and update of the safety 
management systems in the Douala, Yaounde, Garoua and Maroua-Salak 
airports; and (vi) purchase of security vehicles and luggage management 
systems; 
(b) 
strengthening air transport safety and security oversight, including: 
(i) updating of aviation safety and security manuals, creation of a systemic 
renewal and subscription process for key CCAA aviation manuals, 
transformation of the aviation library into an online platform and provision 
of training to select government and CCAA aviation staff; (ii) carrying out 
of diagnostic studies on the Borrower's civil aviation industry including 
the preparation of medium to long term programs aimed at compliance 
with ICAO's standards and recommended practices; and (iii) updating of 
the Borrower's regulatory framework for the purpose of harmonizing said 
framework to the Civil Aviation Law; and 
(c) 
strengthening of CCAA' capacity in air transport planning, including, 
inter alia: (i) design and creation of an operational air transport data bank; 
(ii) design and development of tools for enhanced efficient supervision of 
air transport activities, (iii) design and implementation of a monitoring 
framework with tools for effective implementation of corrective action 
4. 
(a) 
-8-
plans directed at compliance audits; and (iv) awareness campaigns arid 
stakeholder engagement activities. 
Project management and monitoring support through, inter alia, advisory 
services, purchase of equipment, provision of Training, audits, Operating 
Costs, monitoring and evaluation activities for: (i) Parts 1 and 2 of the 
Project; and (ii) Part 3 of the Project; and 
(b) 
Borrower's project coordination support. 
-9-
SCHEDULE2 
Section I. 
Project Execution 
Implementation Arrangements 
A. 
1. 
2. 
Institutional Arrangements 
Project Steering Committee 
(a) 
The Borrower shall extend the mandate of the Project Steering Committee 
and thereafter maintain at all times until the completion of the Project, the 
Project Steering Committee with composition, mandate and resources 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
(b) 
The Project Steering Committee shall meet at least once annually and shall 
be 
responsible 
for 
Project 
oversight, 
including, 
inter 
alia: 
(i) reviewing the proposed Annual Work Plans and Budgets for the 
Project, (ii) providing overall Project oversight and guidance, and 
(iii) identifying necessary Project adjustments based on monitoring and 
evaluation reports. 
Project Implementation Unit 
(a) 
For purposes of Parts 1, 2, 4(a)(i) and 4(b) of the Project, the Borrower 
shall maintain at all times until the completion of the Project, the Project 
Implementation Unit within the MINTP with terms of reference and 
resources satisfactory to the Bank ("Project Implementation Unit"). 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Paragraph (a) of Section I.A.2 
of this Schedule 2, the Project Implementation Unit shall at all times: 
(i) be comprised of qualified and experienced personnel in adequate 
numbers, and to this end, inter alia, no later than two (2) months after the 
Effective Date, recruit a junior procurement specialist and an 
environmental specialist and a social specialist, all with qualifications and 
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; (ii) be responsible for the day-
to-day Project coordination and implementation, including: (A) preparing 
each proposed Annual Work Plan and Budget for the Project, updating the 
Procurement Plan and consolidating the Project reports for the Project 
Steering Committee; (B) carrying out all Project procurement activities 
including developing and maintaining a comprehensive procurement 
filing system for Parts 1, 2, 4(a)(i) and 4(b) of the Project; and 
(C) monitoring and evaluating the Project. 
3. 
-10-
Special Tender Board 
To facilitate the carrying out of all Project procurement activities, the Borrower 
shall expand the mandate of the Special Tender Board, and thereafter maintain at 
all times during the implementation of the Project, the Special Tender Board with 
composition, terms of reference and resources satisfactory to the Bank, which shall 
include carrying out all procurement for Parts 1, 2, 4(a)(i) and 4(b) of the Project. 
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement 
1. 
In order to achieve the objectives of Parts 3 and 4(a)(ii) of the Project, the Borrower 
shall make part of the proceeds of the Loan available to CCAA under a subsidiary 
agreement between the Borrower and CCAA, under terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Bank ("Subsidiary Agreement"), which shall include, without 
limitation, the following: 
(a) 
Part of the proceeds of the Loan shall be made available to CCAA on grant 
terms. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall require CCAA to maintain within its structure, the 
Project implementing unit with composition, terms of reference and 
resources satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank which shall: (i) be 
comprised of qualified and experienced personnel in adequate numbers 
and to this end recruit, inter a/ia: (A) a procurement specialist, and (B) no 
later than two (2) months after the Effective Date, an internal auditor, an 
accountant and an environmental specialist, all with qualifications, 
experience and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) be 
responsible for day-to-day coordination, implementation and supervision 
of Parts 3 and 4(a)(ii) of the Project, including, inter a/ia: (A) preparing 
proposed annual work plans of activities for inclusion in the Project, and 
updating the applicable aspects of the procurement plan and related 
budgets and preparation of the relevant aspects of the Project Reports for 
the Project Steering Committee's review; (B) carrying out applicable 
Project financial management and procurement activities; (C) ensuring 
compliance with the Safeguard Instruments; and (D) monitoring and 
evaluating the applicable parts of the Project (CCAA-PIU). 
(c) 
The Borrower shall establish a special tender board ("CCAA Tender 
Board"), and thereafter maintain at all times during the implementation of 
the Project, the CCAA Tender Board with composition, terms of reference 
and resources satisfactory to the Bank. 
( d) 
The Borrower shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and those 
of the Bank, including the requirement that CCAA: 
-11-
(i) 
carry out its activities Wlder Parts 3 and 4(a)(ii) of the Project with 
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
technical, economic, financial, managerial, environmental and 
social standards and practices satisfactory to the Bank, including, 
without limitation to the generality of the foregoing, in accordance 
with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable 
to recipients of Loan proceeds other than the Borrower, the Project 
Implementation Manual, and the Safeguard Instruments; 
(ii) 
maintain policies and procedures, adequate to enable CCAA to 
monitor and evaluate in accordance with indicators acceptable to 
the Bank, the progress of the activities carried out under Parts 3 
and 4(a)(ii) of the Project and the achievement of its objectives; 
(iii) 
(A) maintain a financial management system and prepare financial 
statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting 
standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to 
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
activities carried out by CCAA W1der Parts 3 and 4(a)(ii) of the 
Project and (B) at the Bank's or the Borrower's request, have such 
financial statements audited by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, and furnish promptly to the 
Borrower and the Bank the financial statements as so audited; 
(iv) 
enable the Borrower and the Bank to inspect the activities carried 
out by CCAA Wlder Parts 3 and 4(a)(ii) of the Project, their 
operation and any relevant records and documents; and prepare 
and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such information as 
the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably request relating to the 
foregoing; and 
(v) 
refund all or any part of the amoW1t of the Loan then withdrawn, 
upon the Borrower's determination that CCAA has failed to 
perform any of its obligations W1der the Subsidiary Agreement. 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations W1der the 
Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower 
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. 
3. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower and CCAA shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its 
provisions. 
-12-
-13-
4. 
In the event of any conflict between the Subsidiary Agreement and the Loan 
Agreement, the Loan Agreement shall prevail. 
C. 
Anti-Corruption 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
D. 
Project Implementation Manual 
1. 
No later than two (2) months after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall update 
the Project Implementation Manual in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with said Project Implementation Manual and 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate, or waive the Project Implementation Manual, or any provision thereof. 
2. 
In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the Project Implementation 
Manual and those of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall 
prevail. 
E. 
Annual Work Plans and Budgets 
1. 
Not later than November 30 in each calendar year ( or one month after the Effective 
Date for the first year of Project implementation), the Borrower shall prepare or 
cause to be prepared for the purpose of forwarding to the Bank, a draft annual work 
plan and budget for the Project (including Training and Operating Costs) for the 
subsequent calendar year of Project implementation, of such scope and detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 
2. 
The Borrower shall afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to review such draft 
annual work plan and budget, and thereafter shall carry out ( or cause to be carried 
out) such annual work plan and budget during such subsequent calendar year as 
shall have been approved by the Bank ("Annual Work Plan and Budget"). Only 
those activities that are included in an Annual Work Plan and Budget shall be 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
3. 
Any Training proposed to be included in an Annual Work Plan and Budget, shall 
include, inter alia: (a) particulars of the Training envisaged; (b) the criteria for 
selection of the personnel to be trained, and such personnel if known; ( c) the 
selection method of the institution or individuals conducting such Training; ( d) the 
institution conducting such Training if identified; ( e) the purpose and justification 
for such Training; (f) the location and duration of the proposed training; and 
(g) the estimate of the cost of such Training. 
-14-
4. 
Annual Work Plans and Budgets may be revised as needed during Project 
implementation subject to the Bank's prior written approval. 
F. 
Safeguards 
1. 
The Borrower shall implement (or cause CCAA to implement) the Project in 
accordance with the relevant Safeguards Instruments, and shall, to that end: 
(a) 
if any activity under the Project would require the adoption of a 
Supplemental Safeguard Instrument: 
(i) 
prepare: (A) such Supplemental Safeguard Instrument in 
accordance with the applicable ESMF or RPF; (B) furnish such 
Supplemental Safeguard Instrument to the Bank for review and 
approval; and (C) thereafter adopt such Supplemental Safeguard 
Instrument prior to implementation of the activity; and 
(ii) 
thereafter take such measures as shall be necessary or appropriate 
to ensure full compliance with the requirements of such 
Supplemental Safeguard Instrument; and 
(b) 
if any activity under the Project would involve Affected Persons, ensure 
that no displacement (including restriction of access to legally designated 
parks and protected areas) shall occur before resettlement measures under 
the applicable RAP, including, in the case of displacement, full payment 
to Affected Persons of compensation and of other assistance required for 
relocation, have been taken. 
2. 
Without limitation upon its other reporting obligations under this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall, for each applicable Safeguard Instrument, regularly collect, 
compile and furnish to the Bank reports in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, on the status of compliance with each applicable Safeguard Instrument, as 
part of the Project Reports, giving details of: 
(a) 
measures taken in furtherance of such Safeguard Instrument; 
(b) 
conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the smooth 
implementation of such Safeguard Instrument; and 
( c) 
remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such 
conditions. 
3. 
In the event that any provision of the Safeguards Instruments shall conflict with 
any provision under this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 
-15-
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that: 
(a) 
all terms of reference for any technical assistance and studies to be carried 
out under the Project are consistent with the Bank's environmental and 
social safeguard policies; and 
(b) 
in any Project activity that may support the drafting of regulatory 
instruments for the purpose of the Project, due attention will be given to 
said policies. 
5. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of this Section I.F, the Borrower shall 
implement the applicable environmental and social safeguards in accordance with 
the Declaration d'Utilite Publique in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
6. 
Without limitations upon the provisions of Section I.F.1 ofthis Schedule 2 and to 
facilitate the carrying out of Parts 2(a), 2(b) and 3(a) of the Project, the Borrower 
shall: (a) prepare or cause to be prepared an ESMP and ESIA, (b) furnish such 
ESMP and ESIA to the Bank for review and approval; and ( c) thereafter disclose 
such ESMP and ESIA prior to the implementation of activities under said parts of 
the Project. 
G. 
Part 2(b) of the Project. 
No proposed infrastructure projects under Part 2(b) of the Project shall be eligible 
for financing unless selected on a demand driven basis and in accordance with the 
criteria further detailed in the Project Implementation Manual. 
Section II. 
Proiect Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
A. 
Project Reports 
The Borrower shall ( cause CCAA to) monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the 
Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and 
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of 
the period covered by such report. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
-16-
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of 
each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering 
the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The 
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank 
not later than six months after the end of such period. 
4. 
In furtherance of the provisions ofthis Section 11.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and not later than two (2) months after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall, and 
shall cause the CCAA to, adapt or establish as the case may be, for the purposes of 
the project, its computerized multi-project financial and accounting system in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank, and successfully train relevant staff in the use 
thereof. 
Section III. 
Procurement 
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Section. 
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section. 
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, 
as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting 
Services 
-17-
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting 
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
may be used for procurement of goods, works and nqn-consulting services for 
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: 
Procurement Method 
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding 
(b) 
Shopping 
(c) 
Direct Contracting 
(d) 
Procurement from United Nations Agencies 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following 
methods, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be used for 
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the 
Procurement Plan: 
Procurement Method 
(a) 
Quality-based Selection 
(b) 
Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c) 
Least-Cost Selection 
(d) 
Selection Based on the Consultants' Qualifications 
(e) 
Single-source Selection of consulting firms 
(f) 
Single-source procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
-18-
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
A. 
General 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the 
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised 
from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant 
to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in 
paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
Percentage of 
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be 
Allocated 
financed 
Category 
( expressed in Euro) 
(exclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Goods, works, non-
172,400,000 
100% 
consulting services, 
consultants' services, 
Training and Operating 
Costs for the Project 
except Parts 2(b) (ii), 
3(a)(v) and 4(b) of the 
Project 
(2) Front-end Fee 
Amount payable 
pursuant to Section 
2.03 of this 
Agreement in 
accordance with 
Section 2.07 (b) of 
the General 
Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
172,400,000 
-19-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed twenty percent (20%) of the 
Loan may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after January 31, 
2016, for Eligible Expenditures under Category (1). 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2022. 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings 
A. 
The Borrower shall: 
(1) 
maintain, throughout the implementation of the Project, in a financial 
institution and on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, an account 
into which it shall deposit all counterpart funds required for Parts 2(b )(ii), 
3(a)(v) and 4(b) of the Project ("Counterpart Funds Account"); 
(2) 
without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.03 of the General 
Conditions, on a schedule and in installments agreed with the Bank, but 
not later than thirty-six (36) months after the Effective Date, deposit into 
the Counterpart Funds Account, an amount in the Borrower's currency, 
equivalent to fourteen million seven hundred thousand Dollars 
($14,700,000) ("Counterpart Funds"); and 
(3) 
ensure that all amounts deposited in the Counterpart Funds Account be 
used exclusively to pay for Eligible Expenditures required for the relevant 
parts of the Project. 
B. 
Without limitations upon the provisions of Section 5.03 of the General Conditions, 
the Borrower shall waive any and all Taxes, applicable to all Eligible Expenditures 
under the Project. 
C. 
For purposes of Section 5 .06(b) of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall, not 
later than thirty-six (36) months after the Effective Date, enter into a ten (10)-year 
output performance-based contract with a qualified contractor for the maintenance 
of the Yaounde-Bamenda corridor. 
I. 
2. 
-20-
SCHEDULE3 
Amortization Schedule 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan 
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal 
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such 
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each November 15 and May 15 
Beginning November 15, 2023, through 
November 15, 2045 
2.17% 
On May 15, 2046 
2.35% 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the 
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn 
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule. 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount 
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the 
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share") 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
-21-
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal 
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices 
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions 
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after 
the adoption of such billing system. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (a) the exchange rate 
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the 
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (b) if 
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the 
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each 
such amount. 
-22-
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
"Affected Person" means a person who as a result of: (a) the involuntary taking of 
land under the Project is affected in any of the following ways: (i) relocation or 
loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources 
or means of livelihood, whether or not the affected person must move to another 
location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and 
protected areas suffers adverse impacts on his or her livelihood; and "Affected 
Person" means any of the Affected Persons. 
2. 
"Annual Work Plan and Budget" means the annual work plan and budget as 
prepared by the Project Implementing Unit or CCAA and approved by the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I.E of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
3. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and 
Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011. 
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
5. 
"CCAA" means the Borrower's civil aviation authority established pursuant to the 
Civil Aviation Law. 
6. 
"CCAA's Legislation" means the Civil Aviation Law and the Borrower's Decret 
No.2015/232 du 25 mai 2015 portant organisation et fonctionnement de l 'Autorite 
Aeronautique du Cameroun .. 
7. 
"CCAA-PIU" means the project implementation unit within CCAA and referred to 
in Section I.B.1 (b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
8. 
"CCAA Tender Board" means the tender board to be established and maintained by 
the Borrower and CCAA in accordance with the provisions of Section I.B.1 ( c) of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
9. 
"Civil Aviation Law" means the Borrower's Loi No. 2013/010 du 24 Juillet 2013 
portant regime de !'aviation civile au Cameroun. 
10. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank 
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014). 
-23-
11. 
"Counterpart Funds" means an amount of approximately US$14.7 million to be 
provided by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of Section V .A.2 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
12. 
"Counterpart Funds Account" means the account to be opened by the Borrower in 
accordance with the provisions of Section V .A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
13. 
"Declaration d'Utilite Publique" means the Borrower's Declaration detailing the 
implementation process for Project-related environmental and social safeguards 
compensation, dated April 1, 2016. 
14. 
"Environmental and Social Impact Assessment" or "ESIA" means an assessment 
to be carried out by the Borrower for the purposes of Parts 2(a), 2(b) and 3{a) of 
the Project in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, to evaluate the Project's 
potential environmental and social risks and impacts in its area of influence, 
including impact on physical cultural resources; examine alternatives and identify 
ways of mitigating and managing adverse environmental and social impact 
throughout Project implementation, as the same may be amended from time to time 
with the agreement of the Bank and such term includes any schedules or annexes 
to the assessment. 
15. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the 
framework disclosed in the Borrower's territory on June 27, 2016 and at the Bank's 
lnfoshop on July 8, 2016, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, outlining 
environmental and social implementation procedures, mitigation measures and 
monitoring procedures for the Project, as said framework may be amended from 
time to time with the Bank's prior written approval, and such term includes any 
schedules or annexes to the framework. 
16. 
"Environmental and Social Management Plan" or "ESMP" means a plan to be 
prepared by the Borrower for the purposes of Parts 2( a), 2(b) and 3( a) of the Project 
proposing appropriate mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures designed 
to mitigate potential adverse environmental impacts, offset them, reduce them to 
acceptable levels or enhance positive impacts, as the same may be amended from 
time to time with the agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any schedules 
or annexes to the plan. 
1 7. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the 
modifications set forth in Section II ofthis Appendix. 
18. 
"ICAO" means the international civil aviation organization. 
-24-
19. 
"MINMAP" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for public procurement and 
any successor thereto. 
20. 
"MINT" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for transport and any successor 
thereto. 
21. 
"MINTP" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for public works and any 
successor thereto. 
22. 
"Operating Costs" means incremental recurrent expenditures incurred on account 
of Project implementation, including: local contractual support staff salaries; travel 
expenditures and other travel-related allowances; equipment rental and 
maintenance; office rental and maintenance; materials and supplies; and utilities, 
media information campaigns and communications' expenses, but excluding the 
salaries of officials and public servants of the Borrower's civil service. 
23. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works 
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by 
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014). 
24. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated 
August 18, 2016 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines 
and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from 
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
25. 
"Project Implementation Manual" and "PIM" means the manual for the Project 
adopted by the Borrower and CCAA, dated December 19, 2014 and March 31, 
2010 respectively, to be updated by the Borrower in accordance with Section I.D 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement to include, an updated financial management 
manual and monitoring and evaluation manual and procurement manual, 
containing detailed arrangements and procedures for: (a) institutional coordination 
and day-to-day execution of the Project; (b) Project budgeting, disbursement and 
financial management; (c) procurement; (d) monitoring, evaluation, reporting and 
communication; and (e) such other administrative, financial, technical and 
organizational arrangements and procedures as shall be required for the Project as 
the same may be further updated from time to time with the prior written consent 
of the Bank. 
26. 
"Project Implementation Unit" means the implementation unit, to be maintained 
within the MINTP in accordance with the provisions of Section I.A.2 of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement and established pursuant to the Borrower's Arrete No. 
025/CABIPM du 13 fevrier 2008 portant creation et organization au sein du 
Ministere des Travaux Publics, d'une Cellule de Coordination et de Suivi de 
-25-
I 'Execution des Projets finances par le Groupe de la Banque Africaine de 
Developpement ou par la Banque Mondia/e. 
27. 
Project Steering Committee" means the steering committee established pursuant 
to the Recipient's arrete No. 121/CAB/PM dated September 14, 2005, whose 
mandate is to be expanded and maintained for the purposes of the Project, in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I.A. I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
28. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" or "RAP" means a plan to be prepared by the Borrower 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank setting forth the specific modalities 
for resettlement and compensation of Affected Persons under the Project, as said 
document may be amended and/or supplemented from time to time with the prior 
written concurrence of the Bank and subject to the initial consultation and 
disclosure requirements carried out on the RAP, and such term includes any 
schedules or annexes to the plan. 
29. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the framework prepared by the 
Borrower in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank and disclosed in the 
Borrower's territory on June 27, 2016, and at the Bank's Infoshop on July 8, 2016, 
outlining the policies and procedures to be implemented in the event that specific 
activities implemented under the Project have potentially negative impacts on the 
livelihoods, assets and land of the affected population, as the said framework may 
be amended and/or supplemented from time to time with the prior written consent 
of the Bank, and such term includes any schedules to such framework 
30. 
"Safeguards Instruments" means, collectively, the ESMF, RPF, ESIA, and any 
Supplemental Safeguards Instrument. 
31. 
"Special Tender Board" means the tender board established pursuant to the 
Borrower's Arrete 00000302/A/MINMAP/du 28 Dec 2015 portant creation d'une 
commission special de passation des marches des projets a financement corifoint 
aupres du Ministere des Travaux Publics whose mandate is to be expanded in 
accordance with Section I.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
32. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section LB of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the proceeds of 
the Loan available to CCAA. 
33. 
"Supplemental Safeguards Instrument" means collectively, any ESMP, RAP, or any 
other instrument required under the terms of the ESMF and RPF to be prepared by 
the Borrower and approved by the Bank for the Project, proposing appropriate 
mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures designed to mitigate potential 
adverse environmental and social impacts, offset them, reduce them to acceptable 
-26-
levels or enhance positive impacts, as the said plan may be amended and/or 
supplemented from time to time with the prior written concurrence of the Bank. 
34. 
"Training" means the training of persons under the Project, including through 
seminars, workshops, knowledge sharing activities and study tours, and covers the 
following costs associated with such activity: travel and subsistence costs for 
training participants, costs associated with securing the services of trainers, rental 
of training facilities, preparation and reproduction of training materials, and other 
costs directly related to training preparation and implementation. 
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows: 
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section 
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below. 
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows: 
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge 
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at 
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee"). 
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the 
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement 
(the "Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from 
a date sixty days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective 
dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan 
Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-
annually in arrears on each Payment Date." 
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and 
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in 
paragraph 2 above. 
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following 
definition of"Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs 
accordingly: 
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the 
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.0l(b)." 
-27-
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the 
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a). 
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 ( originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the 
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows: 
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the 
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including 
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any 
prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of 
a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable 
upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any 
Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower." 
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the 
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting 
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest". 
