OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8686-ZA
Loan Agreement
(Land Bank Financial Intermediation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
And
LAND AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF SOUTH AFRICA
Dated 
C) 
2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8686-ZA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
I CO 
, 2017, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") and LAND AND
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF SOUTH AFRICA ("Borrower"). The
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of ninety-three million Dollars
($93,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
not later than sixty days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread
provided, however, that the interest payable shall in no event be less than zero
percent (0%) per annum; and provided furthermore that, upon a Conversion of all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the
Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance
remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty
-2-
days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as
provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
(a) 
The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year.
(b) 
Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this Section 2.06, if the Borrower
requests pursuant to the terms of Section 2.09 below a Conversion of the
Loan Currency into South African Rand (ZAR), upon the Bank's
execution of such Conversion, the Borrower shall pay interest on the
converted Withdrawn Loan Balance on each January 1, April 1, July I and
October 1. Notices with respect to interest due on such converted amounts
may be given by the Bank to the Borrower via electronic means as
provided in Section 10.01 of the General Conditions; such notices will be
sent to the Borrower at such electronic mail address as the Borrower shall
have designated by notice to the Bank for purposes of receiving such
information.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
-3-
2.09. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.08 (a) of this Agreement and
unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in accordance with the
provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, any amount withdrawn from the Loan
Account shall be converted from Dollars to South African Rand (ZAR) for the
longest maturity available for the Conversion of such amount with effect from the
Conversion Date. Each such Conversion shall be effected on such terms and
conditions as may be separately agreed by the Bank and the Borrower.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that the
Land Bank Legislation (and/or other related legislation) have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely
the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations arising under or entered
into pursuant to this Agreement, or to achieve the objective of the Project.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the
Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that
the Guarantee Agreement has been executed and delivered and all conditions
precedent to its effectiveness (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement), have
been fulfilled.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement.
-4-
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Chief Financial Officer.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Land and Agricultural Development Bank of South Africa
Block D, Eco Glades 2 Office Park
420 Witch-Hazel Avenue
Eco Park
Centurion
Gauteng
Republic of South Africa
Facsimile:
27-86-618-0633
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at 
rm 
.f 
,to(') 
, as of the
day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
.
j\) 
\V
Title: COU 
(t1,
LAND AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
BANK OF SOUTH AFRIC
By
Authorize Representative
Name: A. 
k 
S
Title: 
* 
O- 
/
acting in concurrence with
By
Authorized Re resentative
Name: J
Title: 
OCk\WLOIcj
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to sustainably scale up the Borrower's financing,
specifically to benefit emerging farmers.
The Project consists of the following component:
Part 1. Line of Credit for Agricultural Financing
Provision of a revolving line of credit (Line of Credit), in particular for:
1 .
Refocusing the Borrower's operations on wholesale lending, including, provision
of wholesale finance to Commercial and Emerging Farmers, and leveraging the
network of financial intermediaries (Participating Financial Intermediaries or
PFIs) to improve the ability of eligible Agriculture Enterprises, Commercial and
Emerging farmers, communal property associations and other eligible borrowers
supported under the corporate banking (CB), and commercial development
banking (CDB) business lines.
2. 
Integrating emerging farmers into established value chains, including: (a) scaling
up direct lending to eligible Emerging Famers and Agriculture Enterprises for
integrated value chain finance; and (b) identifying high-potential value chain
projects and securing buy-in from large agricultural corporates or technical
partners.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, technical, engineering,
environmental and social standards and practices, and in accordance with the
Environmental and Social Management System (ESMS), the Environmental and
Social Operations Manual (ESOM), and the Project Operations Manual, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
2. 
The Borrower shall appoint and thereafter maintain at all times during the
implementation of the Project, the Chief Financial Officer and a team consisting
of its staff to facilitate overall coordination and monitoring of progress in the
Project implementation.
3. 
Monitoring and Management of Environmental and Social Safeguards
The Borrower shall, at all times during the implementation of the Project, maintain
a team, acceptable to the Bank, consisting of its staff under the Chief Financial
Officer with responsibility for the monitoring and management of environmental
and social safeguards aspects of the Project, including, without limitation,
consultation, dissemination of information, reporting and communication.
B. 
Sub-loan Agreements
1. 
For purposes of carrying out Part 1.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall enter into
agreements with each Participating Financial Intermediary (PFI) under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank including, inter alia, the
terms and conditions set forth in Section I.C of this Schedule (Sub-loan
Agreement).
2. 
For purposes of carrying out Part 1.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall enter into
agreements with each Emerging Farmer or Agriculture Enterprise under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank including, inter alia, the
terms and conditions set forth in Section I.C of this Schedule (Sub-loan
Agreement).
-8-
3. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each Sub-
loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
4. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Sub-loan Agreement or any of
provision thereof.
C. 
Terms and Conditions of each Sub-loan Agreement
The Borrower shall, amend or include an addendum in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, under the Model Form of the Land Bank Revolving
Facility Agreement with the terms of the Sub-loan Agreement. Such Sub-loan
Agreement shall contain, inter alia, the following provisions:
1 .
The obligations of the Borrower:
(a) 
to promptly disburse a Sub-Loan from the proceeds of the Loan to: (i) the
pertinent PFI for the purposes of providing Sub-financing to an eligible
Commercial or Emerging Farmer, or (ii) Emerging Farmer, or Agriculture
Enterprise, for the purpose of financing the carrying out of the pertinent
Subprojects with due diligence and efficiency;
(b) 
to make available to the pertinent PFI, Emerging Farmer or Agriculture
Enterprise a Sub-loan: (a) denominated and repayable in ZAR; (b) charged
interest on the principal amount withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time at an interest rate that takes into account the Borrower's cost of
funding, operating costs and credit risk margin; and (c) repayable over a
period not exceeding twenty (20) years from the date of the Sub-loan
Agreement, inclusive of a grace period not exceeding three (3) years, all
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank;
(c) 
to ensure that each proposal by a PFI for Sub-financing, or each proposal
by an Emerging Farmer or Agriculture Enterprise for direct financing, as
the case may be, is evaluated and approved, in accordance with the
qualification criteria set forth in the Project Operations Manual;
(d) 
to take or permit to be taken all actions to enable each PFI to comply with
its obligations referred to in Sections I.C.3, I.C.4 and I.C.5 of this
Schedule;
(e) 
to ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines, and the pertinent provisions of this
Agreement;
-9-
(f) 
to ensure that the Sub-loan Agreement includes the Audit Right provisions
in conformity with the Anti-Corruption Guidelines;
(g) 
to ensure compliance with the environmental and social safeguards due
diligence set forth in the ESOM and the Project Operations Manual, and
referred to in Section I.F of this Schedule 2;
(h) 
to provide in each Sub-loan Agreement a requirement for the eligible PFI
to comply with the eligibility criteria set forth in the Project Operations
Manual; and
(i) 
not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to enforce
the Sub-loan Agreement or any provision of the Sub-loan Agreement,
unless previously agreed by the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and those of the
Bank, including the right to:
(a) 
suspend or terminate the right of the pertinent PFI, or Emerging Fanner,
or Agriculture Enterprise to use the proceeds of the Sub-loan, or obtain a
refund of all or any part of the amount of the Sub-loan then withdrawn,
upon the pertinent PFI's, or Emerging Farmer's, Agricultural Enterprise's
failure to perform any of its obligations under the Sub-loan Agreement;
and
(b) 
take remedial actions against any PFI, or any Emerging Farmer, or any
Agriculture Enterprise in case that the pertinent PFI, or Emerging Farmer,
or Agriculture Enterprise shall have failed to comply with any of its
obligations under the Sub-loan Agreement (which actions shall previously
be agreed with the Bank), and the provisions of this Agreement.
3. 
Each Sub-loan Agreement with a PFI shall contain the following obligations of the
pertinent PFI:
(a) 
to share the credit risk with the Borrower on all Sub-financing to
Commercial and Emerging Farmers, including: (i) the obligation to
assume full credit risk for any Sub-financing under CB & CDB; and
(ii) the obligation to assume under REM sub-line: 50% of the loss for the
first 5 percent of any non-performing Sub-financing, 70% of the loss for
5 to 10 percent of any non-performing Sub-financing, and 100% of the
loss for above 10 percent of any non-performing Sub-financing, all in
accordance with the guidelines established by the Borrower from time to
time;
-10-
For the purpose of this provision the term, "non-performing Sub-
financing" means a sub-loan that is not repaid, and which the pertinent PFI
has removed from its balance sheet.
(b) 
to comply with the environmental and social safeguards due diligence set
forth in the ESOM and the Project Operations Manual, and referred to in
Section I.F of this Schedule 2;
(c) 
to incorporate in all Sub-financing Agreements the obligation of the
respective borrowers (Commercial and Emerging Farmers) to comply with
environmental and social safeguards due diligence set forth in the ESOM
and the Project Operations Manual;
(d) 
to service the repayment of the Sub-loan in accordance with an agreed
repayment and under terms and conditions approved by the Bank, and
which terms shall specifically be set forth in the pertinent Sub-loan
Agreement;
(e) 
to ensure that the pertinent Subproject is carried out the in accordance with
the provisions of this Agreement, the Sub-loan Agreement, the ESOM,
and the Project Operations Manual;
(f) 
to comply with the following obligations: (i) to maintain a financial
management system and prepare financial statements in accordance with
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, both in
a manner adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures
related to the Project; and (ii) at the Borrower's and/or the Bank's request,
have such financial statements audited by independent auditors acceptable
to the Borrower and the Bank, and promptly furnish the statements so
audited to the Borrower;
(g) 
to comply with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines in
connection with the Project;
(h) 
not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to enforce
the Sub-loan Agreement or any provision of the Sub-loan Agreement,
unless previously agreed by the Borrower and the Bank; and
(i) 
to take or permit to be taken all actions to enable the Borrower to comply
with the obligations referred to in this Agreement.
4. 
With respect to each Sub-financing, the Borrower shall pursuant to the pertinent
Sub-financing Agreement require each PFI to ensure the following:
-11-
(a) 
each Subproject Proposal is prepared, based on the identified priorities set
forth in the Project Operations Manual;
(b) 
each Subproject Proposal is evaluated and approved, in accordance with
the established criteria set forth in the Project Operations Manual; and
(c) 
each PFI shall make the Sub-financing under a lending agreement (Sub-
financing Agreement) with the respective Commercial and Emerging
Farmer on terms and conditions approved by the Bank, which shall include
the following:
(i) 
The Sub-financing shall be: (A) denominated and repayable in
ZAR, (B) charged interest on the principal amount withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time at the rate, agreed with the
Borrower, and (C) repayable over a period agreed with the
Borrower, in accordance with an agreed repayment schedule.
(ii) 
The pertinent PFI shall obtain rights adequate to protect its
interests and those of the Bank and the Borrower, including the
right to suspend or terminate the right of the Commercial and
Emerging Farmer to use the proceeds of the Sub-financing, or
obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount of the Sub-
financing then withdrawn, upon the Commercial and Emerging
Farmer's failure to perform any of its obligations under the Sub-
financing Agreement.
(iii) 
The pertinent PFI shall require the Commercial and Emerging
Farmer to carry out the pertinent Subproject in a manner
acceptable to the Bank, and operate and maintain said Subproject,
with due diligence and efficiency, and in conformity with
appropriate 
administrative, 
technical, 
financial, 
economic,
environmental and social standards and practices.
(iv) 
The pertinent PFI shall require the Commercial and Emerging
Farmer to take or permit to be taken all actions to enable the
Borrower and the PFI to comply with their respective obligations
referred to in this Agreement, and/or in the Sub-loan Agreement.
(v) 
The pertinent PFI shall obtain the right to take remedial actions
against the respective Commercial and Emerging Farmer in case
it shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations under the
Sub-financing Agreement (which actions shall previously be
agreed with the Bank).
-12-
5. 
The Borrower shall require each PFI to exercise its rights under each Sub-financing
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Bank
and the PFI and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Borrower
and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the pertinent PFI shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive any Sub-financing Agreement or any of its provisions.
D. 
Project Operations Manual
1 .
The Borrower shall carry out the Project, and cause the Project to be carried out,
in accordance with the provisions of a manual satisfactory to the Bank (the Project
Operations Manual). Said manual shall include, inter alia: (i) the ESOM;
(ii) institutional arrangements for the management of the Project; (iii) internal
control systems, financial management and accounting procedures annexes;
(iv) detailed arrangements for the overall carrying out of the Project (including,
inter alia, procurement as well as environmental and social risks management
mechanisms and procedures) to be followed during Project implementation; (v) a
detailed communication plan as well as social accountability tools proposed to be
utilized for Project purposes; and (vi) the guidelines and indicators for Project
monitoring and evaluation.
2. 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree to in writing, the Borrower shall not
abrogate, amend, repeal, suspend, waive or otherwise fail to enforce the Project
Operations Manual or any provision thereof, without the prior written agreement
of the Bank; provided, however, that in case of any conflict between the
arrangements and procedures set out in the Project Operations Manual and the
provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
E. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
F. 
Performance Standards for Private Sector Activities
1 .
The Borrower shall carry out the Project, and cause the Project to be carried out,
in accordance with the ESMS, and the ESOM, in form and substance satisfactory
to the Bank.
2. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive either the ESMS, or the ESOM or any of their respective
provisions.
3. 
Without limitation upon its other reporting obligations under this Agreement, the
Borrower shall collect, compile and submit to the Bank, each calendar year (or at
such other frequency as may be agreed with the Bank), consolidated reports on the
-13-
status of compliance with the ESMS and the ESOM, and the status of the
implementation of said ESMS ("Environmental and Social Performance Report"),
giving details of: (a) measures taken by the respective PFIs and Commercial and
Agricultural Farmers in furtherance of the ESMS and the ESOM, including,
development and operation of their respective environment and social
management systems; (b) conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere
with the smooth implementation of the said measures; and (c) remedial measures
taken or required to be taken to address such conditions.
Section II. 
Proiect Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of six (6) calendar months, and shall be furnished to
the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by
such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45)
days after the end of each six (6) calendar months, interim unaudited financial
reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to
the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one Fiscal Year of the Borrower.
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects", dated May 2006, as revised
-14-
from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant
to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Amount of the 
Percentage of
Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Line of Credit under the 
93,000,000 
100% of the amount
Project 
disbursed 
under 
Sub-
loans and Sub-Financing
TOTAL AMOUNT 
93,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the
Front-end Fee; or
(b) 
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed eighteen million six hundred thousand
($18,600,000) may be made for payments made prior to this date but on
or after April 1, 2016, for Eligible Expenditures under Category (1).
2. 
The Closing Date is April 1, 2022.
-15-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall repay
each Disbursed Amount in semi-annual installments payable on each April 1 and October
1, the first installment to be payable on the 9' Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing
Date for the Disbursed Amount and the last installment to be payable on the 50' Payment
Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount. The following table
sets forth the percentage of the Disbursed Amount payable on each Principal Payment
Date.
Principal Payment Date
(each April and October 1" on the 9' Interest
Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing 
Installment Share
Date for the Disbursed Amount) 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
9' Payment Date 
1.73
10t Payment Date 
1.76
11" Payment Date 
1.78
12th Payment Date 
1.81
13ff Payment Date 
1.84
14d' Payment Date 
1.86
15' Payment Date 
1.89
16" Payment Date 
1.92
17' Payment Date 
1.95
18' Payment Date 
1.98
19"' Payment Date 
2.01
20"' Payment Date 
2.04
21S" Payment Date 
2.07
2 2 nd Payment Date 
2.1
2 3rd Payment Date 
2.13
24" Payment Date 
2.16
25" Payment Date 
2.20
26" Payment Date 
2.23
-16-
Principal Payment Date
(each April and October 1V on the 9 h Interest
Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing 
Installment Share
Date for the Disbursed Amount) 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
27" Payment Date 
2.26
281 Payment Date 
2.30
291 Payment Date 
2.33
30' Payment Date 
2.37
31St Payment Date 
2.40
3 2nd Payment Date 
2.44
3 3rd Payment Date 
2.47
341 Payment Date 
2.51
351 Payment Date 
2.55
3 61 Payment Date 
2.59
371 Payment Date 
2.63
38' Payment Date 
2.66
39' Payment Date 
2.70
401 Payment Date 
2.75
41s" Payment Date 
2.79
4 2nd Payment Date 
2.83
4 3rd Payment Date 
2.87
441 Payment Date 
2.91
45' Payment Date 
2.96
461 Payment Date 
3.00
471 Payment Date 
3.05
481 Payment Date 
3.09
491 Payment Date 
3.14
50" Payment Date 
2.94
100
-17-
2. 
If any one or more installments of principal of the Disbursed Amount would,
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Schedule, be payable after [April 1, 2047],
the Borrower shall also pay on such date the aggregate amount of all such installments.
3. 
The Bank shall notify the Loan Parties of the amortization schedule for each
Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I through 3 of this Schedule, in the
event of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed Amount to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable
on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination
immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the
amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency
Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen
Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency.
-18-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as
of July 1, 2016.
2. 
"Audit Right" means the provisions referred to in Section I.C.1(f) of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
3. 
"Agriculture Enterprise" means an agricultural business that is eligible to receive
a Sub-financing to finance a Subproject.
4. 
"CB" and "CDB" mean the pertinent corporate banking, and commercial
development banking lines of the Borrower's lending business, respectively.
5. 
"Commercial Farmer" means an agricultural corporate that is eligible to receive a
Sub-financing to finance a Subproject.
6. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section III of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
7. 
"Emerging Farmer" means a historically disadvantaged farmer that is eligible to
receive a Sub-financing to finance a Subproject.
8. 
"Environmental and Social Management System" or "ESMS" means the
Borrower's environmental and social management systems acceptable to the Bank,
described in the document titled "Land Bank Environmental and Social
Management System" dated February 23, 2015, and approved by the Borrower's
board on May 26, 2015, as the same may be amended from time to time with the
agreement of the Bank.
9. 
"Environmental and Social Operations Manual" means the Borrower's manual
dated December 13, 2016, said manual, satisfactory to the Bank, and setting forth
environmental and social guidelines to be followed in the implementation of the
Project in monitoring social and environmental standards under Subprojects, as the
same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
10. 
"Environmental and Social Performance Report" means Borrower's report
referred to in Section I.F.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
11. 
"Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year commencing April 1 and ending
March 31 of the following year.
-19-
12. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
13. 
"Guarantor" means the Republic of South Africa, pursuant to the Guarantee
Agreement.
14. 
"Guarantee Agreement" means the guarantee agreement of even date herewith,
between the Bank and the Guarantor, in respect of the Loan, as such guarantee
agreement may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
appendices, schedules and agreements supplemental to the Guarantee Agreement.
15. 
"Land and Agricultural Development Bank of South Africa" or "Land Bank"
means the agricultural development bank established and operating pursuant to the
Land and Agricultural Development Bank Act, 15 of 2002 of the laws of the
Guarantor.
16. 
"Land Bank Legislation" means the Land and Agricultural Development Bank
Act, 15 of 2002 of the laws of the Guarantor, and such term includes any
regulations under said legislation.
17. 
"Line of Credit" means a revolving facility managed and operated by the Borrower
to provide financing out of the proceeds of the Loan to respective PFIs, Emerging
Farmers and Agriculture Enterprises for financing Subprojects.
18. 
"Participating Financial Intermediary" or "PFI" means an approved financial
institution, cooperative or other banking society, which is registered as a financial
institution, cooperative or society pursuant to the laws of the Guarantor, and
approved to participate through the Line of Credit as a financier of Commercial
and Emerging Farmers initiated Subprojects.
19. 
"Model Form of the Land Bank revolving Facility Agreement" means a standard
form agreement adopted by the Borrower as a basis for a lending agreement
between the Borrower and a PFI or other borrower in connection with a Line of
Credit.
20. 
"Project Operations Manual" means the manual, satisfactory to the Bank, and
referred to in Section I.D.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time with agreement of the Bank.
21. 
"REM" means retail emerging markets product of the Borrower's lending
business.
-20-
22. 
"South African Rand" or "ZAR" means the Rand, the lawful currency of the
Guarantor.
23. 
"Sub-financing" means a sub-financing to be made by a PFI to a Commercial and
Emerging Farmer pursuant to a Sub-financing Agreement.
24. 
"Sub-financing Agreement" means any agreement to be executed between a PFI
and a Commercial and Emerging Farmer pursuant to which such Commercial and
Emerging Farmer shall obtain a sub-financing to carry out a Subproject, as such
sub-financing agreement may be amended from time to time, with the agreement
of the Bank and the Borrower, and such term includes all appendices, schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Sub-financing Agreement.
25. 
"Sub-loan Agreement" means any of the agreements to be executed between the
Borrower and a PFI, or an Emerging Farmer, or an Agriculture Enterprise,
pursuant to which such PFI shall obtain a revolving line of credit, or such Emerging
Farmer or such Agriculture Enterprise shall obtain direct financing, in each case
to finance a Subproject, as such sub-loan agreement may be amended from time to
time, with the agreement of the Bank, and such term includes all appendices,
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Sub-loan Agreement.
26. 
"Sub-loan" means a sub-loan to be made by the Borrower to a PFI pursuant to the
Sub-loan Agreement.
27. 
"Subproject" means any agricultural investment initiated by a Commercial and
Emerging Farmer and financed through a PFI pursuant to the financing available
to such PFI under the Project.
28. 
"Subproject Proposal" a proposal made by Commercial and Emerging Farmer to a
PFI for a Sub-financing.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
-21-
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. 
The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
Renumbered 
paragraph 
21 
(originally paragraph 
20) of the Appendix
("Conversion Date") is modified to read as follows:
"21. 
"Conversion Date" means, for a Conversion, the Execution Date or such
other date as the Bank shall determine on which the Conversion enters into effect,
as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines; provided that if the Loan
Agreement provides for automatic Conversions into the Approved Currency upon
withdrawal of amounts of the Loan, the Conversion Date shall be the date of
withdrawal from the Loan Account of the amount in respect of which the
Conversion has been requested."
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any
prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of
a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable
upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any
Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
-22-
8. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
