OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
GEF LOAN NUMBER TF0A5322
Global Environment Facility
Loan Agreement
(Third South West Indian Ocean Fisheries Governance and Shared Growth Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF SEYCHELLES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an implementing entity of the Global Environment Facility
Dated OcD be 
15, 
2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
GEF LOAN NUMBER TF0A5322
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT 
dated Oebw 
I 
, 2017, entered into
between: REPUBLIC OF SEYCHELLES ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("World Bank" or "Bank"), acting
not in its individual capacity but solely in its capacity as an implementing entity of the
Global Environment Facility ("GEF").
WHEREAS: (A) the International Development Association ("Association"), by
extending financial assistance (1) in 2015 to the Republic of Mozambique, the Union of
Comoros, the United Republic of Tanzania and the Indian Ocean Commission ("IOC") and
(2) in 2017 to the Republic of Madagascar and the IOC, has provided support to activities
of the preceding projects under the first and second phases, respectively of the South West
Indian Ocean Fisheries Governance and Shared Growth Program ("Program") which aims
to increase the economic, social, and environmental benefits to South West Indian Ocean
("SWIO") countries from sustainable marine fisheries;
(B) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the
project ("Project", as described in Schedule 1 hereto) under the third phase of the Program,
has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(C) 
the Bank, acting as an Implementing Agency of the GEF, intends to make
available financial assistance to the Borrower under the GEF grant in an amount not
exceeding five million two hundred ninety-two thousand one hundred ten Dollars
($5,292,110) ("GEF Grant"), to assist the Borrower in financing Parts A.1, A.2, B.1, B.2
and B.3 of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the GEF Grant agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and the Bank, acting as Implementing Agency of the
GEF ("GEF Grant Agreement"), as further defined in the Appendix to this Agreement;
(D) 
the Bank intends to make available financial assistance to the Borrower
under a loan in an amount not exceeding five million Dollars ($5,000,000), to assist the
Borrower in financing Parts C.1, C.2, C.3, C.4 and D of the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in the loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the
Bank; and
(E) 
the Borrower intends to issue a bond supported by this GEF Loan and a
Bank Guarantee, in an amount of approximately fifteen million Dollars ($15,000,000)
("SWIOFish 3 Blue Bond"), as further defined in the Appendix to this Agreement, to assist
the Borrower in financing part of the cost of Parts A.3, B.4 and C.5 of the Project.
WHEREAS the Bank has also agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to
extend the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions set forth in this Agreement.
-2-
NOW THEREFORE the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
Article I
Definitions
1.01. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Schedule 4 or Appendix to this
Agreement.
Article II
Loan
2.01. 
The World Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in this Agreement, the amount of five million United States
Dollars ($5,000,000) ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The'Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Loan is funded out of the resources made available to the World Bank as an
implementing entity of the GEF. In accordance with Section 3.02 of Schedule 4 of
this Agreement, the World Bank's payment obligations in connection with this
Agreement are limited to the amount of funds made available to it from the GEF trust
fund, and the Borrower's right to withdraw the Loan proceeds is subject to the
availability of such funds.
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Borrower on the Withdrawn Loan Balance
shall be equal to one-fourth of one percent (1/4 of 1%) per annum.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the repayment
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is USD.
Article III
The Project
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the
Program. To this end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project, except Parts A.3,
B.4 and C.5, through MFTEP, shall cause SeyCCAT to carry out Parts A.3 and
B.4, and shall cause DBS to carry out Part C.5, all in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
-3-
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Article IV
Additional Remedies
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
The SeyCCAT's Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
SeyCCAT to perform any of its obligations under the SeyCCAT
Subsidiary Agreement.
(b) 
The DBS's Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of DBS to
perform any of its obligations under the DBS Subsidiary Agreement.
(c) 
SeyCCAT or DBS shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations
under its respective Subsidiary Agreement.
(d) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this Agreement,
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable
that SeyCCAT or DBS will be able to perform any of its obligations under
its respective Subsidiary Agreement.
(e) 
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of SeyCCAT or DBS or
for the suspension of SeyCCAT or DBS operations.
4.02. 
The Co-financing Deadline for the effectiveness of the SWIOFish 3 Blue Bond is
June 30, 2018.
4.03. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that, any
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to
the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that
the Borrower has established the SWIOFish 3 Blue Bond Account in accordance
with the provisions of Section I.A. 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-4-
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty days (120) days
after the date of this Agreement.
Article VI
Borrower's Representative; Addresses
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative referred to in Section 10.02 of the Schedule 4 to
this Agreement is the Borrower's minister responsible for finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Schedule 4 to this
Agreement is:
Ministry of Finance, Trade and Economic Planning
P.O. Box 313
Liberty House
Victoria Mah6
Republic of Seychelles
Telephone: 
Facsimile:
248 4383120 
248-4325161
6.03. 
The World Bank's Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Schedule 4 to this
Agreement is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI)
-5-
AGREED at Washington D.C, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF SEYCHELLES
By
Au orized Representative
Name: Dr. ouis Rene Peter Larose
Title: Minister of Finance, Trade and Economic Planning
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an implementing entity of the
Global Environment Facility
By
Authorized Representative
Name: Mark R. Lundell
Title: Country Director
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve management of marine areas and
fisheries in Targeted Zones and strengthen fisheries value chains in the Borrower's
territory.
The Project constitutes the third phase of the Program, and consists of the
following parts:
Part A. Expansion of the Borrower's Sustainable-use Marine Protected Areas
1 .
(a) Carrying out of studies to determine the management measures for the
Sustainable-use Marine Protected Areas; (b) preparation of management plans for
Sustainable-use Marine Protected Areas, including outlining of detailed
governance mechanisms for said Sustainable-use Marine Protected Areas;
(c) preparation of regulations to enable the creation and operationalization of said
Sustainable-use Marine Protected Areas; and (d) provision of technical assistance
to implement the re-zoning of Sustainable-use Marine Protected Areas.
2. 
(a) Provision of equipment and training to strengthen relevant government
institutions for enhanced and cost-effective management of the Sustainable-use
Marine Protected Areas; (b) the monitoring, control, and surveillance of the natural
resources and economic activities, including satellite-based imaging, patrols,
operating costs, equipment, and infrastructure; (c) carrying out of awareness
campaigns and capacity-building activities targeted at the main stakeholders,
notably fishers, tourism operators, and training of relevant government
institutions; (d) support towards the promotion of sustainable practices in the
tourism and fisheries sectors; and (e) carrying out of METT-based third-party
evaluation of management effectiveness for the Sustainable-use Marine Protected
Areas.
3. 
Carrying out of a program of activities aimed strengthening the Sustainable-use
Marine Protected Areas Network, through the provision of Blue Grants to
Protected Areas Network Beneficiaries to finance, inter alia, research activities on
fisheries management, development and implementation of management plans,
education and awareness programs, capacity building and training activities,
monitoring, control and surveillance, and promotion of sustainable practices in
marine tourism.
Part B. Improved governance of the Borrower's Priority Fisheries
1 .
Carrying out of (a) stock assessments, socioeconomic impact assessments,
preparation, and regular reviews of priority fisheries management_ plans;
-7-
(b) capacity building activities for the steering committees of the fisheries
management plans and the fishers associations; (c) support to the liaising function
at the Seychelles Fishing Authority to serve artisanal fishers; (d) monitoring,
control, and surveillance activities, including installation of vessel monitoring
system equipment within the Fisheries Monitoring Center and on coastal patrol
boats; (e) support to the certification of the semi-industrial longline fishery; and
(f) the preparation and implementation of a fleet capacity management and
licensing framework.
2. 
Strengthening the provision of relevant and reliable information on the status of
the marine environment and fisheries and their respective contribution to the
Borrower's economy through, inter alia, (a) finalization of the fisheries
information system, including fish size data capture; (b) provision of relevant
training for government statisticians; (c) development of a new fisheries
information management system; (d) provision of technical assistance and
capacity building support to the Fisheries Economic Intelligence Unit; and
(e) design and development of a satellite economic account for fisheries by the
National Bureau of Statistics.
3. 
(a) Drafting of a fisheries sector policy note; (b) development of the fisheries sector
policy and strategy and its midterm review; (c) carrying out of an assessment of
the current government financial support to the fisheries sector, including sector
subsidies; (d) support towards to the updating of the sector legal framework,
including laws, regulations and policies; and (e) provision of capacity building and
ad hoc technical assistance to the relevant public entities, including MAF and the
Seychelles Fishing Authority.
4. 
Carrying out of a program of activities aimed at improving governance of priority
fisheries, through the provision of Blue Grants to Priority Fisheries Beneficiaries
to finance, inter alia, research activities on fisheries management, development
and implementation of management plans, education and awareness programs,
capacity building and training activities, monitoring, control and surveillance,
research and development for innovation in post-harvesting and marketing.
-8-
Part C. Sustainable Development of the Borrower's Blue Economy
1. 
Carrying out of a program of activities to expand the seafood value chains and
promote other subsector synergies, notably, through, inter alia, (a) identification
of value chain development opportunities and provision of targeted capacity
building to fishers and operators; (b) support to the relevant government
institutions and the Fishermen and Boat Owners Association to design, develop
and operationalize the Providence Fish Center; (c) installation of a small ice plant
and bait storage on Praslin; (d) promotion of the nascent labelling scheme for
sustainable artisanal fisheries, linking the fisheries and tourism value chains; and
(e) enhanced inclusion of the sport and recreational fisheries in the fisheries
management effort, through education and awareness programs and marketing to
promote tagging and catch-and-release and the development of the related
electronic logbook application.
2. 
Creating of an enabling environment for sustainable, local, small-scale
investments in the aquaculture sector through, inter alia, (a) carrying out of
environmental and social impact assessments for local investments in inshore and
land-based aquaculture, (b) capacity-building of select relevant investors and the
Seychelles Fishing Authority, and (c) development of training courses and long-
term human capital development plans.
3. 
(a) Carrying out of a program of activities to strengthen the performance of
fisheries loan schemes and their alignment with the blue economy objectives;
(b) elaboration of standardized proposal assessment methodologies and related
training for the Blue Investment Fund; (c) carrying out of an assessment of the
maximum carrying capacity for investments in the fishing post-harvesting and
service sectors; (d) provision of technical assistance to facilitate a sustainable,
economically sound port development process; (e) carrying out of studies
necessary to the development of different areas of the blue economy, notably,
feasibility of vessel refitting, decommissioning, and buyback, policy and
management for new and emerging fisheries; and (f) support towards the
development of policies and standards to improve recruitment and retention of
local crew and skippers.
4. 
Strengthening of the sanitary and phytosanitary monitoring capacity in the
Borrower's territory through the setting up of an enhanced monitoring program,
and provision of related training, equipment and technical assistance.
5. 
Provision of Blue Loans to Blue Investment Fund Beneficiaries to finance private
and public investments aimed at facilitating the implementation of the Mah
Plateau fisheries management plan and the transition from open-access to better
controlled fisheries, including, inter alia, refitting of tourism vessels, refitting
fishing vessels, land-based production of high value niche products, fish
processing and value addition, sector services and logistics support.
-9-
6. 
Support to the Borrower's capacity to reduce the financing cost of the SWIOFish
3 Blue Bond issuance through, inter alia, (i) capitalization of the SWIOFish 3 Blue
Bond Account to assist in the financing, directly or indirectly, of a percentage of
the SWIOFish 3 Blue Bond-related coupons payments and/or purchase of a
financial asset to securitize repayment of a percentage of the SWIOFish 3 Blue
Bond principle; and (ii) technical assistance and Operating Costs associated with
the SWIOFish 3 Blue Bond issuance.
Part D. Project coordination, management and monitoring, preparation of financial audits
periodic evaluations through, inter alia, advisory services, purchase of equipment,
provision of Training, Operating Costs and monitoring and evaluation activities.
-10-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1 
Project Steering Committee
(a) 
The Borrower shall maintain, at all times during the implementation of the
Project, a Project steering committee with a mandate, composition and
resources satisfactory to the Bank ("Project Steering Committee").
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section I.A.1
of this Schedule 2, the Project Steering Committee shall be chaired by a
representative of MFTEP, the assistant to the Project shall serve as the
secretary and it shall further be comprised of, inter alia, representatives of
the Recipient's ministries responsible for agriculture and fisheries,
environment, energy and climate change, and foreign affairs; the
Seychelles Fishing Authority; the Seychelles National Parks Authority;
and the Seychelles Port Authority.
(c) 
The Project Steering Committee shall meet at least semi-annually and shall
be responsible for Project oversight, including inter alia: (i) reviewing the
proposed Annual Work Plans and Budgets for the Project, (ii) providing
overall Project oversight and strategic guidance, (iii) facilitating adequate
coordination with relevant stakeholders and alignment with sector
strategies, and (iv) identifying necessary Project adjustments based on
monitoring and evaluation reports.
2. 
Project Implementation Unit
(a) 
For purposes of the Project, except Parts A.3, B.4, C.5 and C.6, the
Borrower shall maintain at all times until the completion of the Project,
the Project Implementation Unit within the MFTEP with terms of
reference and resources satisfactory to the Bank ("Project Implementation
Unit").
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section I.A.2
of this Schedule 2, the Project Implementation Unit shall at all times:
(i) 
be comprised of qualified and experienced personnel in adequate
numbers, and to this end, inter alia, no later than six (6) months
-11-
after the Effective Date, recruit an environmental and social
specialist and a monitoring and evaluations specialist, all with
qualifications and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; -
(ii) 
be responsible for the day-to-day Project coordination and
implementation, including: (A) preparing each proposed Annual
Work Plan and Budget for the Project, updating the Procurement
Plan and consolidating the Project reports for the Project Steering
Committee; (B) carrying out all Project procurement activities
including 
developing 
and maintaining 
a 
comprehensive
procurement filing system for the Project, except Parts A.3, B.4
and C.5 of the Project; and (C) monitoring and evaluating the
Project.
3. 
SWIOFish 3 Blue Bond Account
(a) 
For purposes of Part C.6(i) of the Project, the Borrower shall establish and
maintain an account within the Central Bank of Seychelles to be managed
by the MFTEP, which shall be utilized and/or invested in accordance with
the SWIOFish 3 Blue Bond Account Manual.
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section I.A.2
of this Schedule 2, no later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each
semester, the Borrower shall provide the World Bank with semi-annual
reports of the SWIOFish 3 Blue Bond Account, and if and where
applicable, detailing the management performance, capital value, asset
allocation, investment income and coupon payment expenditures of said
SWIOFish 3 Blue Bond Account.
(c) 
In case of any conflict between the terms of this Agreement and the
SWIOFish 3 Blue Bond Account Manual, the terms of this Agreement
shall prevail.
B. 
SeyCCAT Subsidiary Agreement
In order to achieve the objectives of Parts A.3 and B.4 of the Project, no later than
one (1) month after the execution of the Bank Guarantee, the Borrower shall make
part of the proceeds of the SWIOFish 3 Blue Bond available to SeyCCAT under a
subsidiary agreement between the Borrower and SeyCCAT, under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank, as further detailed in the Bank Guarantee
("SeyCCAT Subsidiary Agreement").
-12-
C. 
DBS Subsidiary Agreement
In order to achieve the objectives of Part C.5 of the Project, no later than one (1)
month after the execution of the Bank Guarantee, the Borrower shall make part of
the proceeds of the SWIOFish 3 Blue Bond available to DBS under a subsidiary
agreement between the Borrower and DBS, under terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank, as further detailed in the Bank Guarantee ("DBS Subsidiary
Agreement").
D. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
E. 
Project Operations Manual
1. 
The Borrower shall prepare or cause to be prepared, in accordance with terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank, a Project operations manual, containing:
(a) 
detailed arrangements and procedures for: (i) institutional coordination
and day-to-day execution of the Project; (ii) Project budgeting,
disbursement 
and 
financial 
management; 
(iii) 
procurement;
(iv) monitoring, 
evaluation, 
reporting 
and 
communication;
(v) environmental and safeguard management;
(b) 
the SWIOFish 3 Blue Bond Account Manual; and
(c) 
such other administrative, financial, technical and organizational
arrangements and procedures as shall be required for the Project.
2. 
The Borrower shall afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to review and
approve such manual, and shall thereafter adopt such manual as shall have been
approved by the Bank ("Project Operations Manual").
3. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project Operations
Manual and shall not amend, abrogate, waive, or permit to be amended, abrogated,
or waived, the aforementioned, or any provision thereof, without the prior written
consent of the Bank.
4. 
In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the Project Operations
Manual and those of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall
prevail.
-13-
F. 
Annual Work Plans and Budgets
1. 
Not later than December 31 in each calendar year (or one (1) month after the
Effective Date for the first year of Project implementation), the Borrower shall
prepare or cause to be prepared a draft annual work plan and budget for the Project
(including Training and Operating Costs) for the subsequent calendar year of
Project implementation, of such scope and detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested.
2. 
The Borrower shall afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to review such draft
annual work plan and budget, and thereafter shall carry out (or cause to be carried
out) such annual work plan and budget during such subsequent calendar year as
shall have been approved by the Bank ("Annual Work Plan and Budget"). Only
those activities that are included in an Annual Work Plan and Budget shall be
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.
3. 
Any Training proposed to be included in an Annual Work Plan and Budget, shall
include, inter alia: (a) particulars of the Training envisaged; (b) the criteria for
selection of the personnel to be trained, and such personnel if known; (c) the
selection method of the institution or individuals conducting such Training; (d) the
institution conducting such Training if identified; (e) the purpose and justification
for such Training; (f) the location and duration of the proposed training; and
(g) the estimate of the cost of such Training.
4. 
Annual Work Plans and Budgets may be revised as needed during Project
implementation subject to the Bank's prior written approval.
G. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall implement (or cause SeyCCAT and DBS to implement) the
Project in accordance with the relevant Safeguards Instruments, and shall, to that
end:
(a) 
if any activity under the Project requires the adoption of a Supplemental
Safeguard Instrument:
(i) 
prepare or cause to be prepared: (A) such Supplemental Safeguard
Instrument in accordance with the applicable ESMF or PF;
(B) furnish such Supplemental Safeguard Instrument.to the Bank
for review and approval; 
and (C) thereafter adopt such
Supplemental Safeguard Instrument prior to implementation of
the activity; and
-14-
(ii) 
thereafter take such measures as shall be necessary or appropriate
to ensure full compliance with the requirements of such
Supplemental Safeguard Instrument; and
(b) 
if any activity under the Project would involve Affected Persons, ensure
that no displacement (including restriction of access to legally designated
parks and protected areas) shall occur before compensation measures
under the applicable LRP, including, in the case of displacement, full
payment to Affected Persons of compensation and of other assistance
required for relocation, have been taken.
2. 
Without limitation upon its other reporting obligations under this Agreement, the
Borrower shall, for each applicable Safeguard Instrument, regularly collect,
compile and furnish, cause to be regularly collected, compiled and furnished to the
Bank reports in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, on the status of
compliance with each applicable Safeguard Instrument, as part of the Project
Reports, giving details of:
(a) 
measures taken in furtherance of such Safeguard Instrument;
(b) 
conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the smooth
implementation of such Safeguard Instrument; and
(c) 
remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such
conditions.
3. 
In the event that any provision of the Safeguards Instruments shall conflict with
any provision under this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that:
(a) 
all terms of reference for any technical assistance and studies to be carried
out under the Project are consistent with the Bank's environmental and
social safeguard policies; and
(b) 
in any Project activity that may support the drafting of regulatory
instruments for the purpose of the Project, due attention will be given to
said policies.
Section II. 
Project Monitorin2, Reportine and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports; Completion Report
1. 
The Borrower shall (and shall cause SeyCCAT or DBS, as the case may be, to)
monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.06 of the Schedule 4 to this Agreement
-15-
and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report shall
cover the period of one calendar semester and shall be furnished to the Bank not
later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare the Completion Report in accordance with the
provisions of Section 2.06 of the Schedule 4 to this Agreement. The Completion
Report shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six months after the
Closing Date.
B. 
Financial Management; Financial Reports; Audits
I. 
The Borrower shall ensure that a financial management system is maintained in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
ensure that interim unaudited financial reports for the Project are prepared and
furnished to the World Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of
each calendar quarter, covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to
the World Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements for the Project audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07(b) of the Schedule 4 to this
Agreement. Each such audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of
one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such
period shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six (6) months after the
end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
-16-
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1 .
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan:
Procurement Method
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding
(b) 
Shopping
(c) 
Direct Contracting
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following
methods, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan:
Procurement Method
(a) 
Quality-based Selection
(b) 
Selection under a Fixed Budget
(c) 
Least-Cost Selection
(d) 
Selection Based on the Consultants' Qualifications
(e) 
Selection of Individual Consultants
(f) 
Single-source Selection of consulting firms
(g) 
Single-source procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants
-17-
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
I. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article III of the Schedule 4 to this Agreement, this Section and such
additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "Disbursement Guidelines for Investment Project Financing" dated
February 2017, as revised from time to time by the World Bank and as made
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocations of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:
Category 
Amount of the 
Percentage of Expenditures to be
GEF Loan 
Financed
Allocated 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(expressed in
USD)
(1) Capitalization of 
5,000,000 
100%
the SWIOFish 3 Blue
Bond Account under
Part C.6(i) of the
Project
(2) Consulting 
0 
100%
services and Operating
Costs for Part C.6(ii)
of the Project
TOTAL AMOUNT 
5,000,000
-18-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 may be made for
payments made prior to this date but on or after July 1, 2017, for Eligible
Expenditures under Category (2).
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2023.
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
A. 
In the event that the proceeds of the Loan are used to purchase security assets as
contemplated in Part C.6(i), the Borrower shall ensure that the ratings and terms
of such security assets are acceptable to the World Bank.
-19-
SCHEDULE 3
Repayment Schedule
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Loan repayable
(expressed as a percentage)
On each 
and
commencing 
to and including 
[1]%
commencing 
to and including 
[2]%
-20-
SCHEDULE 4
STANDARD PROVISIONS
ARTICLE I
Introductory Provisions
Section 1.01. 
Definitions. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, wherever
capitalized terms are used in this Agreement, they have the meanings ascribed to them in
the Appendix to this Schedule 4 or in the Schedule 5.
Section 1.02. 
References; Headings. References in this Schedule 4 to Articles, Sections
and Appendix are to the Articles, Sections and Appendix of this Schedule 4. Their headings
are inserted in these Schedule 4 for reference only and shall not be taken into consideration
in interpreting this Schedule 4.
ARTICLE II
Project Execution
Section 2.01. 
Project Execution Generally
(a) 
The Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity shall carry out their
respective parts of the Project: (i) with due diligence and efficiency; (ii) in conformity with
appropriate administrative, technical, financial, economic, environmental and social
standards and practices; and (iii) in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
(b) 
The Guarantor shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with the execution of the Project or the performance of the obligations
of the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity under the Legal Agreement to which
it is a party.
(c) 
The Borrower shall: (i) cause the Project Implementing Entity to perform
all of the obligations of the Project Implementing Entity set forth in the Project Agreement
in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement; and (ii) not take or permit to
be taken any action that would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(d) 
The Borrower shall provide or cause to be provided, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources: (i) required for the Project; and
(ii) necessary or appropriate to enable the Project Implementing Entity to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 2.02. 
Insurance. The Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity shall make
adequate provision for the insurance of any goods required for the Respective Parts of the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, against hazards incident to the
-21-
acquisition, transportation and delivery of the goods to the place of their use or installation.
Any indemnity for such insurance shall be payable in a freely usable currency to replace
or repair such goods.
Section 2.03. 
Land Acquisition. The Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity shall
take (or cause to be taken) all action to acquire as and when needed all land and rights in
respect of land that are required to carry out their Respective Parts of the Project and shall
promptly furnish to the World Bank, upon its request, evidence satisfactory to the World
Bank that such land and rights in respect of the land are available for the purposes of the
Project.
Section 2.04. 
Use of Goods, Works and Services; Maintenance of Facilities. The
Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity shall ensure that:
(a) 
except as the World Bank shall otherwise agree, all goods, works and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan are used exclusively for the purposes of
the Project; and
(b) 
all facilities relevant to their Respective Parts of the Project are at all times
properly operated and maintained and all necessary repairs and renewals of such facilities
are made promptly as needed.
Section 2.05. 
Documents; Records. The Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity
shall ensure that:
(a) 
all documents related to their Respective Parts of the Project are promptly
furnished to the World Bank upon its request, in such detail as the World Bank shall
reasonably request;
(b) 
records are maintained adequate to record the progress of their Respective
Parts of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify
the goods, works and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and to disclose their
use in the Project, and such records are furnished to the World Bank promptly upon its
request;
(c) 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing expenditures under their Respective Parts of the Project are retained until at
least the later of: (i) one year after the World Bank has received the audited Financial
Statements covering the period during which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account
was made; and (ii) two years after the Closing Date; and
(d) 
the representatives of the World Bank are able to examine all records
referred to above in paragraphs (b) and (c), and are provided all such information
concerning such records as they may from time to time reasonably request.
-22-
Section 2.06. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation. The Borrower shall:
(a) 
maintain or cause to be maintained policies and procedures adequate to
enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators
acceptable to the World Bank, the progress of the Project and the achievement of its
objectives;
(b) 
(i) prepare and deliver, or cause to be prepared and delivered, to the World
Bank periodic project reports ("Project Reports"), in form and substance satisfactory to the
World Bank, integrating the results of such monitoring and evaluation activities and setting
out measures recommended by the Borrower to ensure the continued efficient and effective
execution of the Project, and to achieve the Project's objectives; each Project Report to
cover the period specified in the Loan Agreement and to be furnished to the World Bank
not later than the date specified for that purpose in the Loan Agreement; and (ii) afford the
World Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower and the Project
Implementing Entity on such report, and thereafter implement such recommended
measures, taking into account the World Bank's views on the matter; and
(c) 
prepare and deliver, or cause to be prepared and delivered, to the World
Bank, not later than the date specified for that purpose in this Agreement, of one or more
completion reports ("Completion Reports"): (i) of such scope and in such detail as the
World Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the Project, the performance by
the Borrower, the Guarantor, the Project Implementing Entity and the World Bank of their
respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Loan; and (ii) including a plan designed to ensure the sustainability of the Project's
achievements.
Section 2.07. 
Financial Management; Financial Statements; Audits. The Borrower
shall:
(a) 
maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system and
prepare financial statements ("Financial Statements") in accordance with consistently
applied accounting standards acceptable to the World Bank, both in a manner adequate to
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project; and
(b) 
(i) have the Financial Statements periodically audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the World Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing
standards acceptable to the World Bank; (ii) furnish or cause to be furnished to the World
Bank the Financial Statements, as so audited, not later than the date specified in the Legal
Agreements for that purpose, together with such other information concerning the audited
Financial Statements and such auditors, as the World Bank may from time to time
reasonably request; and (iii) make the audited Financial Statements, or cause the audited
Financial Statements to be made, publicly available in a timely fashion and in a manner
acceptable to the World Bank.
-23-
Section 2.08. 
Cooperation and Consultation. The Borrower, the Guarantor and the
World Bank shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Loan and the objectives
of the Project will be accomplished, and to this end, throughout the implementation of the
Project and for a period of ten years thereafter:
(a) 
from time to time, at the request of either of them, exchange views on the
Project, the Loan and the performance of their respective obligations under the Legal
Agreements, and furnish to the other party all such information related to such matters as
it shall reasonably request; and
(b) 
promptly inform the other party of any condition which interferes with, or
threatens to interfere with, such matters.
Section 2.09. 
Visits
(a) 
Throughout the implementation of the Project and for a period of ten years
thereafter: (i) the Member Country shall enable the representatives of the World Bank to
visit any part of its territory for purposes related to the Loan; and (ii) the Borrower, which
is not the Member Country, shall take all measures required on its part to enable the World
Bank to visit any part of the Member Country's territory for purposes related to the Loan.
(b) 
The Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity shall enable the World
Bank's representatives: (i) to visit any facilities and sites included in their Respective Parts
of the Project; and (ii) to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan for
their Respective Parts of the Project, and any plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property, equipment, records and documents relevant to the performance of their
obligations under the Legal Agreements.
Section 2.10. 
Disputed Area
In the event that the Project is in an area which is or becomes disputed, neither the
World Bank's financing of the Project, nor any designation of or reference to such area in
the Legal Agreements, is intended to constitute ajudgment on the part of the World Bank
as to the legal or other status of such area or to prejudice the determination of any claims
with respect to such area.
ARTICLE III
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
Section 3.01. 
Loan Account; Withdrawals Generally; Currency of Withdrawals.
(a) 
The World Bank shall credit the amount of the Loan in the currency of
denomination of the Loan to the Loan Account. The Borrower may from time to time
request withdrawals of amounts of the Loan from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement.
-24-
(b) 
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan from the Loan Account shall be
made in the currency of denomination of the Loan. The World Bank may, at the request
and acting as an agent of the Borrower, and on such terms and conditions as the World
Bank shall determine, purchase with such currency withdrawn from the Loan Account such
other currencies as the Borrower shall reasonably request to meet payments for Eligible
Expenditures. Whenever it shall be necessary for the purpose of this Agreement to
determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such value shall be as reasonably
determined by the World Bank.
Section 3.02. Funding Shortfall. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3.01, no
withdrawals shall be made if, as a result of such withdrawal, the total amount of the Loan
withdrawn from the Loan Account would exceed the amount available to the World Bank
from trust fund resources provided to it by other financiers for the purposes of the Loan.
The Borrower shall bear the risk of any such funding shortfall, and the World Bank shall
not have any liability whatsoever to the Borrower or to any third parties in respect of any
expenditures or liabilities incurred in connection with this Agreement which exceed the
amount made available to the World Bank for the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.03. 
Special Commitment by the World Bank. At the Borrower's request and on
such terms and conditions as the Borrower and the World Bank shall agree, the World Bank
may enter into special commitments in writing to pay amounts for Eligible Expenditures
notwithstanding any subsequent suspension or cancellation of an amount of the Loan
("Special Commitment").
Section 3.04. 
Applications; Supporting Evidence.
(a) 
When the Borrower wishes to request a withdrawal from the Loan Account
or to request the World Bank to enter into a Special Commitment, the Borrower shall
deliver to the World Bank a written application for the purpose in such form and substance
as the World Bank shall reasonably request ("Application").
(b) 
The Borrower shall furnish to the World Bank: (i) evidence satisfactory to
the World Bank of the authority of the person or persons authorized to sign each
Application and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person; and (ii) such
documents and other evidence in support of each Application as the World Bank shall
specify, whether before or after the World Bank has permitted any withdrawal requested
in the Application ("Supporting Evidence").
(c) 
Each Application for an amount of the Loan, and its Supporting Evidence,
must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy the World Bank that the Borrower is
entitled to withdraw such amount from the Loan Account, and that such amount will be
used only for the purposes specified in this Agreement. Applications shall be made
promptly in relation to Eligible Expenditures.
-25-
(d) 
The World Bank shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account only to, or on the order of, the Borrower.
Section 3.05. 
Designated Accounts
(a) 
The Borrower may open and maintain one or more designated accounts
into which the World Bank may, at the request of the Borrower, deposit amounts
withdrawn from the Loan Account as advances for purposes of the Project ("Designated
Accounts"). All Designated Accounts shall be opened in a financial institution acceptable
to the World Bank, and on terms and conditions acceptable to the World Bank.
(b) 
Deposits into, and payments out of, any Designated Account shall be made
in accordance with this Agreement and such additional instructions as the World Bank may
specify from time to time by notice to the Borrower. The World Bank may, in accordance
with this Agreement and such instructions, cease making deposits into any such account
upon notice to the Borrower. In such case, the World Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
procedures to be used for subsequent withdrawals from the Loan Account.
Section 3.06. 
Eligible Expenditures. The Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity
shall ensure that the proceeds of the Loan are used exclusively to finance expenditures
which, except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, satisfy the following requirements
("Eligible Expenditures"):
(a) 
the payment is for the reasonable cost of goods, works or services required
for the Project, to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and procured, all in
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement;
(b) 
the payment is not prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
(c) 
the payment: (i) is made on or after the date specified in this Agreement
for that purpose; and (ii) except as the World Bank may otherwise agree, is for expenditures
incurred prior to the Closing Date.
Section 3.07. 
Financing Taxes
(a) 
This Agreement may specify that the proceeds of the Loan may not be
withdrawn to pay for Taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Member Country on or in
respect of Eligible Expenditures, or on their importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply. In such case, if the amount of any such Taxes decreases or increases, the World
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage of such Eligible Expenditures
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan specified in this Agreement, as required to
ensure consistency with such limitation on withdrawals.
-26-
(b) 
In the absence of such specification, the use of any proceeds of the Loan
to pay for such Taxes is nevertheless subject to the World Bank's policy of requiring
economy and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its loans. To that end, if the World
Bank at any time determines that the amount of any such Tax is excessive, or that such Tax
is discriminatory or otherwise unreasonable, the World Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower, adjust the percentage of such Eligible Expenditures to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan specified in this Agreement, as required to ensure consistency with
such policy of the World Bank.
Section 3.08. 
Reallocation. If, in the World Bank's opinion, an amount of the Loan
allocated to a category of Eligible Expenditures under the Loan Agreement will be
insufficient to finance the expenditures under such category, the World Bank may, by
notice to the Borrower:
(a) 
reallocate to such category any other amount of the Loan which in the
World Bank's opinion is not needed for other Eligible Expenditures, to the extent required
to meet the estimated shortfall; and
(b) 
if such reallocation will not fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
percentage of Eligible Expenditures to be financed under such category, in order that
further withdrawals for such expenditures may continue until all such expenditures have
been made.
ARTICLE IV
Loan Terms
Section 4.01. 
Service Charge. The Borrower shall pay the World Bank a service charge
on the Withdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in this Agreement ("Service Charge").
The Service Charge shall accrue from the respective dates on which amounts of the Loan
are withdrawn and shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
Service Charges shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
Section 4.02. 
Repayment of the Loan. The Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan
Balance to the World Bank in installments as provided in this Agreement.
Section 4.03. 
Prepayment. The Borrower may repay the World Bank in advance of
maturity all or any part of the principal amount of one or more maturities of the Loan
specified by the Borrower.
Section 4.04. 
Partial Payment. If the World Bank at any time receives less than the full
amount of any Loan Payment then due, it shall have the right to allocate and apply the
amount so received in any manner and for such purposes under the Loan Agreement as it
determines in its sole discretion.
-27-
Section 4.05. 
Place of Payment. All Loan Payments shall be paid at such places as the
World Bank shall reasonably request.
Section 4.06. 
Currency of Payment.
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay all Loan Payments in the Currency specified in
this Agreement ("Payment Currency").
(b) 
If the Borrower shall so request, the World Bank shall, acting as agent of
the Borrower, and on such terms and conditions as the World Bank shall determine,
purchase the Payment Currency for the purpose of paying a Loan Payment upon timely
payment by the Borrower of sufficient funds for that purpose in a currency or currencies
acceptable to the World Bank; provided, however, that the Loan Payment shall be deemed
to have been paid only when and to the extent that the World Bank has received such
payment in the Payment Currency.
Section 4.07. 
Valuation of Currencies. Whenever it becomes necessary for the purposes
of this Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such value
shall be as reasonably determined by the World Bank.
Section 4.08. 
Manner ofPayment
(a) 
Any Loan Payment required to be paid to the World Bank in the currency
of any country shall be paid in such manner, and in currency acquired in such manner, as
shall be permitted under the laws of such country for the purpose of making such payment
and effecting the deposit of such currency to the account of the World Bank with a
depository of the World Bank authorized to accept deposits in such currency.
(b) 
All Loan Payments shall be paid without restrictions of any kind imposed
by, or in the territory of, the Member Country and without deduction for, and free from,
any Taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Member Country.
(c) 
This Agreement shall be free from any Taxes levied by, or in the territory
of the Member Country, or in connection with their execution, delivery or registration.
ARTICLE V
Financial and Economic Data; Negative Pledge
Section 5.01. 
Financial and Economic Data. The Member Country shall furnish to the
World Bank all such information as the World Bank shall reasonably request with respect
to financial and economic conditions in its territory, including its balance of payments and
its External Debt as well as that of its political or administrative subdivisions and of any
entity owned or controlled by, or operating for the account or benefit of, the Member
Country or any such subdivision, and of any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Member Country.
-28-
Section 5.02. 
Negative Pledge.
(a) 
If any Lien is created on any Public Assets as security for any External
Debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of the creditor of such External
Debt in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange held under the
control or for the benefit of the Member Country, such Lien shall, unless the World Bank
shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the World Bank, equally and ratably
secure all Loan Payments, and the Member Country, in creating or permitting the creation
of such Lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided, however, that if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect to any
Lien created on assets of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, the Member
Country shall promptly and at no cost to the World Bank secure all Loan Payments by an
equivalent Lien on other Public Assets satisfactory to the World Bank.
(b) 
The Borrower which is not the Member Country undertakes that, except
as the World Bank shall otherwise agree:
(i) 
if it creates any Lien on any of its assets as security for any debt,
such Lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of all Loan Payments and in the
creation of any such Lien express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
World Bank; and
(ii) 
if any statutory Lien is created on any of its assets as security for
any debt, it shall grant at no cost to the World Bank, an equivalent Lien satisfactory to the
World Bank to secure the payment of all Loan Payments.
(c) 
The provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall not apply to:
(i) any Lien created on property, at the time of purchase of such property, solely as security
for the payment of the purchase price of such property or as security for the payment of
debt incurred for the purpose of financing the purchase of such property; or (ii) any Lien
arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not
more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
ARTICLE VI
Cancellation; Suspension; Acceleration
Section 6.01. 
Cancellation by the Borrower. The Borrower may, by notice to the World
Bank, cancel any Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, except that the Borrower may not cancel
any such amount that is subject to a Special Commitment.
Section 6.02. 
Suspension by the World Bank. The World Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower, suspend the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
if any of the following events occurs and is continuing. Such suspension shall continue
until the World Bank has notified the Borrower that such right to make withdrawals has
been restored.
-29-
(a) 
Payment Failure
(i) 
The Borrower has failed to make payment (notwithstanding the
fact that such payment may have been made by the Guarantor or a third party) of principal
or interest or any other amount due to IBRD or IDA: (A) under the Loan Agreement; or
(B) under any other agreement between the Borrower and IBRD; or (C) under any
agreement between the Borrower and IDA; or (D) in consequence of any guarantee
extended or other financial obligation of any kind assumed by the IBRD or IDA to any
third party with the agreement of the Borrower.
(ii) 
The Guarantor has failed to make payment of principal or interest
or any other amount due to the IBRD or IDA: (A) under the Guarantee Agreement; or (B)
under any other agreement between the Guarantor and IBRD; or (C) under any agreement
between the Guarantor and IDA; or (D) in consequence of any guarantee extended or other
financial obligation of any kind assumed by IBRD or IDA to any third party with the
agreement of the Guarantor.
(b) 
Performance Failure
(i) 
The Borrower or the Guarantor has failed to perform any other
obligation under the Legal Agreement to which it is a party or under any Derivatives
Agreement.
(ii) 
The Project Implementing Entity has failed to perform any
obligation under the Project Agreement.
(c) 
Interference. If the Loan has been made to a Borrower which is not the
Member Country, the Member Country has: (i) taken or permitted to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with the execution of the Project or the performance by
the Borrower of its obligations under this Agreement; or (ii) failed to afford a reasonable
opportunity for representatives of the World Bank to visit any part of its territory for
purposes related to the Loan or the Project.
(d) 
Fraud and Corruption. At any time, the World Bank determines that any
representative of the Borrower or the Guarantor or the Project Implementing Entity (or any
other recipient of any of the proceeds of the Loan) has engaged in corrupt, fraudulent,
coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of the Loan,
without the Borrower or the Guarantor or the Project Implementing Entity (or any other
such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the World Bank
to address such practices when they occur.
(e) 
Cross Suspension. IBRD or IDA has suspended in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower or the Guarantor to make withdrawals under any agreement with
IBRD or with IDA because of a failure by the Borrower or Guarantor to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement or any other agreement with IBRD or IDA.
-30-
(f) 
Event Prior to Effectiveness. The World Bank has determined after the
Effective Date that prior to such date but after the date of this Agreement, an event has
occurred that would have entitled the World Bank to suspend the Borrower's right to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account if this Agreement had been effective on the date such
event occurred.
(g) 
Extraordinary Situation. As a result of events which have occurred after
the date of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation has arisen which makes it improbable
that the Project can be carried out or that the Borrower, the Guarantor, or the Project
Implementing Entity will be able to perform its obligations under the Legal Agreement to
which it is a party.
(h) 
Co-financing. Any of the following events occurs with respect to any
financing specified in the Loan Agreement to be provided for the Project ("Co-financing")
by a financier (other than IBRD or IDA) ("Co-financier"):
(i) 
If the Loan Agreement specifies a date by which the agreement
with the Co-financier providing for the Co-financing ("Co-financing Agreement") is to
become effective, the Co-financing Agreement has failed to become effective by that date,
or such later date as the World Bank has established by notice to the Borrower and the
Guarantor ("Co-financing Deadline"); provided, however, that the provisions of this sub-
paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower and the Guarantor establish to the satisfaction of
the World Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available from other sources on
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower and the Guarantor
under the Legal Agreements.
(ii) 
Subject to sub-paragraph (iii) of this paragraph: (A) the right to
withdraw the proceeds of the Co-financing has been suspended, canceled or terminated in
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the Co-financing Agreement; or (B) the Co-
financing has become due and payable prior to its agreed maturity.
(iii) 
Sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
Borrower and the Guarantor establish to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring was not caused by the failure of the
recipient of the Co-financing to perform any of its obligations under the Co-financing
Agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are available from other sources on
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower and the Guarantor
under the Legal Agreements.
(i) 
Misrepresentation. A representation made by the Borrower or the
Guarantor in or pursuant to the Legal Agreements, or in pursuant to any Derivatives
Agreement, or any representation or statement fumished by the Borrower or the Guarantor
and intended to be relied upon by the World Bank in making the Loan, was incorrect in
any material respect.
-31-
(j) 
Assignment of Obligations; Disposition of Assets. The Borrower or the
Project Implementing Entity (or any other entity responsible for implementing any part of
the Project) has, without the consent of the World Bank: (i) assigned or transferred, in
whole or in part, any of its obligations arising under or entered into pursuant to the Legal
Agreements; or (ii) sold, leased, transferred, assigned, or otherwise disposed of any
property or assets financed wholly or in part out of the proceeds of the Loan; provided,
however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply with respect to transactions
in the ordinary course of business which, in the opinion of the World Bank: (A) do not
materially and adversely affect the ability of the Borrower or the Project Implementing
Entity (or such other entity) to perform any of its obligations arising under or entered into
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or to achieve the objectives of the Project; and (B) do
not materially or adversely affect the financial condition or operation of the Borrower
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity (or such other entity).
(k) 
Membership. The Member Country: (i) has been suspended from
membership in or ceased to be a member of IBRD or of IDA; or (ii) has ceased to be a
member of the International Monetary Fund.
(1) 
Condition ofBorrower or Project Implementing Entity.
(i) 
Any material adverse change in the condition of the Borrower
(other than the Member Country), as represented by it, has occurred prior to the Effective
Date.
(ii) 
The Borrower (other than the Member Country) has become
unable to pay its debts as they mature or any action or proceeding has been taken by the
Borrower or by others whereby any of the assets of the Borrower shall or may be distributed
among its creditors.
(iii) 
Any action has been taken for the dissolution, disestablishment
or suspension of operations of the Borrower (other than the Member Country) or of the
Project Implementing Entity (or of any other entity responsible for implementing any part
of the Project).
(iv) 
The Borrower (other than the Member Country) or the Project
Implementing Entity (or any other entity responsible for implementing any part of the
Project) has ceased to exist in the same legal form as that prevailing as of the date of the
Loan Agreement.
(v) 
In the opinion of the World Bank, the legal character, ownership
or control of the Borrower (other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing
Entity (or of any other entity responsible for implementing any part of the Project) has
changed from that prevailing as of the date of the Legal Agreements so as to materially and
adversely affect the ability of the Borrower or of the Project Implementing Entity (or such
-32-
other entity) to perform any of its obligations arising under or entered into pursuant to the
Legal Agreements, or to achieve the objectives of the Project.
(in) 
Ineligibility. IBRD or IDA has declared the Borrower (other than the
Member Country) or Project Implementing Entity ineligible to receive proceeds of any
financing made by IBRD or IDA or otherwise to participate in the preparation or
implementation of any.project financed in whole or in part by IBRD or IDA, as a result of:
(i) a determination by IBRD or IDA that the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity
has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the
use of the proceeds of any financing made by IBRD or IDA; and/or (ii) a declaration by
another financier that the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity is ineligible to
receive proceeds of any financing made by such financier or otherwise to participate in the
preparation or implementation of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier
as a result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the Project
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in
connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by such financier.
(n) 
Additional Event. Any other event specified in the Loan Agreement for the
purposes of this Section has occurred ("Additional Event of Suspension").
Section 6.03. 
Cancellation by the World Bank. The World Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with
respect to an amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, and cancel such amount, if any of
the following events occurs with respect to such amount:
(a) 
Suspension. The right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account has been suspended with respect to any amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance
for a continuous period of thirty days.
(b) 
Amounts not Required. The World Bank determines, after consultation
with the Borrower, that an amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance will not be required
to finance Eligible Expenditures.
(c) 
Fraud and Corruption. At any time, the World Bank determines, with
respect to any amount of the proceeds of the Loan, that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or
coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or the Guarantor or
the Project Implementing Entity (or any other recipient of the proceeds of the Loan),
without the Borrower or the Guarantor or the Project Implementing Entity (or other
recipient of the proceeds of the Loan) having taken timely and appropriate action
satisfactory to the World Bank to address such practices when they occur.
(d) 
Misprocurement. At any time, the World Bank: (i) determines that the
procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent
with the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement; and (ii) establishes the
-33-
amount of expenditures under such contract which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(e) 
Closing Date. After the Closing Date, there remains an Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance.
(f) 
Cancellation of Guarantee. The World Bank receives notice from the
Guarantor pursuant to Section 7.05 with respect to an amount of the Loan.
Section 6.04. 
Amounts Subject to Special Commitment Unaffected. No cancellation or
suspension by the World Bank shall apply to amounts subject to any Special Commitment,
except as expressly provided in the Special Commitment.
Section 6.05. 
Cancellation of Guarantee. If the Borrower has failed to pay any required
Loan Payment (otherwise than as a result of any act or omission to act of the Guarantor)
and such payment is made by the Guarantor, the Guarantor may, after consultation with
the World Bank, by notice to the World Bank and the Borrower, terminate its obligations
under the Guarantee Agreement with respect to any amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance as at the date of receipt of such notice by the World Bank; provided that such
amount is not subject to any Special Commitment. Upon receipt of such notice by the
World Bank, such obligations in respect of such amount shall terminate.
Section 6.06. 
Application of Cancelled Amounts to Maturities ofthe Loan. Except as the
Borrower and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, any cancelled amount of the Loan
shall be applied pro rata to the installments of the principal amount of the Loan falling due
after the date of such cancellation.
Section 6.07. 
Events of Acceleration. If any of the events specified in paragraphs (a)
through (f) of this Section occurs and continues for the period specified (if any), then at
any subsequent time during the continuance of the event, the World Bank may, by notice
to the Borrower and the Guarantor, declare all or part of the Withdrawn Loan Balance as
at the date of such notice to be due and payable immediately together with any other Loan
Payments due under this Agreement. Upon any such declaration, such Withdrawn Loan
Balance and Loan Payments shall become immediately due and payable.
(a) 
Payment Default. A default has occurred in the payment by the Borrower
or the Guarantor of any amount due to IBRD or IDA: (i) under the Loan Agreement or the
Guarantee Agreement; or (ii) under any other agreement between the Borrower or the
Guarantor and IBRD; or (iii) under any other agreement between the Borrower or the
Guarantor and IDA (in the case of an agreement between the Guarantor and IDA, under
circumstances which would make it unlikely that the Guarantor would meet its obligations
under the Guarantee Agreement); or (iv) in consequence of any guarantee extended or other
financial obligation of any kind assumed by IBRD or IDA to any third party with the
agreement of the Borrower or the Guarantor; and such default continues in each case for a
period of thirty (30) days.
-34-
(b) 
Performance Default
(i) 
A default has occurred in the performance by the Borrower or the
Guarantor of any other obligation under the Legal Agreement to which it is a party or under
any Derivatives Agreement, and such default continues for a period of sixty (6) days after
notice of such default has been given by the World Bank to the Borrower and the
Guarantor.
(ii) 
A default has occurred in the performance by the Project
Implementing Entity of any obligation under the Project Agreement, and such default
continues for a period of sixty (60) days after notice of such default has been given by the
World Bank to the Project Implementing Entity, the Borrower and the Guarantor.
(c) 
Co-financing The event specified in sub-paragraph (h)(ii)(B) of Section
6.02 has occurred, subject to the provision of paragraph (h)(iii) of that Section.
(d) 
Assignment of Obligations; Disposition ofAssets. Any event specified in
paragraph (j) of Section 6.02 has occurred.
(e) 
Condition of Borrower or Project Implementing Entity. Any event
specified in sub-paragraphs (1)(ii), (1)(iii), (1)(iv) or (1)(v) of Section 6.02 has occurred.
(f) 
Additional Event Any other event specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of this Section has occurred and continues for the period, if any, specified in this
Agreement ("Additional Event of Acceleration").
Section 6.08. 
Continued Effectiveness. Notwithstanding any cancellation, suspension or
acceleration under this Article, all the provisions of the Legal Agreements shall continue
in full force and effect, except as specifically provided in this Schedule 4.
ARTICLE VII
Enforceability; Arbitration
Section 7.01. 
Enforceability. The rights and obligations of the Borrower, the Guarantor
and the World Bank under the Legal Agreements shall be valid and enforceable in
accordance with their terms notwithstanding the law of any state or of any of its political
subdivisions to the contrary. Neither the Borrower, the Guarantor nor the World Bank shall
be entitled in any proceeding under this Article to assert any claim that any provision of
this Schedule or of the Legal Agreements is invalid or unenforceable because of any
provision of the Articles of Agreement of IBRD or IDA, as the case may be.
Section 7.02. 
Failure to Exercise Rights. No delay in exercising, or omission to exercise,
any right, power or remedy accruing to any party under any Legal Agreement upon any
default shall impair any such right, power or remedy or be construed to be a waiver thereof
or an acquiescence in such default. No action of such party in respect of any default, or any
-35-
acquiescence by it in any default, shall affect or impair any right, power or remedy of such
party in respect of any other or subsequent default.
Section 7.03. 
Arbitration. Any controversy between the parties to the Loan Agreement
or to the Guarantee Agreement, and any claim by any such party against the other arising
under the Loan Agreement or the Guarantee Agreement which has not been settled by
agreement of the parties shall be submitted to arbitration by an arbitral tribunal ("Arbitral
Tribunal") as hereinafter provided.
(a) 
The parties to such arbitration shall be the World Bank on the one side and
the Borrower and the Guarantor on the other side.
(b) 
The Arbitral Tribunal shall consist of three arbitrators appointed as
follows: (i) one arbitrator shall be appointed by the World Bank; (ii) a second arbitrator
shall be appointed by the Borrower or the Guarantor; and (iii) the third arbitrator
("Umpire") shall be appointed by agreement of the parties or, if they do not agree, by the
President of the International Court of Justice or, failing appointment by said President, by
the Secretary-General of the United Nations. If either side fails to appoint an arbitrator,
such arbitrator shall be appointed by the Umpire. In case any arbitrator appointed in
accordance with this Section resigns, dies or becomes unable to act, a successor arbitrator
shall be appointed in the same manner as prescribed in this Section for the appointment of
the original arbitrator and such successor shall have all the powers and duties of such
original arbitrator.
(c) 
An arbitration proceeding may be instituted under this Section upon notice
by the party instituting such proceeding to the other party. Such notice shall contain a
statement setting forth the nature of the controversy or claim to be submitted to arbitration,
the nature of the relief sought and the name of the arbitrator appointed by the party
instituting such proceeding. Within thirty (30) days after such notice, the other party shall
notify to the party instituting the proceeding the name of the arbitrator appointed by such
other party.
(d) 
If, within sixty (60) days after the notice instituting the arbitration
proceeding, the parties have not agreed upon an Umpire, either party may request the
appointment of an Umpire as provided in paragraph (b) of this Section.
(e) 
The Arbitral Tribunal shall convene at such time and place as shall be fixed
by the Umpire. Thereafter, the Arbitral Tribunal shall determine where and when it shall
sit.
(f) 
The Arbitral Tribunal shall decide all questions relating to its competence
and shall, subject to the provisions of this Section and except as the parties shall otherwise
agree, determine its procedure. All decisions of the Arbitral Tribunal shall be by majority
vote.
-36-
(g) 
The Arbitral Tribunal shall afford to the parties a fair hearing and shall
render its award in writing. Such award may be rendered by default. An award signed by a
majority of the Arbitral Tribunal shall constitute the award of the Arbitral Tribunal. A
signed counterpart of the award shall be transmitted to each party. Any such award
rendered in accordance with the provisions of this Section shall be final and binding upon
the parties to the Loan Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement. Each party shall abide
by and comply with any such award rendered by the Arbitral Tribunal in accordance with
the provisions of this Section.
(h) 
The parties shall fix the amount of the remuneration of the arbitrators and
such other persons as are required for the conduct of the arbitration proceedings. If the
parties do not agree on such amount before the Arbitral Tribunal convenes, the Arbitral
Tribunal shall fix such amount as shall be reasonable under the circumstances. Each party
shall defray its own expenses in the arbitration proceedings. The costs of the Arbitral
Tribunal shall be divided between and borne equally by the parties. Any question
concerning the division of the costs of the Arbitral Tribunal or the procedure for payment
of such costs shall be determined by the Arbitral Tribunal.
(i) 
The provisions for arbitration set forth in this Section shall be in lieu of
any other procedure for the settlement of controversies between the parties to the Loan
Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement or of any claim by any such party against the
other such party arising under the Loan Agreement and Guarantee Agreement.
(j) 
If, within thirty days after counterparts of the award have been delivered
to the parties, the award has not been complied with, any party may: (i) enter judgment
upon, or institute a proceeding to enforce, the award in any court of competent jurisdiction
against any other party; (ii) enforce such judgment by execution; or (iii) pursue any other
appropriate remedy against such other party for the enforcement of the award and the
provisions of the Loan Agreement or Guarantee Agreement. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, this Section shall not authorize any entry of judgment or enforcement of the
award against the Member Country except as such procedure may be available otherwise
than by reason of the provisions of this Section.
(k) 
Service of any notice or process in connection with any proceeding under
this Section or in connection with any proceeding to enforce any award rendered pursuant
to this Section may be made in the manner provided in Section 9.01. The parties to the
Loan Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement waive any and all other requirements for
the service of any such notice or process.
ARTICLE VIII
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 8.01. 
Conditions of Effectiveness of Legal Agreements. The Legal Agreements
shall not become effective until evidence satisfactory to the World Bank has been furnished
-37-
to the World Bank that the conditions specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this Section
have been satisfied.
(a) 
The execution and delivery of each Legal Agreement on behalf of the
Borrower, the Guarantor or the Project Implementing Entity which is a party to such Legal
Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental and
corporate action.
(b) 
If the World Bank so requests, the condition of the Borrower (other than
the Member Country) or of the Project Implementing Entity, as represented or warranted
to the World Bank at the date of the Legal Agreements, has undergone no material adverse
change after such date.
(c) 
Each other condition specified in the Loan Agreement as a condition of its
effectiveness has occurred ("Additional Condition of Effectiveness").
Section 8.02. 
Legal Opinions or Certificates. As part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to Section 8.01, there shall be furnished to the World Bank an opinion or opinions
satisfactory to the World Bank of counsel acceptable to the World Bank or, if the World
Bank so requests, a certificate satisfactory to the World Bank of a competent official of the
Member Country showing the following matters:
(a) 
on behalf of the Borrower, the Guarantor and the Project Implementing
Entity, that the Legal Agreement to which it is a party has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, such party and is legally binding upon such
party in accordance with its terms; and
(b) 
each other matter specified in the Loan Agreement or reasonably requested
by the World Bank in connection with the Legal Agreements for the purpose of this Section
("Additional Legal Matter").
Section 8.03. 
Effective Date
(a) 
Except as the World Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the
Legal Agreements shall enter into effect on the date upon which the World Bank dispatches
to the Borrower, the Guarantor and the Project Implementing Entity notice of its acceptance
of the evidence required pursuant to Section 8.01 ("Effective Date").
(b) 
If, before the Effective Date, any event has occurred which would have
entitled the World Bank to suspend the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from
the Loan Account if the Loan Agreement had been effective, the World Bank may postpone
the dispatch of the notice referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section until such event (or
events) or situation has (or have) ceased to exist.
Section 8.04. 
Termination of Legal Agreements for Failure to Become Effective. The
Legal Agreements and all obligations of the parties under the Legal Agreements shall
-38-
terminate if the Legal Agreements have not entered into effect by the date ("Effectiveness
Deadline") specified in the Loan Agreement for the purpose of this Section, unless the
World Bank, after consideration of the reasons for the delay, establishes a later
Effectiveness Deadline for the purpose of this Section. The World Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower, the Guarantor and the Project Implementing Entity of such later
Effectiveness Deadline.
Section 8.05. 
Termination of Legal Agreements on Full Payment. The Legal
Agreements and all obligations of the parties under the Legal Agreements shall forthwith
terminate upon full payment of the Withdrawn Loan Balance and all other Loan Payments
due.
ARTICLE IX
Miscellaneous
Section 9.01. 
Notices and Requests. Any notice (or request) pursuant to the any Legal
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice (or request) shall be deemed to have been duly
given (or made) when it has been delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile (or, if
permitted under the Legal Agreement, by other electronic means) to the party to which
such notice (or request) is directed ("Addressee"), at the address specified in the Legal
Agreement for the purpose (or at such other address as the Addressee shall have designated
by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request) ("Address"). Deliveries
made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.
Section 9.02. 
Action on Behalf of the Borrower, the Guarantor and the Project
Implementing Entity.
(a) 
The representative designated by the Borrower, the Guarantor and the
Project Implementing Entity in the Legal Agreement to which it is a party for the purpose
of this Section (or any person authorized in writing by such representative for the purpose)
may take any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to such Legal Agreement,
and execute any documents required or permitted to be executed pursuant to the such Legal
Agreement on behalf of the Borrower, the Guarantor or the Project Implementing Entity,
as the case may be.
(b) 
The representative so designated by the Borrower, the Guarantor, Project
Implementing Entity, or person so authorized by such representative may agree to any
modification or amplification of the provisions of the Legal Agreement on behalf of such
party by written instrument executed by such representative or authorized person; provided
that, in the opinion of such representative, the modification or amplification is reasonable
in the circumstances and will not substantially increase the obligations of Borrower, the
Guarantor and the Project Implementing Entity under the Legal Agreements. The World
Bank may accept the execution by such representative or other authorized person of any
such instrument as conclusive evidence that such representative is of such opinion.
-39-
Section 9.03. 
Evidence of Authority. The Borrower, the Guarantor and the Project
Implementing Entity shall furnish to the World Bank: (a) sufficient evidence of the
authority of the person or persons who will, on behalf of such party, take any action or
execute any documents required or permitted to be taken or executed by it under the Legal
Agreement to which it is a party; and (b) the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
Section 9.04. 
Execution in Counterparts. Each Legal Agreement may be executed in
several counterparts, each of which shall be an original.
Section 9.05. 
Disclosure. The World Bank may disclose the Legal Agreements and any
information related to the Legal Agreements in accordance with its policy on access to
information, in effect at the time of such disclosure.
-40-
APPENDIX TO SCHEDULE 4
Definitions
1. 
"Additional Condition of Effectiveness" means any condition of effectiveness
specified in the Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 9.01 (c) of this
Schedule.
2. 
"Additional Event of Acceleration" means any event specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 6.07 (f).
3. 
"Additional Event of Suspension" means any event of suspension specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 6.02 (n).
4. 
"Additional Legal Matter" means each matter specified in the Loan Agreement or
requested by the World Bank in connection with the Legal Agreements for the
purpose of Section 8.02 (b).
5. 
"Address" means the address of the Addressee referred to in Section 9.01, to which
notices and requests pursuant to the Loan Agreement are to be directed.
6. 
"Addressee" means the party to which notices and requests are to be directed for
the purpose of Section 9.01.
7. 
"Application" means an application made by the Borrower pursuant to Section
3.04 for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan from the Loan Account or to request
the World Bank to enter into a Special Commitment with respect to an amount of
the Loan.
8. 
"Arbitral Tribunal" means the arbitral tribunal established pursuant to Section
7.03.
9. 
"Borrower" means the party to the Loan Agreement to which the Loan is made.
10. 
"Borrower's Representative" means the representative referred to in Section 9.02
designated by the Borrower in the Loan Agreement or authorized in writing by
such representative for the purpose of such Section.
11. 
"Closing Date" means the date specified in the Loan Agreement (or such later date
as the World Bank shall establish by notice to the Borrower) after which the World
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to
withdraw from the Loan Account.
-41-
12. 
"Co-financier" means the financier (other than IBRD or IDA) referred to in Section
6.02 (h) providing the Co-financing. If the Loan Agreement specifies more than
one such financier, "Co-financier" refers separately to each of such financiers.
13. 
"Co-financing" means the financing referred to in Section 6.02 (h) and specified
in the Loan Agreement provided or to be provided for the Project by the Co-
financier. If the Loan Agreement specifies more than one such financing, "Co-
financing" refers separately to each of such financings.
14. 
"Co-financing Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 6.02 (h) (i)
providing for the Co-financing.
15. 
"Co-financing Deadline" means the date referred to in Section 6.02 (h) (i) and
specified in the Loan Agreement by which the Co-financing Agreement is to
become effective. If the Loan Agreement specifies more than one such date, "Co-
financing Deadline" refers separately to each of such dates.
16. 
"Completion Report" means each report to be prepared and furnished to the World
Bank pursuant to Section 2.06 (c).
17. 
"Derivatives Agreement" means any derivatives agreement between the World
Bank and the Borrower or the Guarantor for the purpose of documenting and
confirming one or more derivatives transactions between the World Bank and the
Borrower or the Guarantor, as such agreement may be amended from time to time.
"Derivatives Agreement" includes all schedules, annexes and agreements
supplemental to the Derivatives Agreement.
18. 
"Designated Account" means each account referred to in Section 3.05 into which
the Bank may deposit amounts withdrawn from the Loan Account as advances for
purposes of the Project.
19. 
"Dollar", "$" and "USD" each means the lawful currency of the United States of
America.
20. 
"Effective Date" means the date on which the Legal Agreements enter into effect
pursuant to Section 8.03 (a).
21. 
"Effectiveness Deadline" means the date referred to in Section 8.04 after which
the Legal Agreements shall terminate if they have not entered into effect as
provided in that Section.
22. 
"Eligible Expenditure" means an expenditure the payment for which meets the
requirements of Section 3.06 and which is consequently eligible for Loan out of
the proceeds of the Loan.
-42-
23. 
"External Debt" means any debt which is or may become payable in a currency
other than the currency of the Member Country.
24. 
"Financial Statements" means the financial statements to be maintained for the
Project in accordance with Section 2.07.
25. 
"Guarantee Agreement" means the agreement between the Member Country and
the World Bank providing for the guarantee of the Loan, as such agreement may
be amended from time to time. "Guarantee Agreement" includes any Standard
Conditions as applied to the Guarantee Agreement, and all appendices, schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Guarantee Agreement.
26. 
"Guarantor" means the Member Country which is a party to the Guarantee
Agreement.
27. 
"Guarantor's Representative" means the Guarantor's representative specified in
the Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 9.02.
28. 
"IBRD" means the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
29. 
"IDA" means the International Development Association.
30. 
"Legal Agreement" means any of the Loan Agreement, the Guarantee Agreement,
or the Project Agreement. 
"Legal Agreements" means, collectively, all such
agreements.
31. 
"Lien" means any lien including mortgages, pledges, charges, privileges and
priorities of any kind.
32. 
"Loan" means the Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement.
33. 
"Loan Account" means the account opened by the World Bank in its books in the
name of the Borrower to which the Loan is credited in accordance with Section
3.01 (a).
34. 
"Loan Agreement" means this Agreement, as such agreement may be amended
from time to time, and it includes all appendices, schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Loan Agreement.
35. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Borrower or the Guarantor to
the World Bank pursuant to the Loan Agreement, including (but not limited to)
any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, and Service Charge and any refund
of the Withdrawn Loan Amount payable by the Borrower.
-43-
36. 
"Member Country" means the member of the World Bank in whose territory the
Project is carried out or any of such member's political or administrative
subdivisions. If the Loan is extended by the World Bank to such member as a
party to the Loan Agreement, the terms "Member Country" and "Borrower" refer
to the same entity. If the Loan is guaranteed by a Guarantee Agreement, the terms
"Member Country" and "Guarantor" refer to the same entity.
37. 
"Payment Currency" means the currency specified in the Loan Agreement in
which Loan Payments are to be paid pursuant to Section 4.07 (a).
38. 
"Payment Date" means each date specified in the Loan Agreement occurring on or
after the date of the Loan Agreement on which an installment of the principal
amount of the Loan, Service Charges are payable.
39. 
"Project" means the project described in the Loan Agreement, for which the Loan
is made, as the description of such project may be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Borrower and the World Bank.
40. 
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the World Bank and the
Project Implementing Entity relating to the implementation of all or part of the
Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time. "Project
Agreement" includes any Standard Conditions as applied to the Project
Agreement, and all appendices, schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement.
41. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means a legal entity (other than the Borrower or the
Guarantor) which is responsible for implementing all or a part of the Project and
which is a party to the Project Agreement. If the World Bank enters into a Project
Agreement with more than one such entity, "Project Implementing Entity" refers
separately to each such entity.
42. 
"Project Implementing Entity's Representative" means the Project Implementing
Entity's representative specified in the Project Agreement for the purpose of
Section 9.02.
43. 
"Project Report" means each report on the Project to be prepared and furnished to
the World Bank for the purpose of Section 2.06 (b) (i).
44. 
"Public Assets" means assets of the Member Country, of any of its political or
administrative subdivisions and of any entity owned or controlled by, or operating
for the account or benefit of, the Member Country or any such subdivision,
including gold and foreign exchange assets held by any institution performing the
functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for
the Member Country.
-44-
45. 
"Respective Part of the Project" means, for the Borrower and the Project
Implementing Entity, the part of the Project specified in the Legal Agreements to
be carried by it.
46. 
"Service Charge" means the charge specified in the Loan Agreement for the
purpose of Section 4.02.
47. 
"Special Commitment" means any special commitment entered into or to be
entered into by the World Bank pursuant to Section 3.03.
48. 
"Supporting Evidence" means the evidence and documents to be furnished to the
World Bank in accordance with Section 3.04 (b) in connection with an
Application.
49. 
"Taxes" includes imposts, levies, fees and duties of any nature, whether in effect
at the date of the Loan Agreement or imposed after that date.
50. 
"Umpire" means the third arbitrator appointed pursuant to Section 7.03 (b).
51. 
"Unwithdrawn Loan Balance" means the amount of the Loan remaining
unwithdrawn from the Loan Account from time to time.
52. 
"Withdrawn Loan Balance" means the amounts of the Loan withdrawn from the
Loan Account and outstanding from time to time.
53. 
"World Bank" means IBRD.
-45-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Affected Person" means a person who as a result of: (i) the involuntary taking of
land under the Project is affected in any of the following ways: (A) relocation or
loss of shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources
or means of livelihood, whether or not the affected person must move to another
location; or (ii) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and
protected areas suffers adverse impacts on his or her livelihood; and "Affected
Person" means any of the Affected Persons.
2. 
"Annual Work Plan and Budget" means the annual work plan and budget as
prepared by the PIU and approved by the Bank in accordance with the provisions
of Section I.F of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
3. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
4. 
"Bank Guarantee" means the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development guarantee backstopping a share of the repayment of the SWIOFish
3 Blue Bond.
5. 
"Blue Grants" means grants provided by SeyCCAT to Protected Areas Network
Beneficiaries and Priority Fisheries Beneficiaries, under Parts A.3 and B.4 of the
Project.
6. 
"Blue Loans" means loans provided by DBS to Blue Investment Fund
Beneficiaries, under Part C.5 of the Project.
7. 
"Blue Investment Fund" means a fund to be established by DBS to operate the
Blue Loans as further detailed in the DBS Subsidiary Agreement.
8. 
"Blue Investment Fund Beneficiaries" means individuals and/or firms to which a
Blue Loan is made pursuant to Part C.5 of the Project.
9. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
10. 
"Central Bank of Seychelles" means the Borrower's central banking institution
enacted under the Central Bank of Seychelles Act 2004.
11. 
"Co-financiers" 
means 
the 
International 
Bank 
for Reconstruction 
and
Development, acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment
-46-
Facility (GEF) and the Borrower as the issuer of the SWIOFish 3 Blue Bond, and
"Co-financier" means each and any of the Co-financiers.
12. 
"Co-financing" means, for purposes of paragraph 16 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, a GEF Grant in an amount of approximately US$5.921 10
million and GEF Loan in an amount of approximately US$5 million and the
Borrower's SWIOFish 3 Blue Bond in an amount of approximately US$15 million
to assist in financing the Project.
13. 
"Co-financing Agreement" means the GEF Grant Agreement or the GEF Loan
Agreement, and "Co-financing Agreements" means both agreements.
14. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
15. 
"DBS" means Development Bank of Seychelles, a development finance institution
with a specific mandate to assist in the economic development of the Borrower
pursuant to the DBS Legislation.
16. 
"DBS' Legislation" means the Borrower's decree [Chapter 63], dated February 1,
1978, establishing DBS.
17. 
"DBS Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.C. of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make part of
the proceeds of the SWIOFish 3 Blue Bond available to DBS.
18. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the
framework disclosed in the Borrower's territory on May 11, 2017 and on the
Bank's website on May 12, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank,
outlining environmental and social implementation procedures, mitigation
measures and monitoring procedures for the Project, as said framework may be
amended from time to time with the Bank's prior written approval, and such term
includes any schedules or annexes to the framework.
19. 
"Environmental and Social Management Plan" or "ESMP" means a plan to be
prepared by the Borrower for the purposes of the Project proposing appropriate
mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures designed to mitigate potential
adverse environmental impacts, offset them, reduce them to acceptable levels or
enhance positive impacts, as the same may be amended from time to time with the
agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any schedules or annexes to the
plan.
-47-
20. 
"Fisheries Economic Intelligence Unit" means the specialized unit to be
established within the Borrower's territory provide monitoring, analysis and
reporting of economic information for the fisheries sector.
21. 
"Fisheries Monitoring Center" means the sub-unit of the monitoring, control and
surveillance section of the Seychelles Fishing Authority that is responsible for
ensuring fishing vessel compliance with reporting and vessel monitoring system
requirements, as well as validation of statistical reporting documents for regional
fisheries bodies and catch certificates.
22. 
"Fishers and Boat Owners Association" means a locally registered non-
governmental organization with a membership comprising boat owners and
fishermen operating in the domestic fisheries sector of Seychelles, registered under
Registration of Associations Act (CAP201), Section 4, on the 22nd March 2017
(number A431416).
23. 
"GEF Grant" means the proceeds provided by the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development, acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global
Environment Facility (GEF), to the Borrower, under the GEF Grant Agreement.
24. 
"GEF Grant Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, acting
as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) providing
for the GEF Grant, of the same date as this Agreement, as such agreement may be
amended from time to time.
25. 
"GEF Loan" means the proceeds provided by the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development, acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global
Environment Facility (GEF), to the Borrower, under the GEF Loan Agreement.
26. 
"GEF Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, acting
as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) providing
for the GEF Loan, as such agreement may be amended from time to time.
27. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
28. 
"IOC" means the Indian Ocean Commission.
29. 
"Livelihood Restoration Plan" or "LRP" means a plan to be prepared by the
Borrower for the purposes of the Project, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank, setting forth the specific modalities for compensation of Affected Persons
under the Project, as said document may be amended and/or supplemented from
-48-
time to time with the prior written concurrence of the Bank and subject to the initial
consultation and disclosure requirements carried out on the LRP, and such term
includes any schedules or annexes to the plan.
30. 
"Mah6 Plateau" means the Borrower's plateau that hosts the granitic islands.
31. 
"MAF" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for agriculture and fisheries,
and any successor thereto.
32. 
"METT" means management effectiveness tracking tool.
33. 
"MFTEP" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for finance, and any
successor thereto.
34. 
"National Bureau of Statistics" means the institution established by the Borrower's
National Bureau ofStatistics Act 2010, which is responsible for the production and
dissemination of statistics in the Borrower's territory.
35. 
"Operating Costs" means incremental recurrent expenditures incurred on account
of Project implementation, including: local contractual support staff salaries; travel
expenditures 
and other travel-related 
allowances; 
equipment rental and
maintenance; materials and supplies; and utilities, media information campaigns
and communications' expenses, but excluding the salaries of officials and public
servants of the Borrower's civil service. "Preparation Advance" means the advance
referred to in Section 2.07 (a) of the General Conditions, granted by the Bank to
the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on behalf of the Bank on
April 11, 2016 and on behalf of the Borrower on April 28, 2016.
36. 
"Priority Fisheries Beneficiaries" means individuals and/or firms to which a Blue
Grant is provided pursuant to Part B.4 of the Project.
37. 
"Process Framework" or "PF" means the Borrower framework disclosed in the
Borrower's territory on May 11, 2017 and on the Bank's website on May 12, 2017,
outlining the participatory process to be followed for activities implemented under
the Project that lead to restrictions of access to natural resources in Targeted Zones,
including legally designated parks and protected areas, including the criteria for
eligibility of project affected persons for receiving any mitigating or compensating
measures under the project, as said framework may be amended and/or
supplemented from time to time with the prior written consent of the Bank, and
such term includes any schedules to such framework.
38. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under 1BRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
-49-
39. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
June 20, 2017 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
40. 
"Program" or "South West Indian Ocean Fisheries Governance and Shared Growth
Program "means the program designed to increase the economic, social, and
environmental benefits to SWIO countries from sustainable marine fisheries.
41. 
"Project Implementation Unit" or "PIU" means the unit established within MFTEP
pursuant to the Borrower's letter dated June 1', 2017, responsible for the day to
day implementation of the Project.
42. 
"Project Operations Manual" means the manual to be prepared and adopted by the
Borrower in accordance with the provisions of Section I.E of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, as the same may be revised from time to time with the prior written
consent of the Bank.
43. 
"Project Steering Committee" means the steering committee established by the
Borrower pursuant to the Borrower's letter dated June 1t, 2017.
44. 
"Protected Areas Network Beneficiaries" means individuals and/or firms to which
a Blue Grant is provided pursuant to Part A.3 of the Project.
45. 
"Providence Fish Center" means a proposed fish auction and marketing facility,
the proposed location of which is the port at Providence, Mah, Seychelles.
46. 
"Safeguards 
Instruments" means, collectively, the ESMF, 
PF and any
Supplemental Safeguards Instrument.
47. 
"SeyCCAT" means the Seychelles Conservation and Climate Adaptation Trust,
established pursuant to SeyCCAT's Legislation.
48. 
"SeyCCAT's Legislation" means the Borrower's Conservation and Climate
Adaptation Trust of Seychelles Act, dated November 19, 2015.
49. 
"SeyCCAT Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section
I.B. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make
part of the proceeds of the SWIOFish 3 Blue Bond available to SeyCCAT.
50. 
"Seychelles Fishing Authority" means the independent entity established pursuant
to the Seychelles Fishing Authority Establishment Act 1984, which has the
oversight responsibility over the fisheries sector pursuant to the Fisheries Act
2014.
-50-
51. 
"Supplemental Safeguards Instrument" means collectively, any ESMP, LRP, or
any other instrument required under the terms of the Safeguards Framework
Documents, to be prepared by the Borrower and approved by the Bank for
purposes of the Project, proposing appropriate mitigation, monitoring and
institutional measures designed to mitigate potential adverse environmental and
social impacts, offset them, reduce them to acceptable levels or enhance positive
impacts, as the said plan may be amended and/or supplemented from time to time
with the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
52. 
"Sustainable-use Marine Protected Areas" means designated areas of the marine
environment that contain modified or unmodified natural systems, managed to
ensure long term protection and maintenance of ecosystems and services, while
providing at the same time a sustainable flow of natural products and services
compatible with nature conservation, pursuant to the Borrower's Protected Areas
Policy 2013.
53. 
"Sustainable-use Marine Protected Areas Network" means the network of
Sustainable-use Marine Protected Areas.
54. 
"SWIO" means South West Indian Ocean.
55. 
"SWIOFish 3 Blue Bond" means the bond issued by the Borrower to finance part
of the cost of Parts A.3, B.4 and C.5 of the Project.
56. 
"SWIOFish 3 Blue Bond Account" means the special account established in
accordance with Section I.A.3. of the GEF Loan Agreement, to receive the
proceeds of the GEF Loan.
57. 
"SWIOFish 3 Blue Bond Account Manual" means the operations manual for the
SWIOFish 3 Blue Bond Account, to be prepared as part of the Project Operations
Manual, in accordance with Section I.E. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
58. 
"Targeted Zones" means any geographical areas where Project activities will be
implemented, including Sustainable-use Marine Protected Areas and the Mah6
Plateau.
59. 
"Training" means the training of persons under the Project based on the Annual
Work Program approved by the Bank, including through seminars, workshops,
knowledge sharing activities and study tours, and covers the following costs
associated with such activity: travel and subsistence costs for training participants,
costs associated with securing the services of trainers, rental of training facilities,
preparation and reproduction of training materials, and other costs directly related
to training preparation and implementation.
