OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8749-HR
Loan Agreement
(Modernization and Restructuring of the Road Sector Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
, 2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
/ 
5 f 
, 201, between REPUBLIC
OF CROATIA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of twenty two million Euro
(E 22,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
not later than sixty days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread;
provided, however, that the interest payable shall in no event be less than
zero percent (0%) per annum; and provided furthermore that, upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest
payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be
determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General
Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan
Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of
-2
thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as
provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule and provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; and (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall carry out Parts A and B(a) of the Project through its Ministry
of Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, and shall cause Parts B(b) of the Project to be
carried out by HC and HAC, Parts B(c) and B(d) of the Project to be carried out
by HAC and ARZ, Part B(e) of the Project to be carried out by HC and Part B(f)
of the Project to be carried out by HAC, each in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and the Subsidiary Agreement or Inter-
Institutional Agreements, as relevant.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
-3
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that any of
the HC Legislation, HAC Legislation or ARZ Legislation has been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely
the ability of any of HC, HAC or ARZ to perform any of their obligations under
the respective Subsidiary Agreement or Inter-Institutional Agreement, as relevant.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that any
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to
the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -EFFECTIVENESS
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement and inter-Institutional Agreements have been
executed on behalf of the Borrower and each of HC, HAC and ARZ, as
relevant.
(b) 
The Project Implementation Manual shall have been adopted by the
Borrower, through MSTI, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the Subsidiary
Agreement and Inter-Institutional Agreements have been duly authorized or
ratified by the Borrower, MSTI, and each of HC, HAC and ARZ (as relevant) and
are legally binding upon the Borrower, MSTI each of HC, HAC and ARZ (as
relevant) in accordance with their terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty (180) days after the
date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its minister in charge of finance or any successor
thereto.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Katanciceva 5
-4
10000 Zagreb
Republic of Croatia
Facsimile:
+385 1 4591416
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-5
AGREED at Zagreb, Republic of Croatia, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
By
Akth izeflepresentative
Name: .ia'~tcrc
Title: /1(/1,l 
/' 0 
e'we
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
A 
rized Representative
Name: 
L
Title:
-6
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to strengthen institutional effectiveness, enhance
operational efficiency and increase debt service capacity of the Borrower's road sector.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: Institutional Strengthening and Sector Reforms
The objective of this component is to establish an institutional framework for the road
sector, including through:
(a) Financial Transaction Advisor
Hiring of a financial transaction advisor who shall, inter alia: (a) prepare a debt
optimization strategy for the Road Sector Companies; (b) analyze debt facilities for
rescheduling and refinancing; (c) propose the type and sequencing of the refinancing
instrument; and (d) develop and implement the engagement strategy for communication,
negotiation and conclusion of the arrangements with the capital market.
(b) Transport Sector Planning and Road Sector Governance and Monitoring
(i) 
Development of a directorate in the MSTI to coordinate strategic planning
and public investment management.
(ii) 
Development of a sector governance framework including definition of
KPIs and monitoring arrangements.
(iii) 
Establishment of an application for data exchange and reporting between
MSTI and the Road Sector Companies.
(iv) 
Improvement and standardization of accounting practices across the Road
Sector Companies.
(v) 
Improvement of the business environment for the freight transport
industry through review of administrative processes applied to the road
transport sector.
(vi) 
Introduction and improvement of citizen engagement through consultation
processes.
(c) Implementation support
Provision of support to MSTI in managing and coordinating the Project and building
its procurement, financial management, safeguards management, monitoring and
evaluation capacity, dealing with legal, public relations, communication and human
resources matters through the provision of technical advisory services, Training, as well as
Project audits.
-7
Part B: Operational Restructuring of Road Sector Companies
The objective of this component is to implement management tools and carry out
the revenue enhancement and cost rationalization actions required to improve operational
and financial sustainability of the Road Sector Companies, including through:
(a) Road classification and standards
Provision of support to MSTI and the Road Sector Companies to: (i)
implement a technical classification of the public road network; and (ii)
develop consistent sets of maintenance-related regulations and specifications
for all classes of roads.
(b) Road Asset Management System
(i) 
Design and implementation of a road asset management system (RAMS)
for all Road Sector Companies to comprise a computerized database with
inventory, condition and traffic data.
(ii) 
Development of a multi-year costed road maintenance program by each
Road Sector Company.
(c) Rationalization of Operations and Business Functions - Motorways
(i) 
Development of action plans and their implementation to improve
technical and business efficiency and effectiveness through optimization
of management and roads' operations and maintenance costs, outsourcing
enhancement and rationalization of technical units, administrative
activities and revenue improvements.
(ii) 
Provision of staff retrenchment packages to include support for
retraining, 
counselling, 
advisory 
services 
and 
employment
intermediation.
(d) Tolling
Carrying out of studies to identify the preferred automated tolling system and new
tariff structure, including plans to transition from the current system and pricing
regime.
(e) Operational and business rationalization of HC
Development of an action plan to support the: (i) restructuring and transition of
HC to a regional management system based on six regions; (ii) carrying out of joint
procurement at regional level among HC and ZUC; (iii) development of improved
maintenance contracting practices; and (iv) assessment and programming of periodic
maintenance based on the RAMS.
(f) Road Safety
-8
Carrying out of technical studies for purpose of increasing road safety on the
motorway system including tunnels and traffic information.
-9
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Project Steering Committee
The Borrower, through MSTI, shall maintain at all times during the
implementation of the Project, the Project Steering Committee (PSC) chaired by
the Minister of MSTI with composition, mandate and resources satisfactory to the
Bank, for the purpose of guidance and monitoring of all technical and financial
aspects of the sector reform and debt refinancing, while ensuring Project oversight
and timely decision making, including being responsible for strategic guidance of
Project implementation and coordination of the Project-led initiatives and reforms.
B. 
Project Implementation Unit
The Borrower, shall ensure that the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), established
within MSTI, is maintained at all times during the implementation of the Project,
with composition, mandate and resources satisfactory to the Bank, for the purpose
of ensuring prompt and efficient overall coordination, implementation and
communication of Project activities, including being responsible for: (i) technical
investments, 
retrenchment 
and human 
resources 
aspects; 
(ii) financial
management and procurement; (iii) ensuring compliance with environmental and
social safeguards; (iv) preparing and circulating progress reports every semester;
and (v) monitoring and evaluation of Project activities. The PIU shall report to the
Minister of MSTI and the PSC.
C. 
Subsidiary Agreement and Inter-Institutional Agreements
(a) 
To facilitate the carrying out of Parts B(b), (c), (d) and (f) of the Project,
the Borrower, through MOF, shall make part of the proceeds of the Loan
available to HAC under a subsidiary agreement between the Borrower,
through MOF and MSTI, and HAC (the Subsidiary Agreement), under
terms and conditions approved by the Bank, whereby, inter alia: (i) the
Borrower, through MOF and MSTI, agrees to make available to HAC, on
a grant basis and free of any charges, part of the proceeds of the Loan to
finance HAC's activities described under Part B(c)(ii) of the Project; (ii)
HAC agrees to cooperate with the Borrower in the carrying out of the
activities under Part B (b), (c), (d) and (f) of the Project, including by
exchanging information, holding reviews and providing reports on the
progress of activities under its responsibility in accordance with the terms
and conditions set forth in this Agreement, as well as by complying with
the Anti-Corruption Guidelines, Project Implementation Manual and
World Bank's Safeguard Policies; and (iii) the Borrower, through MOF
-10
and MSTI, agrees to take all action necessary to permit HAC to implement
Parts B (b), (c), (d) and (f) of the Project.
(b) 
The Borrower, through MOF and MSTI, shall exercise its rights and carry
out its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Agreement or any of its provisions.
(c) 
To facilitate the carrying out of: (i) Parts B(b) and B (e) of the Project, the
Borrower, through MSTI, shall enter into an inter-institutional agreement
with 
HC 
(the Inter-Institutional Agreement/HC), under terms and
conditions approved by the Bank, whereby, inter alia: (1) HC agrees to
cooperate with MSTI in the carrying out of the activities under Parts
B(b)and B(e) of the Project, including by exchanging information, holding
reviews and providing reports on the progress of activities under its
responsibility in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement, as well as by complying with the Project Implementation
Manual, the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and the World Bank's Safeguards
Policies; and (2) the Borrower agrees to take all action necessary to permit
HC to implement Part B(b) and B(e) of the Project; and (ii) Parts B (c) and
B (d) of the Project, the Borrower, through MSTI, shall enter into an inter-
institutional 
agreement 
with 
ARZ 
(the 
Inter-Institutional
Agreement/ARZ), under terms and conditions approved by the Bank,
whereby, inter alia: (1) ARZ agrees to cooperate with MSTI 
in the
carrying out of the activities under Parts B(c) and B(d) of the Project,
including by exchanging information, holding reviews and providing
reports on the progress of activities under its responsibility in accordance
with the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, as well as by
complying with the Project Implementation Manual, the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines and World Bank's Safeguards Policies.
(d) 
The Borrower, through MSTI, shall exercise its rights and carry out its
obligations under each of the Inter-Institutional Agreements in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Inter-
Institutional Agreements or any of their provisions.
D. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
-11
E. 
Project Implementation Manual
1. 
The Borrower, through MSTI, shall carry out the Project in accordance with a
project implementation manual in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank,
providing details of arrangements and procedures for the implementation of the
Project, including: (a) capacity building activities for sustained achievement of the
Project's objective; (b) disbursement and financial management; (c) institutional
administration, coordination and day-to-day execution of Project activities; (d)
monitoring, evaluation, reporting (including mechanisms and formats for the
preparation of Annual Work Plans and Budgets), information and communication;
(e) procurement; and (f) such other administrative, financial, technical and
organizational arrangements and procedures as shall be required for the Project;
provided, however, that in case of any conflict between the provisions of the
Project Implementation Manual and those of this Agreement, this Agreement shall
prevail.
2. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through MSTI, shall not
amend, abrogate or waive any provision of the Project Implementation Manual if,
in the opinion of the Bank, such amendment or waiver may materially and
adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
F. 
Annual Work Plan and Budget
1 .
The Borrower, through MSTI, shall cause the Road Sector Companies to prepare
and furnish to the Bank for review and approval, not later than one (1) month prior
to the start of each fiscal year of the Borrower during the implementation of the
Project, a proposed annual work plan and budget covering all activities proposed
to be carried out under the Project in the forthcoming fiscal year.
2. 
Each such proposed annual work plan and budget shall specify among the
activities, any training activities that may be required under the Project, including:
(a) the type of training; (b) the purpose of the training; (c) the personnel to be
trained; (d) the institution or individual who will conduct the training; (e) the
location and duration of the training; (f) the cost of the training; and (g) the
expected outcome and impact of the training.
3. 
The Borrower, through MSTI, shall cause the Road Sector Companies to afford
the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower on each
such proposed annual work plan and budget, and thereafter to implement the
Project or cause it to be implemented with due diligence in accordance with such
annual work plan and budget as shall have been approved by the Bank.
-12
G. 
Safeguards Instruments
1. 
The Borrower, through MSTI, shall cause each of the Road Sector Companies to
ensure that an ESMS acceptable to the Bank is in place and operated in a manner
acceptable to the Bank throughout Project implementation.
2. 
The Borrower, through MSTI, shall cause the Road Sector Companies to, not later
than twelve (12) months after the Effective Date, carry out an ESCR under terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and on the basis of said ESCR, cause the
Road Sector Companies to: (i) prepare and disclose an action plan that, inter alia,
identifies actions, agreed with the Bank, as may be necessary for the
environmentally and socially sustainable management of the Borrower's road
sector; and (ii) adopt such action plan not later than three months after the
completion of the ESCR.
3. 
The Borrower, through MSTI, shall ensure that the Project Reports referred to in
Part A of Section II of this Schedule include adequate information on the status of
compliance with the provisions of this paragraph, including information on the
status of preparation and implementation of the instruments referred to in
paragraphs I and 2 herein.
4. 
For purposes of Part B (c)(ii) of the Project, the Borrower, through MSTI shall
cause the Road Sector Companies to: (i) prepare Retrenchment Plans under terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank and on the basis of the Retrenchment
Framework; (ii) adopt such Retrenchment Plans before any retrenchment is carried
out under the Project; and (iii) ensure that any retrenchment of the Road Sector
Companies' staff is carried out according to such Retrenchment Plans, in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank.
5. 
The Borrower, through MSTI, shall ensure that all terms of reference for any
technical assistance, studies, and analytical work under the Project are consistent
with the Bank's environmental and social safeguards.
6. 
The Borrower, through MSTI, shall cause the Road Sector Companies to maintain
a grievance redress mechanism for the Project, with adequate staffing and
processes acceptable to the Bank, to address any grievances associated with
potential retrenchment under the Project.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower, through MSTI, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the
Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester,
-13
and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one (1) month after the end of the
period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower, through MSTI, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the
General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower,
through MSTI, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report
not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim
unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through MSTI, shall have the Project's Financial Statements
audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General
Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one
(1) fiscal year of the Borrower, commencing with the fiscal year in which the first
withdrawal was made under the Project. The audited Financial Statements for each
such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the
end of such period.
4. 
The Borrower, through MSTI, shall cause each of the Road Sector Companies to
have their respective financial statements and their consolidated HAC group
financial statements, as applicable, audited by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to
the Bank. Each audit of these financial statements shall cover the period of one
(1) fiscal year of the Borrower, commencing with the fiscal year in which the first
withdrawal is made under the Project.
5. 
The Borrower, through MSTI, shall cause each of the Road Sector Companies to
furnish their respective audited financial statements and the consolidated HAC
group audited financial statements, as applicable, for each period referred to under
paragraph 4 above to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such
period and make them publicly available within thirty (30) days from their
receipt of the audit report on their company's websites.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods and non-consulting services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I
of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
-14
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and InI of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, HI, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services
1 .
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods, and non-consulting services for those contracts
specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to
the additional procedures stipulated in the Annex to this Schedule; (b) Shopping;
and (c) Direct Contracting.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; 
(c) 
Least Cost Selection; 
(d) Selection based on Consultants'
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (i) Procedures set
forth in Section V. of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of Individual
Consultants; and (j) Single-source procedures for the Selection of Individual
Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
-15
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"Disbursement Guidelines for Investment Project Financing" dated February
2017, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in EURO) 
(inclusive Taxes)
(1) 
Goods, 
non- 
15,230,000 
100%
consulting services,
consultants' services
and Training for the
Project
(2) 
Retrenchment 
4,770,000 
100%
Payments under Part
B(c)(ii) 
of 
the
Project
(3) Unallocated 
2,000,000
TOTAL AMOUNT 
22,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
I. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the
Front-end Fee; or
-16
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed Euro three million
(C 3,000,000) may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or
after January 1, 2017, for Eligible Expenditures under Category (1).
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2021.
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
A. 
For purposes of Part B(c) (ii) of the Project, the Borrower, through MSTI, shall
carry out a specific audit of the reimbursement applications related to the Retrenchment
Payments financed under the Project as part of the regular Project audit. Such audit shall
include agreed upon procedures to obtain reasonable assurance on the eligibility, existence,
correct amounts of paid retrenchment obligations under the Project.
B. 
Before finalizing any of its annual road sector investment programs, the Borrower
shall, through MSTI, cause the Road Sector Companies to, verify with the Bank that such
programs reflect sound economic criteria consistent with both the letter of sector policy
adopted by the Borrower on March 16, 2017, and the objective of the Project.
C. 
The Borrower, through MSTI, shall cause each Road Sector Company to approve
a governance plan acceptable to the Bank by June 30, 2017, and thereafter carry it out
throughout Project implementation.
-17
ANNEX
to
SCHEDULE 2
Additional Provisions for National Competitive Bidding
For the purposes of following National Competitive Bidding procedures in the
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services to be financed under the Loan,
and to ensure broader consistency with the provisions of Section I of the Guidelines, the
following modifications and additions shall apply:
(i) 
Procedures
Open competitive bidding method shall apply to all contracts. Invitations to bid
shall be advertised in the Borrower's Official Gazette (Narodne Novine) and in at least one
widely circulated national daily newspaper or on the website of MSTI allowing a minimum
of thirty (30) days for the preparation and submission of bids.
(ii) 
Participation of Government-owned Enterprises
Government-owned enterprises located and operating on the Borrower's territory
shall be eligible to participate in bidding only if they can establish, to the Bank's
satisfaction, that they are legally and financially autonomous, operate under commercial
laws and are not a dependent agency of the Borrower's government. Said enterprises shall
be subject to the same bid and performance security requirements as other bidders.
(iii) 
Bidding Documents
The Borrower shall use appropriate bidding documents that are acceptable to the
Bank.
(iv) 
Bid Submission, Opening and Evaluation
(1) 
Bids shall be submitted in a single envelope containing the bidder's
qualification information, technical and price bids, which shall be opened simultaneously
at the public bid opening.
(2) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for
submission of bids. The name of the bidder, the total amount of each bid and any discounts
offered shall be read aloud and recorded in the minutes of the public bid opening.
(3) 
The evaluation of bids shall be done in strict adherence to the monetarily
quantifiable criteria specified in the bidding documents and a merit point system shall not
be used.
-18
(4) 
Extension of bid validity shall be allowed once only for not more than
thirty (30) days. No further extensions should be granted without the prior approval of the
Bank.
(5) 
Contracts shall be awarded to qualified bidders having submitted the
lowest evaluated substantially responsive bid.
(6) 
No preference shall apply under National Competitive Bidding.
(v) 
Rejection of All Bids
(1) 
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Bank's
prior written concurrence.
(2) 
When the number of bids received is less than two, re-bidding shall not be
carried out without the Bank's prior concurrence.
(vi) 
Price Adjustment
Civil works contracts of long duration (e.g., more than eighteen (18) months) shall
contain an appropriate price adjustment clause.
(vii) 
Securities
Bid securities should not exceed two percent (2%) of the estimated cost of the
contract and performance securities not more than ten percent (10%). No advance
payments shall be made to contractors without a suitable advance payment security. The
wording of all such securities shall be included into the bidding documents and shall be
acceptable to the Bank.
(vii) 
Right to inspect and audit
Each bidding document and contract financed from the proceeds of the Loan shall
provide that the bidders, suppliers and contractors, and their subcontractors, agents,
personnel, consultants, service providers, or suppliers, shall permit the Bank, at its request,
to inspect all accounts, records, and other documents relating to the submission of bids and
contract performance, and to have them audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. Acts
intended to materially impede the exercise of the Bank's inspection and audit rights
provided for in the Procurement and Consultant Guidelines constitute an obstructive
practice as defined in the Guidelines.
(ix) 
Fraud & Corruption
Any bidding document and contract deemed acceptable by the Bank shall include
provisions stating the Bank's policy to sanction firms or individuals, found to have engaged
in fraudulent, corrupt, collusive, coercive, and obstructive practices as defined in the
-19
Procurement Guidelines. The Bank shall declare a firm or individual ineligible, either
indefinitely or for a stated period, to be awarded a contract financed by the Bank, if it at
any time determines that the firm or individual has, directly or through an agent, engaged
in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in competing for, or in
executing, a contract financed by the World Bank Group.
(x) 
Conflict of Interest
Any bidding document and contract deemed acceptable by the Bank shall include
provisions stating the Bank's policy of conflict of interest.
-20
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning May 15, 2021
through May 15, 2026 
8.33%
On November 15, 2026 
8.37%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
-21
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
-22
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Annual Work Plan and Budget" means the annual work plan and budget referred
to in Section I.F of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
3. 
"Applicable Environmental and Social Laws" means, collectively, any law,
regulation or decision of the Borrower relating to environment, human health and
safety, or laws and regulations relating to social issues, including those relating to
labor, which is binding upon or otherwise applicable to the Borrower, the Road
Sector Companies or the Project.
4. 
"ARZ" means AUTOCESTA 
RIJEKA - ZAGREB, Zagreb-Rijeka Motorway
Company established and operating under the laws of the Borrower, a joint-stock
company for construction and managing motorways entered in the Court Register
of the Commercial Court of Zagreb under company registration number:
080211313, personal identification number: 96330310281, or any successor
thereto.
5. 
"ARZ Legislation" means Law on Public Roads published in the Borrower's
Official Gazette No.100/1996 dated November 28, 1996.
6. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
7. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
8. 
"ESCR" means the environmental and social compliance report to be prepared by
the Road Sector Companies to assess such companies' current environmental and
social management systems; environmental and social compliance of investment
planning; existing operation and maintenance activities; and land acquisition and
resettlement practices, all in line with the Applicable Environmental and Social
Laws and the World Bank's Safeguard Policies.
9. 
"ESMS" means the integrated environmental, health and safety and social
management system, implemented by each of the Road Sector Companies, to
manage the environmental and social performance of the Road Sector Companies
in accordance with the Applicable Environmental and Social Laws and the World
Bank's Safeguard Policies.
-23
10. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
11. 
"HG" means Hrvatske ceste, the Croatian Roads Company established and
operating under the laws of the Borrower for the management, construction and
maintenance of its state roads, entered into the Court Register of the Commercial
Court of Zagreb under company registration number: 080391653, personal
identification number: 55545787885, or any successor thereto.
12. 
"HC Legislation" means the Law on Amendments to the Law on Public Roads
published in the Borrower's Official Gazette No. 27/2001 on March 30, 2001.
13. 
"HAC" means Hrvatske Autoceste -
Croatian Motorways established and
operating under the laws of the Borrower as a limited liability company, for
management, construction and maintenance of motorways, entered in the Court
Register of the Commercial Court of Zagreb under the company registration
number: 080391688, personal identification number: 57500462912, or any
successor thereto.
14. 
"HAC Legislation" means the Law on Amendments to the Law on Public Roads
published in the Borrower's Official Gazette No. 27/2001 on March 30, 2001.
15. 
"Inter-Institutional Agreement" means each of the agreements referred to in
Section I.C (c) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement providing the roles and
responsibilities of the Borrower, through MSTI, and each of HC and ARZ in
implementing their respective parts of the Project.
16. 
"KPIs" means key performance indicators.
17. 
"MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance.
18. 
"MSTI" means the Borrower's Ministry of Sea, Transport and Infrastructure or any
successor thereto.
19. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
20. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
March 24, 2017 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines
and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
21. 
"Project Implementation Manual" means the manual referred to under Section I.E
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-24
22. 
"Project Steering Committee" or "PSC" means the committee referred to in
Section I.A and B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
23. 
"RAMS" means road asset management system.
24. 
"Road Sector Company" means each of HC, HAC or ARZ, and "Road Sector
Companies" or "RSCs" means all HC, HAC and ARZ jointly.
25. 
"Retrenchment Framework" means the Borrower's retrenchment framework,
dated March 14, 2017, setting forth the background and rationale for potential
retrenchment (including the alternative solutions to retrenchment analyzed), the
retrenchment methods and procedures (including the options for the selection
criteria for determining the workers to be retrenched), retrenchment management
arrangements (including access to grievance redress), the legal and institutional
framework, the severance payments and additional assistance due to retrenched
workers and monitoring arrangements for the retrenchment process.
26. 
"Retrenchment Payments" means social benefits provided by HAC to its staff for
retrenchment or redundancy under Part B(c)(ii) of the Project, including one-off
voluntary severance payments, 
involuntary and notice payments and related
payment of taxes and other social benefits set forth in HAC Retrenchment Plan
acceptable to the Bank.
27. 
"Retrenchment Plans" means: (a) Retrenchment Plan for HC; (b) Retrenchment
Plan for HAC; and (c) Retrenchment Plan for ARZ, each to be prepared by each
Road Sector Company based on the Retrenchment Framework.
28. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.C (a) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower, through MOF and
MSTI, shall make part of the proceeds of the Loan available to the HAC.
29. 
"Training" means the reasonable expenditures associated with the training,
workshop and study tour participation of staff involved in Project activities, as
specified in the Annual Work Plan and Budget approved by the Bank pursuant to
Section I.F of Schedule 2 to this Agreement (other than expenditures for
consultants' 
services), including travel and subsistence costs for training,
workshop and study tour participants, costs associated with securing the services
of trainers, rental of training and workshop facilities, preparation and reproduction
of training and workshop materials, and other costs directly related to training
course, workshop or study tour preparation and implementation.
30. 
"World Bank's Safeguard Policies" means the environmental and social
operational policies and procedures of the World Bank applicable to the Project,
namely OP/BP 4.01 on Environmental Assessment, valid and in force as of the
date of this Agreement.
-25
31. 
"ZUC" means Zupanijske Uprave za Ceste (County Roads Authority), the
Borrower's County Roads Directorates established for each county under Article
83 of the Borrower's Roads' Act published in the Official Gazette No. 84/2011
dated July 20, 2011.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1 .
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. 
The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
-26
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any
prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of
a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable
upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any
Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
