OFFICIAL 
DOCUMENTS 
LOAN NUMBER 8708-PA 
Loan Agreement 
(Burunga Wastewater Management Project) 
between 
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA 
and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
Agreement dated as of the Signature Date, between REPUBLIC OF PANAMA 
("Borrower'') 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II- LOAN 
2.0 I. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of sixty-five million Dollars, ($65,000,000), as such 
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the 
project described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project"). 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than sixty 
days after the Effective Date. 
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance. 
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the 
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, however, that 
the interest payable shall in no event be less than zero percent (0%) per annum; and 
provided furthermore that, upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount 
of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such 
amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan 
Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty 
days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in 
Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions. 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortiz.ation 
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; and (ii) a change of the 
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable 
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable 
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate 
based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the 
Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted 
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in .the General 
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article N 
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
ARTICLE m -PROJECT 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the 
Borrower shall carry out the Project, through the PCU, in accordance with the provisions 
of Article V of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project 
is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV- REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
4.0 I. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that the 
Cooperation Agreement or any of its provisions has been assigned, amended, abrogated, 
suspended, or waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, 
the implementation and/or the sustainability of the Project. 
4.02. 
The Co-financing Deadline for the effectiveness of the Co-financing Agreement is July 1, 
2017. 
4.03. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the event 
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 60 days 
after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
-2-
ARTICLE V- EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that the 
Operational Manual has been adopted by the PCU. 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date. 
ARTICLE VI- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance. 
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is: 
Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas 
Viceministerio de Economia 
Direcci6n de Financiamiento Publico 
Edificio Ogawa, Via Espana y Calle 52E 
Corregimiento de Bella Vista 
Apartado postal: 0816-02886 
Ciudad de Panama 
Republica de Panama 
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is: 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
248423(MCI) or 
64145(MCI) 
1-202-477-6391 
-3-
AGREED at ?a"arna a~ 1~olo\'1 C. a£ 'fb."°m~;t" behalfoflhe Bank on 
Ji2ne. 3:1 2-0 I :f:: • and on~ alfof e Borrower on 14 ck e' h' o de }I/} . 
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA 
i 
I 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
By 
IAu orized Representative 
Name: ____._fe_
1 
___ 
n_o_b_aj......._C\........_ ....... A ........ L,_fi_c::..-=u--
l 
(:Q f n 111.. j r<'\ a Ylel.§, Q.f" ~r 
Va.novn~ 
I 
Title: 
! 
COUNTERSIGNED 
I 
General Comptroller of the Republic of Panama 
-4-
SCHEDULE I 
Project Description 
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) improve access to sewerage services in selected 
areas of the Borrower's province of Panama Oeste; and (b) strengthen wastewater pollution 
management capacity in key sector institutions of the Borrower. 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part 1. Construction of a New Sewerage System in Burunga 
l. l. 
Construction of a sewerage system throughout the township of Burunga in the Borrower's 
district of Arraijan, including the carrying out of detailed construction designs and a 
sewerage network for wastewater. 
l .2. 
Construction of long inter-domiciliary connections from households to the main sewerage 
network, and closure and decommissioning of existing septic tanks or latrines. 
l.3. 
Carrying out of minor drainage works, road access improvements and other ancillary 
hydraulic works to protect infrastructure from flash floods. 
Part 2. Institutional Strengthening for Sustainable Wastewater Management 
2.1. 
(a) 
Carrying out of technical capacity building activities for the PCU and provision of 
management tools to control water pollution in the Panama Bay, including: (i) the carrying 
out of a water quality baseline study, including an assessment of the expected 
environmental and economic impacts of the PSP; (ii) the carrying out of a technical audit 
of the sewer and drainage system in Panama City; (iii) the design and implementation of a 
real-time hydrological/water quality monitoring system to serve as a basic decision support 
system; (iv) the design and implementation of a hydrodynamic model to measure transport 
of pollutants into the Panama Bay; (v) the preparation of a map locating and classifying 
sensitive coastal and river areas; and (vi) the preparation of an action plan for the 
intervention of critical sewerage areas. 
{b) 
(i) Development of an integrated urban water management plan for an urban river 
basin in the Borrower's province of Panama Oeste, including: (A) a diagnostic of the urban 
river basin; (B) the identification of the key stakeholders; and (C) the participatory 
identification of river basin interventions; and (ii) the implementation of selected activities 
identified in the plan referred to in paragraph 2.1 (b) (i) of this Schedule in pilot areas of 
the basin for demonstrative purposes. 
2.2. 
Strengthening of the PCU's and IDAAN's technical capacity to supervise the operation, 
maintenance and management of wastewater infrastructure in the Panama Bay area, 
through the provision of technical training, short courses, workshops, technical assistance, 
and carrying out of study tours to exchange technical knowledge with experienced 
operators from other geographical regions. 
-5-
2.3. 
Strengthening of PSP's social interventions by raising awareness, training and encouraging 
commitment to the Project's investments among the community-based organizations in the 
township ofBurunga, including: (a) the creation and strengthening of socio-environmental 
community management committees; (b) the development of monitoring exercises to 
evaluate the sanitary conditions of the population; and (c) other community initiatives such 
as sweeping campaigns and cultural and sport events. 
Part 3. Project Management and Administration 
3 .1. 
Carrying out of Project management and administration, including, inter alia: 
(a) 
supervision, quality control, monitoring, inspection and procurement support for 
the works under Part 1 of the Project; and 
(b) 
Project management and administration activities by the PCU, such as fiduciary 
management (including financial audits), procurement, reporting, monitoring and 
evaluation, implementation of the safeguard instruments referred to in Section I.C 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and of the social management strategy referred to 
in Section I.A.2 (a) (v) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
-6-
SCHEDULE2 
Section I. 
Project Execution 
Implementation Arrangements 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
2. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall maintain, throughout Project implementation, the PCU within 
MINSA, responsible for the management, coordination, implementation, 
monitoring and evaluation of the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall ensure that the PCU shall have a structure, responsibilities and 
key staff with functions, experience, responsibilities, qualifications and financing 
acceptable to the Bank as set forth in the Operational Manual. 
(a) 
The Borrower, through the PCU, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of a manual (''Operational Manual"), which shall include, the rules, 
methods, guidelines, standard documents and procedures for the carrying out of the 
Project, including but not limited to the following: (i) a detailed description of 
Project implementation activities and the detailed institutional arrangements for the 
Project; (ii) the Project's administrative, budgeting, accounting, auditing, reporting, 
financial, procurement and disbursement procedures; (iii) the monitoring indicators 
for the Project referred to in Section II.A. I below; (iv) the safeguard instruments 
referred to in paragraph C of this Section; (v) the social management strategy for 
the Project; and (vi) the institutional and administrative mechanisms established to 
ensure inter-institutional coordination. 
(b) 
In the event of conflict between any provision of the Operational Manual and this 
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
( c) 
Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower 
shall not abrogate, amend, suspend, waive or otherwise fail to enforce the 
Operational Manual or any provision thereo( 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions 
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
C. 
Safeguards 
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of the EIA and 
the RPF, including carrying out the specific EMPs included in the EIA and the RAPs 
derived from the RPF, and ensure that the same obligations are appropriately upheld and 
shared under any pertinent contract further entered into for purposes of the Project. 
-7-
2. 
The Borrower shall establish and implement, throughout Project implementation, an easily 
accessible grievance redress mechanism, acceptable to the Bank, to address feedback and 
grievances related to the Project. 
3. 
The Borrower, through the PCU, shall ensure that the terms of reference for any 
consultancies related to the technical assistance provided under the Project, shall be 
acceptable to the Bank following its review thereof and, to that end, such terms of reference 
shall duly incorporate the requirement of the Bank's Safeguard Policies then in force, as 
applied to the advice conveyed through such technical assistance. 
Section II. 
Proiect Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
A. 
Project Reports 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and 
on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the Operational Manual 
and also including the information referred to in Section V .A.3 of this Schedule regarding 
the WWTP. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five ( 45) days after the end of the period 
covered by such report. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of each Project Report, interim 
unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the pertinent calendar semester, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions 
of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall 
cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for 
each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of 
such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement 
A. 
General 
I. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-consulting 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall 
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the 
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
-8-
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section. 
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to the 
corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Sections II, Ill, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services 
I. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The 
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for 
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in 
the Procurement Plan: 
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following additional provisions: 
(i) 
foreign bidders shall not be required to be registered with the Borrower's 
authorities as a prerequisite for bidding; 
(ii) 
no bids shall be rejected, and no provisional awards shall be made at the 
time of bid opening; 
(iii) 
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of bids, 
minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; and 
(iv) 
the invitation to bid shall not require mandatory attendance to a pre-bid 
meeting as a condition to bid; 
(b) 
Shopping; 
(c) 
Framework Agreements, acceptable to the Bank, implemented by the DGCP, 
according to procedures set forth in paragraph 3 .6 of the Procurement Guidelines; 
and 
( d) 
Direct Contracting. 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services 
I . 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality and 
Cost-based Selection. 
-9-
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following methods, other 
than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of consultants' 
services for those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based 
Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed Budget; ( c) Least Cost Selection; ( d) Selection based 
on Consultants' Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting finns; (t) 
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the 
Selection of Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of 
Individual Consultants. 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's 
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
A. 
General 
I. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank Disbursement 
Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as 
made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to 
each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures 
in each Category. 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of· 
Allocated 
Expenditures to be 
(expressed in USD) 
financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(I) 
Works, 
goods, 
consultants' 
47,000,000 
100% 
services, and non-consulting services 
under Part l of the Project 
(2) 
Works, 
goods, 
consultants' 
services, 
non-consulting 
services, 
18,000,000 
100% 
Training and Operating Costs under 
Parts 2 and 3 of the Proiect 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
65,000,000 
-10-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
I. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made: 
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-
end Fee; or 
(b) 
for payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed twelve million Dollars ($12,000,000) may be 
made for payments made prior to this date but on or after the date that falls one 
year prior to the Signature Date, for Eligible Expenditures. 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 202 l. 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings 
A. 
TheWWTP 
l. 
The Borrower shall carry out the construction of the WWTP with due diligence and 
efficiency, and in conformity with appropriate technical, financial, economic, 
environmental and social standards and practices, including with the provisions of the 
applicable EMP and the WWTP Action Plan, all in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
2. 
Without limitation to the provisions of: (a) Section 5.03 of the General Conditions, the 
Borrower shall provide or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds required for 
the construction and operation of the WWTP; and (b) Section 5 .11 (b) of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to visit the construction 
site in which the WWTP is being constructed. 
3. 
The Project Reports referred to in Section II.A. I of this Schedule shall also include 
information concerning the progress made in the construction of the WWTP, including the 
pertinent supervision reports prepared by the Borrower from time to time covering 
technical, social and environmental aspects as provided in the applicable EMP. 
B. 
Household Bathroom Facilities 
I. 
The Borrower shall ensure that CONADES, in close coordination with MINSA, and in a 
manner acceptable to the Bank, promptly provides bathroom facilities to an estimated 
number of eight hundred poor households in the township of Burunga during Project 
implementation to ensure that they can benefit from the sewerage works carried out under 
Part I of the Project. 
-11-
I. 
SCHEDULE3 
Amortization Schedule 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage 
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date 
("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: 
(a) 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment 
Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, 
to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Exoressed as a Percenta2e) 
On each February l 5 and August 15 
Beginning August 15, 2022 
through August 15, 2035 
3.57% 
On February 15, 2036 
3.61% 
2. 
3. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment 
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal 
Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as 
of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original 
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts 
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding 
on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall 
-12-
be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on 
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs l and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency, 
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal 
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the 
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the 
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating 
to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan 
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
-13-
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud 
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated 
October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011. 
2. 
"Bank's Safeguard Policies" means the Bank's operational policies and procedures set 
forth in the Bank's Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04, 4.07, 4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 
4.12, 4.36 and 4.37, as said manual is published under www.WorldBank.org/opmanual". 
3. 
"CAF'' means the Development Bank of Latin America. 
4. 
"Co-financing" means, for purposes of paragraph 16 of the Appendix to the General 
Conditions, an amount of eleven million five hundred thousand United States Dollars 
($11,500,000) to be provided by CAF to assist in financing the Project. 
5. 
"Co-financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and CAF providing for the Co-financing. 
6. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
7. 
"Co-financier" means CAF. 
8. 
"Cooperation Agreement" means the agreement between MINSA and IDAAN, dated June 
18, 2015 which sets forth the respective roles and responsibilities of the parties with regard 
to PSP, including, but not limited to, the conditions for the transfer of PSP' s goods, works, 
and services to IDAAN. 
9. 
"CONADES" means Consejo Nacional de Desarrollo Sostenible, the Borrower's National 
Council for Sustainable Development, an administrative organ created by the Borrower's 
Executive Decree No. 163 of November 25, 1996 of the Ministry of the Presidency, as 
amended to the Signature Date. 
10. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants 
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January 
2011 (revised July 2014). 
11. 
"DGCP" means Direccion General de Contrataciones Publicas, the Borrower's General 
Directorate of Public Procurement, created pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 22, dated 
June· 27, 2006, as such law may be amended from time to time in a manner acceptable to 
the Bank, or its successor, acceptable to the Bank. 
12. 
"EIA" means the Borrower's environmental impact assessment for the Project and 
associated infrastructure, which was disclosed to the public in the PCU's website and in 
the Bank's website on May 31, 2016, and approved by the Borrower's Ministry of the 
-14-
Environment, through Resolution No. IA-122-2016 of July 15, 2016, as such 
environmental impact assessment may be amended from time to time only with the express 
prior consent of the Bank. The EIA includes, inter alia: (a) the plans for the management 
of environmental aspects of the Project and associated infrastructure such as the WWTP; 
(b) the procedures for "chance findings" to protect physical cultural resources; and ( c) 
measures to address any impacts on natural habitats. 
13. 
"EMP" means each of the Borrower's environmental management plans for the Project 
and its area of influence, which are included in the EIA. 
14. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in 
Section II of this Appendix. 
15. 
"IDAAN" means Jnstituto de Acueductos y Alcantarillados Naciona/es, the Borrower's 
national water and sewerage agency established by Law No. 98 of December 29, 1961, as 
amended to the Signature Date, including through Law No. 77 of December 28, 2001 which 
reorganized it as an autonomous public entity with legal personality and patrimony. 
16. 
"MINSA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health. 
17. 
"Operating Costs" means the incremental expenses incurred by the PCU on account of 
Project implementation, supervision, monitoring and evaluation, which may include office 
supplies, reasonable commercial banking charges and fees, vehicle operation and 
maintenance, communication and insurance costs, operation and maintenance of office 
equipment, office administration costs, utilities, travel, and per diem, and remuneration of 
locally contracted PCU employees, none of which would have been incurred in the absence 
of the Project. 
18. 
"Operational Manual" means the Borrower's manual, acceptable to the Bank, and referred 
to in Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from 
time to time in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
19. 
"PCU" means the coordination unit under MIN SA responsible for the implementation of 
the PSP, as established by the Borrower's Executive Decree No. 144 of June 20, 2001, as 
amended by Executive Decree No. 18 of March 3, 2016, or any successor thereto 
acceptable to the Bank. 
20. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and 
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank 
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014). 
21. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated 
November 25, 2016 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to 
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
-15-
22. 
"PSP" means Programa de Saneamiento de Panama, the Borrower's Sanitation Program 
under MINSA. 
23. 
"RPF" means the Borrower's resettlement policy framework for the Project, acceptable to 
the Bank, which was disclosed to the public in the PCU's website on May 27, 2016, and in 
the Bank's website on May 17, 2016, as the same may be amended from time to time only 
with the express prior consent of the Bank. 
24. 
"RAP" means each of the Borrower's resettlement action plans prepared in accordance 
with the RPF. 
25. 
"Signature Date" means the latest of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank 
signed the Loan Agreement, and such definition applies to all references to ''the date of the 
Loan Agreement" in the General Conditions. 
26. 
"Training" means reasonable expenditures (other than for consultants' services and non-
consulting services) incurred by trainers, trainees and workshop participants for reasonable 
travel, room, board, and per diem expenses in connection wi.th training and workshops 
under the Project, including registration fees, facility and equipment rentals. 
27. 
"WWTP" means the Borrower's Arraijan Este wastewater treatment plant, where the 
sewerage from the township of Burunga is expected to be constructed. 
28. 
"WWTP Action Plan" means the Borrower's action plan dated January 16, 2017, 
satisfactory to the Bank for the construction of the WWTP, specifying the dates for bidding, 
contracting, completion of final design, start and completion of works, including 
commissioning for the operation and maintenance phase, as such action plan may be 
amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank. 
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows: 
I. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers 
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below. 
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows: 
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge 
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate 
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee"). 
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan 
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The 
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the Signature Date to the 
respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account 
-16-
or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each 
Payment Date." 
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs 
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above. 
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition 
of"Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly: 
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan 
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.0l(b)." 
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition 
of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01 
(a). 
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition 
of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows: 
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank 
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited 
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the 
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment 
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the 
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of 
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the 
Borrower." 
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the definition 
of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and 
Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest". 
-17-
