OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8767-JO
Loan Agreement
(Innovative Startups Fund Project)
between
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
z 
4 
0 
5s 
,2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8767-JO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
t1 
A4. 
41 
, 2017, between THE HASHEMITE
KINGDOM 
OF 
JORDAN 
("Borro 
r") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby
agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty million United States Dollars ($50,000,000)
("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to this Agreement
("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, however, that the
interest payable shall in no event be less than zero percent (0%) per annum; and provided
furthermore that, upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General
Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance
remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then
the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02
(e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
-2-
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest
rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the
Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project through the JLGC in accordance with the provisions
of Article V of the General Conditions and the Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project
is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
The JLGC's Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the JLGC to perform
any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b) 
JLGC has failed to comply with any of its obligations under the Subsidiary
Agreement.
(c) 
The Articles of Association establishing ISSF have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability
of the JLGC to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d) 
The Management Agreement between ISSF and the ISSF Manager has been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
-3-
adversely the ability of the JLGC to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that either of the
events specified in paragraph (a) and (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement has occurred.
ARTICLE V -EFFECTIVENESS; 
TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Legal Matters consists of the following.
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized by the Borrower and JLGC
and is legally binding upon the Borrower and JLGC in accordance with its terms.
(b) 
The Management Agreement between ISSF and the ISSF Manager has been duly
authorized by ISSF and the ISSF Manager and is legally binding on ISSF and the
ISSF Manager in accordance with its terms.
(c) 
The JLGC has established the ISSF in accordance with the laws and regulations of
the Borrower such that the ISSF has the capacity to perform the functions and
obligations assigned to it under the Project.
(d) 
The Articles of Association and Memorandum of Association have been signed by
JLGC and the Central Bank of Jordan ("CBJ") and are legally binding on JLGC
and the CBJ in accordance with their respective terms.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Planning and International Cooperation.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
Post office Box 555
Amman, 11118
The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Facsimile:
962-6-464 9341
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
-4-
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at 
7wc5 
,oa 
kA 
, as of the day and year first
above written.
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM 
JO DAN
By
Authorized Representative
Name: k44j Mt ( 
FA koutV
Title: 
MK'jr SYj
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
ithorized Representative
Name:
Title: j 
1e_'&ecoAj
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to increase private early stage equity finance for innovative
small and medium enterprises ("SMEs").
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: Equity/Quasi Equity Financing Program
1 .
Establishment and operation of a legal and financial mechanism, namely an Innovative
Startups and SMEs Fund ("ISSF"), designed to leverage both public and private sources of
funding by providing equity and quasi-equity capital financing ("ISSF Investments") to
financial intermediaries and/or to young innovative SMEs ("ISSF Beneficiaries").
2. 
Provision of financing to ISSF Beneficiaries to cover costs incurred by them associated
with starting up and commercializing their business activities, including, inter alia, costs
related to registering and maintaining intellectual property rights, field testing of products
in the new markets, and back office support.
Part B: Deal flow creation support
Provision of financing to selected professional support providers ("Eligible Professional
Services Providers"), including, inter alia, accelerators, incubators and business
development support entities to implement: (1) incubation and acceleration programs for
entrepreneurs; (2) investment readiness and business development services for young and
established SMEs; and (3) establishment and maintenance of Jordanian-based business
angel groups, training and mentoring of angel group members and managers.
Part C: Proiect Management, Coordination and Monitoring and Evaluation
Provision of technical advisory services and material assistance to support the
management, coordination, and monitoring and evaluation of the Project, and to cover the
Project- related management and Operating Costs, including costs incurred by JLGC in
setting up ISSF, and Incremental Fees.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section 1. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements.
1. 
The Borrower, through its Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation, shall:
(a) 
cause the Project to be carried out by JLGC (the "Project Implementing Entity");
(b) 
no later than forty-five (45) days from the Effective Date, enter into a tripartite
agreement with the Central Bank of Jordan ("CBJ") and JLGC, whereby the CBJ
agrees to provide financing to JLGC in an amount equivalent to thirteen million
eight hundred eighty thousand United States Dollars ($13,880,000) ("Co-
Financing") from CBJ's own resources, on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank, to cover the projected counterpart financing requirements; and
(c) 
establish and maintain throughout the life of the Project a Monitoring Committee
to monitor progress and implementation of the Project. The Monitoring Committee
shall include representatives, inter alia, of JLGC, Ministry of Planning and
International Cooperation, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Industry and Trade,
and CBJ.
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that JLGC:
(a) 
implements the Project and establishes and maintains throughout the life of the
Project an Implementation Group, with a mandate, terms of reference and a
composition acceptable to the Bank;
(b) 
is responsible for overall coordination of the Project and overall management of
its activities, including monitoring and evaluation, fiduciary and safeguards
management, and reporting requirements;
(c) 
establishes and maintains the ISSF throughout the life of the Project, in a form and
with functions and management satisfactory to the Bank and having the capacity
to perform its functions under Parts A and B of the Project;
(d) 
in accordance with the criteria established in the POM and acceptable to the Bank,
and no later than ninety (90) days from the Effective Date, will cause ISSF to
recruit a manager of ISSF ("ISSF Manager"), with terms of reference and
qualifications satisfactory to the Bank, to manage ISSF's investment activities in
accordance with the Project Operations Manual;
(e) 
no later than ninety (90) days from the Effective Date, recruits a senior accountant
to assist with execution of the Project;
-7-
(f) 
no later than one hundred eighty (180) days from the Effective Date, procures,
installs and adopts an Enterprise Resource Planning ("ERP") or other accounting
software system for project accounting, budgeting and reporting within ISSF and
ensures that the ISSF finance and accounting staff are fully trained in the adopted
software system;
(g) 
selects a Board of Directors for ISSF, in a form, composition and with functions
satisfactory to the Bank, and comprising individuals with expertise in private
sector industry, equity finance, legal, and/or accountancy background with the
Director General of JLGC acting as the Chairman of the Board;
(h) 
causes ISSF to hire an external auditor of ISSF with qualifications and terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank no later than six (6) months after the Effective
Date and shall not change said external auditor or revise or amend its terms of
reference, throughout the life of the Project, without the approval of the Bank;
(i) 
causes ISSF to hire a consultancy firm- or extend the scope of the external auditor
to perform an annual audit of the ISSF Beneficiaries, to ensure that the selection
criteria set forth in the POM are met and the necessary due diligence has been
carried out ("Agreed Upon Procedures Review");
(j) 
Within one hundred eighty (180) days from Effective Date, causes the Board of
Directors of ISSF to establish and maintain the Investment Committee in a form
and with functions, staffing, resources, terms of reference and qualifications
satisfactory to the Bank. The Investment Committee shall be chaired by one of the
members of the Board of Directors (other than the Chairman of JLGC) and consist
of the ISSF Manager and private sector individuals selected by the Board of
Directors of ISSF, approved by JLGC and acceptable to the Bank; and
(k) 
causes ISSF to enter into a management agreement with ISSF Manager
("Management Agreement") on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank,
which shall include, inter alia, the following:
(i) 
without prejudice to the provisions of subparagraph 2(b) above, the ISSF
Manager shall: (A) recruit and maintain, throughout the life of the Project,
the necessary personnel, with mandate, terms of reference and
composition (including a financial officer, an accountant and an internal
auditor) acceptable to the Bank; and (B) be responsible for carrying out
coordination of the Project and day-to-day management of its activities,
including 
monitoring 
and 
evaluation, 
fiduciary 
and 
safeguards
management, and reporting requirements;
(ii) 
the ISSF Manager shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project
Operations Manual and shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or
waive any provision of the Project Operations Manual without the prior
approval of the Bank;
-8-
(iii) 
The ISSF Manager shall maintain, throughout Project implementation,
pre-screening, 
evaluation 
and 
supervision 
procedures 
for 
ISSF
Investments, acceptable to the Bank; and
(iv) 
The ISSF Manager shall select Eligible Professional Services Providers
for implementing Part B of the Project, in accordance with the Bank-
approved guidelines and eligibility criteria, and as reflected in the POM,
to carry out Part B of the Project.
3. 
For the purposes of Project implementation, the Borrower shall ensure that:
(a) 
JLGC enters into a Project Agreement with the Bank;
(b) 
JLGC ensures that ISSF carries out the Project in accordance with the Project
Operations Manual and the Project Agreement and does not amend, suspend,
abrogate, repeal or waive any provision of the Project Operations Manual without
the prior approval of the Bank; and
(c) 
JLGC monitors and manages the Designated Account in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement, the Project Agreement and the POM.
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement
1 .
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the
Loan available to JLGC under a subsidiary agreement between the Borrower and JLGC
("Subsidiary Agreement"), under terms and conditions approved by the Bank, which shall
include the following:
(a) 
JLGC shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of this
Agreement, the Project Agreement and the POM;
(b) 
JLGC shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such a manner
as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan;
(c) 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, JLGC or the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions;
(d) 
JLGC shall not be liable to the Borrower for any Loan Payments, and shall not be
liable to the Borrower for financial losses from ISSF Investments;
(e) 
JLGC shall return any profits from ISSF Investments to the Borrower twelve (12)
years after the Closing Date or at such later date as the Borrower and JLGC shall
agree;
(f) 
JLGC shall cause the Board of Directors of ISSF to make any Agreed Exits in
accordance with the terms, conditions and methods set forth in the POM, and shall
reinvest any amounts arising from such Agreed Exits in further ISSF Investments
in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, the Project Agreement and
-9-
the POM, and shall return any amounts remaining from such Agreed Exits to the
Borrower twelve (12) years after the Closing Date or at such later date as the
Borrower and JLGC shall agree; and
(g) 
to facilitate the carrying out of Parts A and B of the Project, JLGC shall:
(i) 
establish and maintain the ISSF in accordance with the provisions of this
Agreement, the Project Agreement and the POM; and
(ii) 
ensure that any key changes to the investment strategies pursued by the
Board of Directors of ISSF or ISSF Manager receive prior approval by the
Bank, JLGC and the Investment Committee.
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as
to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D. 
ISSF Sub-Financing
1. 
The Borrower, through JLGC, shall ensure that ISSF selects ISSF Beneficiaries and
approves ISSF Investments and the related ISSF Sub-financing in accordance with the
eligibility criteria, terms and investment guidelines set forth in the Project Operations
Manual, including the requirements that each ISSF Beneficiary must:
(a) 
have physical operational presence in the Borrower's territory and, if the ISSF
Beneficiary is a financial intermediary, invest in companies physically located in
the Borrower's territory;
(b) 
not have an adverse or disclaimer audit opinion in the last three years;
(c) 
not be under litigation or on a list of banned or suspended companies by JLGC or
by the Bank; and
(d) 
not have any key personnel with a criminal record or who are on any list of banned
or suspended individuals by JLGC or by the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure, through JLGC, that ISSF provides ISSF Sub-Financing to ISSF
Beneficiaries in accordance with the eligibility criteria, procedures and investment
guidelines acceptable to the Bank and included in the POM, which shall include the
following:
-10-
(a) 
the choice of ISSF Beneficiaries and the selection of investment activities and
sectors of activity shall be undertaken according to industry best practices and on
the basis of principles of good governance, equity and transparency; and
(b) 
no investment activity or sector of activity shall benefit from funding under the
Project if it belongs to the negative list of activities or sectors of activity deemed
ineligible for support under the Project and specified in the ESMF and POM.
3. 
To facilitate the carrying out of Part A(1) of the Project, the Borrower shall cause JLGC to
ensure that each ISSF Sub-financing Agreement entered into between the ISSF and each
ISSF Beneficiary includes provisions that ensure that the ISSF obtains rights adequate to
protect its interests and those of JLGC, the Borrower, and the Bank, including the right to:
(a) 
terminate the right of the ISSF Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the ISSF Sub-
financing, or obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount of the ISSF Sub-
financing received, upon the ISSF Beneficiary's failure to perform any of its
obligations under the ISSF Sub-financing Agreement; and
(b) 
require each ISSF Beneficiary to:
(i) 
carry out its operations with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with sound technical, economic, financial, managerial,
environmental and social standards (including Safeguards Instruments)
and practices, all satisfactory to the Bank, including in accordance with
the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients
of loan proceeds other than the Borrower;
(ii) 
provide, promptly as needed, the resources required for the purpose of the
ISSF Sub-financing;
(iii) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate its operations, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the
Bank;
(iv) 
maintain a financial management system and prepare financial statements
in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable
to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect its operations, resources
and expenditures;
(v) 
have such financial statements audited by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards
acceptable to the Bank, and promptly furnish the statements as so audited
to the ISSF and, if so requested, the Bank;
(vi) 
enable the ISSF and the Bank to inspect the ISSF Beneficiary's operations
and any relevant records and documents; and
-11-
(vii) 
prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such information as
the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably request relating to the
foregoing.
4. 
The Borrower shall cause JLGC to ensure that ISSF shall exercise the rights and carry out
the obligations of the ISSF under each ISSF Sub-financing Agreement in such manner as
to protect the interests of JLGC, the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes
of the Loan.
5. 
The Borrower shall cause JLGC to ensure that the ISSF shall not assign, amend, terminate,
abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any ISSF Sub-financing Agreement or any of its
provisions, except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree.
E. 
Investment Support Financing
To facilitate the carrying out of Part A(2) of the Project, the Borrower, through JLGC, shall ensure
that:
I. 
the ISSF provides Investment Support Financing to ISSF Beneficiaries, selected in
accordance with the eligibility criteria and terms set forth in the Project Operations Manual,
and subject to Investment Committee's review, recommendation/ approval; and
2. 
an Investment Support Financing Agreement is entered into between ISSF and each ISSF
Beneficiary, in accordance with terms and conditions set forth in the Project Operations
Manual.
F. 
Deal Flow Creation Financing
To facilitate the carrying out of Part B of the Project, the Borrower, through JLGC, shall ensure
that:
1. 
the ISSF provides Deal Flow Creation Financing to Eligible Professional Services
Providers, selected in accordance with the eligibility criteria and terms set forth in the
Project Operations Manual; and
2. 
a Deal Flow Creation Financing Agreement is entered into between ISSF and each Eligible
Professional Services Provider, in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the
Project Operations Manual.
G. 
Safeguards.
I. 
The Borrower shall cause JLGC to monitor on a continuing basis the implementation of
the Safeguard Instruments and ensure that the Project is executed in strict accordance with
such Safeguard Instruments, and, upon the occurrence of any event or condition likely to
interrupt or interfere with the smooth implementation of the Safeguard Instruments, the
Borrower shall cause JLGC to act promptly to deal with or address such event or condition,
and inform the Borrower and the Bank accordingly.
2. 
For the purposes of any ISSF Investment or other activity under the Project, and prior to
implementation thereof, the Borrower shall ensure that any plan, action plan, fact sheet or
-12-
other instrument required in terms of any one or more of the Safeguard Instruments, shall
have been duly:
(a) 
prepared in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, and, except as otherwise
agreed with the Bank, submitted to the Bank for review and approval, and
(b) 
thereafter adopted and publicly disclosed.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause JLGC to take all measures necessary on its part to regularly
collect, compile, and submit to the Bank, on an annual basis, reports on the status of
compliance with the Safeguard Instruments, giving details of:
(a) 
measures taken in furtherance of such Safeguard Instruments;
(b) 
any event or condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the smooth
implementation of such Safeguard Instruments; and
(c) 
remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such event or condition.
4. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower shall not amend, waive
or abrogate, or cause to be amended, waived or abrogated, any provision of the Safeguard
Instruments.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
I. 
The Borrower shall cause JLGC to monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions, and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the Project
Operations Manual. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester,
and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the
period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
I. 
The Borrower shall cause both JLGC and ISSF to maintain or cause to be maintained a
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the
General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall cause
JLGC and ISSF to prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after
the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project
covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through JLGC, shall cause ISSF to have the Project's Financial Statements
audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of ISSF.
-13-
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not
later than six months after the end of such period.
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that each audit referred to in the preceding paragraph shall
include an audit of Project Accounts, and of Eligible Expenditures, conducted in
accordance with guidelines and modalities agreed with the Bank, and reflected in the
external auditor's terms of reference.
Section III. 
Procurement
All goods, works, non-consulting services and consulting services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in the World Bank Procurement Regulations for Borrowers
under Investment Project Financing dated July 1, 2016 ("Procurement Regulations"), and the
provisions of the Recipient's procurement plan for the Project ("Procurement Plan") dated
May 11, 2017 provided for under Section IV of the Procurement Regulations, as the same may be
updated from time to time in agreement with the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank Disbursement
Guidelines for Projects" dated February 1, 2017, as revised from time to time by the Bank
and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures
in each Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) ISSF Investments for Part 
46,875,000 
98%
A(1) of the Project, goods,
non-consulting 
services,
consulting services 
and
Training under Part B
(2) Goods, 
non-consulting 
3,000,000 
50%
services, 
consulting
services 
and 
Training
under Part A(2) and Part
C, Project Operating Costs
and Incremental Fees
-14-
(3) Front-end Fee 
125,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 
2.03 
of 
this
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
50,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made:
(a) 
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed $500,000 may be made for payments, previously agreed with
the Bank, made prior to this date but on or after May 11, 2017 for Eligible
Expenditures; and
(b) 
under Category 1, unless the Chief Financial Officer has been hired by ISSF.
2. 
The Closing Date is November 30, 2023.
-15-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying:
(a) the Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the
Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted,
as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which
a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning May 15, 2022 
1.64%
through November 15, 2051
On May 15, 2052 
1.60%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as
of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding
on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall
be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
-16-
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (a) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating
to the Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-17-
APPENDIX
Section 1. 
Definitions
1. 
"Agreed Exit" means any exit from any ISSF Investment in accordance with the terms,
conditions and methods set forth in the POM.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated
October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
3. 
"Articles of Association" means the Articles of Association of ISSF establishing ISSF as
a Jordanian Private Shareholding Company.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
5. 
"Deal Flow Creation Financing" means a payment made out of the proceeds of the Loan
to an Eligible Professional Services Provider under Part B of the Project.
6. 
"Deal Flow Creation Financing Agreement" means an agreement between the ISSF and an
Eligible Professional Services Provider pursuant to Schedule 2, Section 1, Part F, paragraph
2 of this Agreement describing the rights, duties and responsibilities of each party, which
shall comply with the provisions of this Agreement, the Project Agreement and the POM,
and the format of which shall be set forth in the POM.
7. 
"Designated Account" means the designated account opened by JLGC for the purposes of
the Project, into which amounts withdrawn from the Loan will be deposited, in accordance
with the provisions of the General Conditions and the Disbursement Guidelines.
8. 
"Disbursement Guidelines" means the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for
Projects" dated February 1, 2017.
9. 
"Eligible Professional Services Provider" means a professional support provider,
including, inter alia, accelerators, incubators, and business development support entities,
which has met the eligible criteria set forth in the POM to be eligible for Deal Flow
Creation Financing under Part B of the Project.
10. 
"Environmental 
and 
Social 
Management 
Framework" 
or "ESMF" means 
the
Environmental and Social Management Framework, dated May 3, 2017, issued by or on
behalf of the Borrower and thereafter publicly disclosed, providing an analysis of potential
impacts on the human and biophysical environment associated with the Project, an
assessment of the risks and likelihood of potential adverse social and environmental
impacts, and a checklist of plans and measures designed to prevent, manage or mitigate
such potential adverse impacts.
I1. 
"Implementation Group" means the group established within JLGC assigned to work on
implementation of the Project, comprising of civil servants including the Project Director,
-18-
Project Coordinator, and other specialized staff, and consultants that may be specifically
retained to work on Project implementation.
12. 
"Incremental Fees" means legal fees directly related and limited to the costs of establishing
ISSF and preparation of any legal opinions as may be requested by the Bank during
implementation of the Project, all based on budgets acceptable to the Bank, but excluding
any fees arising from or related to disputes, arbitration, mediation, litigation or settlement.
13. 
"Innovative Startup and SMEs Fund," or "ISSF" means a holding company to be
established for the Project by JLGC as a subsidiary of JLGC and the Central Bank of Jordan
under the laws of the Borrower for the purpose of making ISSF Investments and holding
the equity interests in such ISSF Investments, referred to in Section I.B. 1(g) of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
14. 
"Investment Committee" means the investment committee referred to in Section 1.A.2(j)of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, responsible for review and approval of ISSF Investments.
15. 
"Investment Support Financing" means a payment made out of the proceeds of the Loan
to an ISSF Beneficiary under Part A(2) of the Project.
16. 
"Investment Support Financing Agreement" means an agreement between the ISSF and an
ISSF Beneficiary pursuant to Schedule 2, Section I, Part E, paragraph 2 of this Agreement
describing the rights, duties and responsibilities of each party, which shall comply with the
provisions of this Agreement, the Project Agreement and the POM, and the format of which
shall be set forth in the POM.
17. 
"ISSF Investment" means equity investment made by the ISSF in an ISSF Beneficiary
pursuant to Section I(D) of Schedule 2 which has met the eligibility criteria set forth in the
POM.
18. 
"ISSF Beneficiary" means any Financial Intermediary, an innovative SME, or a new
startup which has met the eligible criteria set forth in Section 1(D) of Schedule 2 and the
POM to be eligible for an ISSF Sub-financing or Investment Support Financing under Part
A of the Project.
19. 
"ISSF Manager" means a physical or legal person selected to manage the ISSF and referred
to in Section I.A.2(d) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
20. 
"ISSF Management Fee" means a fee for the administration expenses incurred by the ISSF
Manager in relation to the Project, as determined and defined in the detailed budget setting
out an analysis of, and calculation for the ISSF Management Fee, acceptable to the World
Bank, as such budget may be updated from time to time by agreement between the ISSF
Manager, JLGC and the Bank.
21. 
"ISSF Sub-financing" means a payment made out of the proceeds of the Loan to an ISSF
Beneficiary in exchange for an ISSF Investment.
-19-
22. 
"ISSF Sub-financing Agreement" means an agreement between the ISSF and an ISSF
Beneficiary pursuant to Schedule 2, Section 1, Part D, paragraph 3 of this Agreement,
describing the rights, duties and responsibilities of each party, which shall comply with the
provisions of this Agreement, the Project Agreement and the POM, and the format of which
shall be set forth in the POM.
23. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
24. 
"JLGC" or "Project Implementing Entity" means the legal entity established pursuant to
Jordan's Company's Law No. 22, 1994, under Registration No. 242, by the Borrower
pursuant to the Project Implementing Entity's Legislation, or any legal successor thereto.
25. 
"JLGC's Legislation" means Articles of Association of JLGC executed under Jordan's
Company's Law No. 22 of 1997
26. 
"Management Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 1.A.2(k)of Schedule
2 to this Agreement, to be entered into between ISSF and ISSF Manager, outlining
management responsibilities for ISSF the purpose of Parts A and B of the Project.
27. 
"Memorandum of Association" means the Memorandum of Association of ISSF
establishing ISSF as a Jordanian Private Shareholding Company.
28. 
"Operating Costs" means the reasonable incremental expenses incurred on account of
Project implementation by ISSF and JLGC, management and monitoring, including office
supplies, the cost of publication of procurement notices, vehicle operation, office and
equipment maintenance and repair, communication, translation and interpretation, travel
and supervision costs, and other miscellaneous costs directly associated with Project, as
determined by the Bank but excluding salaries of civil servants and employees of the
Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity.
29. 
"Procurement Regulations" means the "Procurement Regulations for Borrowers under
Investment Project Financing (IPF) dated July 1, 2016 of Goods, Non-consulting Services,
and Consulting Services.
30. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated May
11, 2017 and referred to in Section IV of the Procurement Regulations, as the same shall
be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
31. 
"Project Operations Manual" or "POM" means the project operations manual, acceptable
to the Bank setting forth procedures and requirements for carrying out the Project, and
adopted by the Project Implementing Entity, as the same may be amended from time to
time with the agreement of the Bank.
32. 
"Safeguard Instruments" means any one or more of the ESMF and any other safeguard
instrument derived therefrom or adopted pursuant thereto.
-20-
33. 
"SME" means a small or medium-size enterprise.
34. 
"Startup" means any SME in the process of becoming operational or any existing SME that
has yet to sell its product or service commercially, as set forth in the POM.
35. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section L.B of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan
available to the JLGC.
36. 
"Training" means expenditures for the Project related to study tours, training courses,
seminars, workshops and other training activities not included under goods or service
providers' contracts, including costs of training materials, space and equipment rental,
travel and per diem costs of trainees and trainers.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually
in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition
of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly:
.l9. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01
(a).
-21-
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition
of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and
Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
