OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8789-GA
Loan Agreement
(Fiscal Consolidation and Inclusive Growth Development Policy Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF GABON
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
VvLxn-kA 
1 7, 2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between REPUBLIC OF GABON ("Borrower") and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the
purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this
Agreement). The Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (i) the
actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in Section
I of Schedule I to this Agreement; and (ii) the Borrower's maintenance of an adequate
macroeconomic policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of one hundred and sixty-eight million
seven hundred thousand Euro (EUR 168,700,000), as such amount may be converted from
time to time through a Currency Conversion ("Loan").
2.02. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.04. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Fixed Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
2.07. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.05 of the General Conditions, the
Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of
this Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this end,
and further to Section 5.05 of the General Conditions:
06-K
-2-
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework and the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program; and
(b) 
without limitation upon paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall promptly
inform the Bank of any situation that would have the effect of materially reversing
the objectives of the Program or any action taken under the Program including any
action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension shall be that a situation has arisen which shall make
it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be carried out.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration shall be that the event specified in Section 4.01 of
this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 60 days after notice of the event
has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness shall be that the Bank is satisfied with the
progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program and with the adequacy of
the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister responsible for economy.
6.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower's address is:
Ministere de 1'Economie, de la Prospective et de la Programmation du
Developpement Durable,
BP 747
Libreville
Gabonese Republic; and
(b) 
the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile:
5409 GO 
(241) 77 35 90
-3-
6.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) 
the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
REPUBLIC OF GABON
By
Authorized Representative
Name: -tyln 
6 
I. 
,CS
Title: 14 
j 
-
%-OZ- 
C kf' i7
Date: tvJ,%lg 
1-71 
~7
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
V Autloriz 
resentative
Name: 
LfI't A 
&V 
a.
Title: A.-~
Date: A/j/ 
17, 
1,.,
-4-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
1. 
To reduce the amount of tax expenditures, the Borrower's minister responsible for
economy has: (a) issued regulations (arrtjs), within the framework of the Fight against
La Vie Chere Program, which applies: (i) a full exemption of custom duties and taxes to
only 42 products from the list of basic goods, (ii) a rate of five percent on 116 additional
products from the list of basic goods; and (b) revised the 2017 budget law to specify that
(i) all exemptions from taxation on cross-border transactions require authorization in the
budget law and must be accompanied by estimates of revenue forgone; 
and
(ii) discretionary administrative exemptions have been suppressed.
2. 
To stabilize the wage bill in the short-term, the Borrower's prime minister has issued a
circular to all its ministries prohibiting all recruitments across administrations, including
agencies, departments and state-owned enterprises, for a period of twelve (12) months,
excepting only its ministries responsible for health, national education, and defense for
which hiring will be on a case-by-case basis.
3. 
To improve the efficiency of procurement practices, the Borrower's council of ministers
has adopted a Draft Law on Public Procurement in line with its PFM framework, which
inter alia clarifies stakeholders' responsibilities and better enforces the provisions on the
use of single sourcing.
4. 
In order to streamline business registration and spur business creation, the Borrower's
minister responsible for investment promotion has issued a regulation (arrtj) establishing
a one-stop shop for business registration under its national agency responsible for
investment promotion and said one-stop shop has been staffed by transfer of
representatives of its national agencies responsible for investment promotion, enterprise
and collateral registry, and tax administration to said one-stop shop.
5. 
In order to strengthen information, communication and technology services, the
Borrower's council of ministers has adopted: (a) the Draft Law on the Regulation of
Electronic Communications and (b) the Draft Law on Electronic Transactions, stipulating
provisions for a more competitive ICT sector and a more secured electronic transactions.
6. 
In order to prioritize primary healthcare and make its delivery more efficient, the
Borrower's minister responsible for health has issued a regulation (arroti) specifying the
key design characteristics of the performance-based financing (PBF) reform to be applied
in Selected Health Regions.
7. 
To ensure that PBF is effective, the Borrower's minister responsible for budget has issued
a regulation (arrtj) that establishes a dedicated PBF account for annual allocations and
provides greater financial autonomy to health service providers (sanitaires structures).
-5-
8. 
To make social protection services better targeted and more streamlined, Borrower's
council of ministers has adopted: (a) a draft law to change the operational definition of
poor Gabonese (GEF) taking into consideration, inter alia, household composition and the
poverty line; and (b) a decree simplifying the social security and welfare system, including
the specification of the priority target groups for monetary transfers and fee exemptions as
well as the amounts and terms of transfers and exemptions.
9. 
In order to increase the financial autonomy and accountability for the delivery of safety
nets and non-contributory health insurance, the Borrower's: (a) minister responsible for
social development has 
signed, with CNAMGS, an annual performance contract
specifying objectives in terms of results and resources; and (b) parliament has introduced
a Special Solidarity Contribution (SSC) to finance the health insurance for the GEF.
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by
notice to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the Front-
end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the Borrower may make
withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end
is set out in the table below:
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan Tranche
Allocated
(expressed in Euro)
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 
168,278,250
(2) Front-end Fee 
421,750
(3) Amount due pursuant to Section 
0
4.05 (c) of the General
Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
168,700,000
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.
1. 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is
satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with the adequacy
of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
-6-
D. 
Deposit of Loan Amounts.
1. 
The Borrower shall open a Deposit Account, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first request
for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain the following two deposit
accounts on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank:
(a) 
a deposit account in Euro ("Foreign Currency Deposit Account"); and
(b) 
a deposit account in XAF ("Local Currency Deposit Account").
2. 
All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Foreign
Currency Deposit Account. Upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into the Foreign
Currency Deposit Account, the Borrower shall deposit an equivalent amount into the Local
Currency Deposit Account. All amounts withdrawn from the Local Currency Deposit
Account shall be used exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
E. 
Audit. Upon the Bank's request, the Borrower shall:
1. 
have the Deposit Accounts audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank;
2. 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case, not later than four months after
the date of the Bank's request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, and make such report
publicly available in a timely fashion and in a manner acceptable to the Bank; and
3. 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Accounts and their audit
as the Bank shall reasonably request.
F. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is October 31, 2018.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date ("Installment Share").
Level Principal Repayments'
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
On each April 15 and October 15
Beginning April 15, 2023 
3.33%
through April 15, 2037
On October 15, 2037 
3.43%
The determination of the principal amounts of the Loan repayable on each Principal Payment Date is
made in accordance with Section 3.03 of the General Conditions.
-8-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"CNAMGS" means Caisse nationale d'assurance maladie et de garantie sociale, the
Borrower's national fund for health insurance and social warranty.
2. 
"Deposit Accounts" means both the Foreign Currency Deposit Account and the Local
Currency Deposit Account.
3. 
"Draft Law on Electronic Transactions" means the Borrower's draft loi n. 
/2017portant
riglementation des communications ilectroniques en Ripublique Gabonaise, as adopted
by the Borrower's council of ministers on June 21, 2017.
4. 
"Draft Law on Public Procurement" means the Borrower's draft ordonnance n. 
/PR
portant code des marches public, as adopted by the Borrower's council of ministers on
September 13, 2017.
5. 
"Draft Law on the Regulation of Electronic Communications" means loi n. 
/2017
portant reglementation des transactions dlectroniques en Ripublique Gabonaise as
adopted by the Borrower's council of ministers on June 21, 2017.
6. 
"Fight against La Vie Chere Program" means the program established and operationalized
pursuant to the Borrower's ArrOtj n. 0243/MEEDD/SG/DGCC du 23 avril 2013 soumettant
les produits importes de consommation courante aux rdgimes de blocage et de liberti
contr6lie de prix and Arrtd n. 00075 7/MEPIP/SG du 24 octobre 2014 portant crdation,
attributions, et organisation de la cellule d'Analyse et de prospective sur la vie chere.
7. 
"Foreign Currency Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Part E.1(a) of
Section II of Schedule I to this Agreement.
8. 
"GEF" means Gabonais Economiquement Faible, a categorization of a demographic subset
of the Borrower's population pursuant to the draft law modifying Article 11 of Loi
n. 034/2007 du 28 Janvier 2008 portant ratification de l'ordonnance n. 022/PR/2007 du 21
Aout 2007 instituant un Rfgime Obligatoire d'Assurance Maladie et de Garantie Sociale
en Ripublique Gabonaise, as adopted by the Borrower's council of ministers on September
13, 2017.
9. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Development Policy Financing", dated July 14,
2017.
10. 
"Local Currency Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Part E. 1(b) of Section
II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
11. 
"PFM" means public finance management.
12. 
"Program" means: the program of objectives, policies, and actions set forth or referred to
in the letter dated September 19, 2017 from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the
-9-
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from
the Bank in support of the Program during its execution and comprising actions taken,
including those set forth in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and actions to be
taken consistent with the program's objectives.
13. 
"Selected Health Regions" means the Borrower's west, central, south central and south
health regions and two health departments (Libreville I and Libreville 2) within the
Borrower's Libreville-Owendo health region.
14. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the date of the Loan
Agreement" in the General Conditions.
15. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category
entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of
Schedule I to this Agreement.
16. 
"Special Solidarity Contribution" or "SSC" means the contribution referred to in the
Borrower's Journal Officiel de la Rdpublique Gabonaise, 9 janvier 2017- N.331 Bis
Spicial.
17. 
"XAF" means the local currency of the Borrower.
064
