OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8737-IN
Loan Agreement
(Shared Infrastructure for Solar Parks Project)
between
INDIA RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY LTD.
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated (O 
iEtb t. 
)o 
,2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8737-IN
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated fJy& 
*1* 
2017, between INDIA RENEWABLE ENERGY
DEVELOMOPENT 
AGENCY 
LTD. 
(variously 
"Borrower" 
or 
"IREDA") 
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT CBank"). The
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS.
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of seventy five million United States Dollars
(USD 75,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"),
to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, however, that
the interest payable shall in no event be less than zero percent (0%) per annum; and
provided furthermore that, upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount
of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such
amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the
General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan
Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty
days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in
Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.05. The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
-2-
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest
rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the
Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.09. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit (as
said terms arc defined in sub-paragraphs (bXii) and (bXiii) of this Section), the
Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of one half of one percent
(0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-
paragraph (bXi) of this Section) for each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The
Exposure Surcharge (if any) shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each
Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during which
the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit, the product of:
(A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the ratio of all (or, if the Bank
so determines, a portion) of the Loan to the aggregate amount of all (or the
-3-
equivalent portions) of the loans made by the Bank to the Borrower, the
Guarantor and to other borrowers guaranteed by the Guarantor that are
also subject to an exposure surcharge, as said excess and ratio are
reasonably determined from time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the Bank's
financial exposure to the Guarantor which, if exceeded, would subject the
Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined from time to time by the
Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total financial
exposure to the Guarantor, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
ARTICLE HI -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project
is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: any of the Implementing
Agencies' Enabling Legal Framework has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of any such Implementing
Agency to perform any of its obligations under its respective Sub-Loan Agreement
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the event
specified in Section 4.01 above occurs.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that at least
one Sub-Loan Agreement has been executed by and between the Borrower and one
Implementing Agency, and the Sub-Loan Agreement has become effective is accordance
with its terms.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Chairman and Managing Director or its Director of
Finance.
-4-
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Chairman & Managing Director
IREDA Corporate Office
3-d Floor, August Kranti Bhawan
Bhikaiji Cama Place
New Delhi 110 0066
India
Facsimile:
+91-11-26717416
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Facsimile:
1-202-477-6391
AGREED at t f 
F LM 
.% India, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA RENEWABLE ENERGY
DEVELOMPENT AGENCY LTD.
By
Authorized Representative
Name: r .-
Title:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEXOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name:4614A.M- A. Abo tcA1ii
Title: AdJC4 
0O&1.f4
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to increase solar generation capacity through the
establishment of large-scale solar parks in the country.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Cmnonent 1: Shared Infrastructure for Solar Parks
Providing Sub-Loans to Implementing Agencies of Selected States for the planning and
construction of shared infrastructure facilities within their Selected Solar Parks (e.g. access
roads, water supply and drainage, telecommunications facilities, evacuation and allied
infrastructure), as well as transmission lines connecting the internal pooling stations to the
external sub-stations of these Selected Solar Parks.
CorDg=t2: Technical Assistance
(a) 
Strengthening the institutional capacity of IREDA, the State Nodal Agencies in the
Selected States where Selected Solar Parks are located, as well as the respective
Implementing Agencies, in order to build their core competencies in human
resource and business planning, project monitoring, procurement and contract
management, 
environmental 
and 
social 
safeguards 
monitoring 
and
implementation, financial management, and the assimilation/integration of
information technology in their daily operations.
(b) 
Developing the pipeline of solar parks projects through supporting, inter alia, pre-
feasibility studies, site identification, social and environmental assessment,
techno-commercial studies, and other preparatory activities.
(c) 
Providing technical assistance to IREDA, the State Nodal Agencies and the
Implementing Agencies for, inter alia, the identification of sectoral needs, the
dissemination of knowledge, and the piloting of innovative financial solutions in
order to successfully achieve solar energy targets by 2022.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section L 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Operations Manual
1. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
prepare, approve and adopt an Operations Manual in a manner and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, and thereafter, implement the Project, and cause the
Implementing Agencies to implement the Project activities in respect of their
Selected Solar Parks, in accordance with the provisions of the Operations Manual,
and
(b) 
refrain from materially and/or substantially amending, revising, waiving, voiding,
suspending or abrogating, any provision of the Operations Manual, whether in
whole or in part, without the prior written agreement of the Bank.
2. 
In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of the Operations Manual and
those of this Agreement, the latter shall govern.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Selection of Solar Parks and Sub-Loan Agreements
For purposes of carrying out Component I of the Project, the Borrower shall invite
prospective Implementing Agencies from Selected States to submit Sub-Loan applications,
pursuant to the procedures set forth in the Operations Manual, for the financing of Eligible
Shared Infrastructure in their respective solar parks.
2. 
Upon the Borrower's receipt of a Sub-loan application submitted in accordance with
paragraph (1) above, the Borrower shall:
(a) 
screen such proposal and assess the proposed Implementing Agency's ("IA")
capacity for the implementation thereof, in accordance with the eligibility criteria
and procedures set forth in the Operations Manual, which criteria shall include the
activities' compliance (including any envisioned Linked Activities) with social
and environmental requirements and standards set forth in the Safeguard
Documents; and
(b) 
prior to sanctioning such Sub-Loan for Selected Solar Parks other than those
located in Rewan and Mandasaur submit the IA's financing proposal and ancillary
-8-
documentation to the Bank for concurrence or objection, to be provided within
thirty (30) days of such submission.
3. 
Upon: (i) the Borrower's completion of the screening and selection of a Sub-Loan
application for the financing of Eligible Shared Infrastructure in solar park(s) pursuant to
the procedures and criteria set forth in the Operations Manual; and (ii) the Bank's granting
its concurrences to the proposed Sub-Loan for the Selected Solar Park, the Borrower shall
enter into a written agreement with the respective Implementing Agency ("Sub-Loan
Agreement"7) whereby the Borrower shall make (part of) the proceeds ofthe Loan available
to the Implementing Agency ("Sub-Loan") in order for the IA to carry out the approved
proposal for a Selected Solar Park, all in accordance with the terms and conditions
acceptable the Bank, which shall include the following:
(a) 
the IA shall commit to the objective ofthe Project; and undertake to implement the
selected proposal, and conduct its operations and affairs, in accordance with: (i)
sound technical, financial, managerial, social and environmental and labor
standards, consistent with the minimum requirements set forth in the Operations
Manual, the ESMF, and Section I.D of this Schedule, and/or as otherwise agreed
in writing by Bank, and (ii) the respective ESIA, EMP(s), RAP(s) and/or IPDP(s)
and all other Safeguards Documents prepared pursuant to Section ID.2 of this
Schedule;
(b) 
the IA shall implement the approved proposal and, whenever foreseeable, any
Linked Activities in compliance with the Bank's Anti-Corruption Guidelines;
(c) 
the IA shall provide promptly as needed the resources required to successfully
complete the proposal implementation;
(d) 
the IA shall: (i) prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank, by no later than
February 28 of each year, a draft annual work plan and budget for Project activities
in its Selected Solar Park(s), covering the activities proposed for the subsequent
year of implementation, which plan shall be of such scope and detail as the
Borrower and the Bank shall reasonably request; and (ii) thereafter implement the
said activities, pursuant to the final plan as discussed and agreed with the Borrower
and the Bank-
(e) 
the IA shall prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank, by no later than six
(6) months after the signing of the Sub-Loan Agreement, a draft time-bound
corporate governance action plan, describing the IA's extant corporate governance
framework and the envisioned activities/measures to strengthen it, which plan shall
be of such scope and detail as the Borrower and the Bank shall reasonably request;
and (ii) thereafter implement the said plan/measures, as discussed and agreed with
the Borrower and the Bank,
(f) 
the IA shall procure the goods, works, consultants' services and non-consulting
services, in accordance with the provisions of the Procurement Guidelines and the
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be;
-9-
(g) 
the IA shall: (i) establish and/or maintain policies and procedures that would allow
the Borrower and/or the Bank to monitor and supervise the implementation of the
approved proposal, and the achievement of the Project's development objectives,
in accordance with indicators agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, (ii)
prepare and furnish to the Borrower and/or the Bank, all such information that the
Borrower and/or the Bank shall reasonably request in relation to the approved
proposal and the implementation thereof; and (iii) accept random and/or
unannounced physical or documentary inspections by the Borrower and/or the
Bank for the monitoring of, and in relation to, the carrying out of the approved
proposal;
(h) 
the IA shall: prepare and furnish to the Bank by no later than thirty (30) days after
the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for its
respective activities under the Project, covering the quarter, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank;
(i) 
the IA shall: (i) retain all records (i.e. contracts, order, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures incurred under the respective
proposal, until at least the later of: (A) one year after the Bank has received the
IA's audited Financial Statements covering the calendar year in which the last
withdrawal from the Sub-Loan was made; and (B) two years after the Closing
Date; (ii) have such records and accounts annually audited in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by an independent auditor,
under terms and conditions agreed with the Borrower and the Bank, and set forth
in the Operations Manual; and (iii) submit to the Borrower and the Bank the
foregoing audited financial statements within nine (9) months after the end of the
annual period covered by the report;
(j) 
the IA shall establish, by no later than six (6) months after the signing of the Sub-
Loan Agreement, and thereafter maintain throughout the period of implementation
of Project activities in respect of its Selected Solar Park(s), a grievance redressal
mechanism acceptable to the Bank, as prescribed in the ESMF, and capable of
handling/processing any complaints arising in connection with the carrying out of
its respective activities/Selected Solar Parks;
(k) 
the Borrower shall have the right to suspend or terminate the right of a IA to
withdraw and use the proceeds of the Sub-Loan:
(i) 
upon any failure of the IA to perform it obligations under the Sub-Loan
Agreement; or
(ii) 
upon the Bank declaring the IA ineligible under the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines; or
(iii) 
upon a Linked Activity being carried out by the IA, the respective Selected
State and/or any other legal entity controlled, enabled/authorized and/or
-10-
financed by such IA and/or the respective Selected State, in violation of
the ESMF and/or in violation of any of the Bank's Safeguard Policies; and
(1) 
the IA shall acknowledge and consent to the Borrower's right of restitution of any
amounts disbursed under the Sub-Loan with respect to which fraud and corruption
has occurred, or with which an ineligible expenditure has been paid.
4. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-Loan Agreements in such manner as
to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive the Sub-Loan Agreements or any of its provisions.
D. 
Safeguards
I1. 
The Borrower shall, and shall cause the IA(s) to:
(a) 
carry out the Project in accordance with the ESMF, and the ESIAs, EMPs, RAPs
and IPDPs prepared and/or to be prepared pursuant to paragraph 2 of this sub-
section in accordance with the objectives, policies, procedures, time schedules,
compensation arrangements and other provisions set forth in the ESMF (together,
the "Safeguard Documents"), in each case in a manner and in substance
satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b) 
refrain from taking any action which would prevent or interfere with the
implementation of the Safeguard Documents, including any amendment,
suspension, waiver, and/or voidance of any provision ofthe Safeguard Documents,
whether in whole or in part, without the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
2. 
Prior to signing a Sub-Loan Agreement for the financing of a Selected Solar Park with an
IA and/or disbursing any funds thereunder, the Borrower shall ensure that:
(a) 
the proposed activities/Selected Solar Park have/has been screened by the IA in
accordance with the guidelines, standards and procedures set forth in the ESMF;
(b) 
the respective ESIA(s), EMP(s), RAP(s) and/or IPDP(s) required for such
activities/Selected Solar Park pursuant to the ESMF has/have been prepared and
submitted to the Borrower and the Bank for review, and the Bank has notified the
Borrower, in writing, of its no-objection thereto; and
(c) 
the foregoing Safeguard Documents have been publicly disclosed by the Borrower
and the IA, in local language(s), in their respective websites as well as the relevant
Project's sites, in accordance with the provision of the ESMF.
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure, and/or cause the lAs to ensure, that, prior to commencing any
civil works on a Selected Solar Park: (a) all necessary governmental permits and clearances
for such civil works in the relevant Selected Solar Park shall have been obtained from the
competent governmental authority/ies; (b) all pre-construction conditions imposed by the
-11-
governmental authority/ies under such permit(s) or clearance(s) shall have been complied
with/fulfilled; and (c) all resettlement measures set forth in the applicable RAP(s) to the
respective Selected Solar Parks shall have been fully executed, including the full payment
of compensation prior to displacement and/or the provision of relocation assistance to all
Displaced Persons, as per the entitlements provided in the ESMF and/or the applicable
RAP(s).
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure, and/or cause the IA(s) to ensure, that each contract for civil
works under the Project includes the obligation of the relevant contractor to comply with
the relevant Safeguard Documents applicable to such civil works commissioned/awarded
pursuant to said contract.
5. 
The Borrower shall, and/or shall cause the IA(s) to, maintain monitoring and evaluation 
.
protocols and record keeping procedures acceptable to the Bank and adequate to enable the
Borrower and the Bank to supervise and assess, on an on-going basis, the implementation
of/compliance with the Safeguards Documents, as well as the achievement of the objectives
thereof.
6. 
The Borrower shall ensure, and cause the IA(s) to ensure, that the following Project
expenditures are financed exclusively out of the Guarantor's, the Borrower's, the Selected
States' and/or IA(s)' own resources, and, to this end, the IA shall provide, or seek from the
Borrower, the Guarantor or the respective Selected State, as the case may be, as promptly
as needed, the resources required therefor, namely:
(a) 
all land acquisition required for the Selected Solar Parks and or any other
activities under the Project, and
(b) 
any compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation payment to Displaced
Persons in accordance with te provision of the RAPs.
unIn 
the event of any conflict between the provisions of any of the ESM, ESIAs, EMs,
RAPs and/or IPDPs, on the one hand, and the provisions of this Agreement, on the other
hand, the provisions of the latter shall prevail.
a 
Linked Activities
a. 
In the event that any civil works for any Linked Activities associated to a Selected Solar
Park had commenced prior to the identification and selection of such solar park for
financing under Component I of the Project pursuant to Section I.Cl above, the eligibility
of such solar park for financing under the Project shall be contingent to:
(a) 
the implementing agency responsible for such Linked Activity having carried out
an environmental and social due diligence of such Linked Activities in accordance
with the Bank's Safeguard Policies, and submitting a report therefor to the Bank
jointly with any recommended/necessary EMP(s), RAP(s) andlor IPDP(s) required
for such Linked Activities to be aligned with the social and environmental
principles and standard set forth in the Bank's Safeguard Polices;
- 12-
(b) 
a written commitment by the implementing agency responsible for carrying out
such Linked Activities to implementing the said Linked Activities and/or operating
the resulting infrastructure in conformity with the Bank's Safeguard Polices, the
EMP(s) the RAP(s) and/or the IPDP(s) recommended pursuant to sub-paragraph
1(a) above;
(c) 
the Bank's having reviewed the foregoing due diligence report, EMP(s), RAP(s)
and/or IPDP(s), as well as the commitment of the implementing agency
responsible for carrying out such Linked Activities, and notifying the Borrower, in
writing, of its no-objection thereto;
(d) 
the foregoing ESIA(s), EMP(s), RAP(s) and/or IPDP(s) for the said Linked
Activities, as applicable, having been publicly disclosed by the responsible agency,
as the case may be, in local language(s) and at the relevant sites, in accordance
with the Bank's Safeguard Policies; and
(e) 
all resettlement measures, if any, as set forth in the RAP(s) applicable to the
respective Linked Activities, having been fully executed, including the full
payment of compensation and/or the provision of relocation assistance to all
Displaced Persons, as per the entitlements provided in the applicable RAP(s).
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall furnish to the Bank, by no later than January 31 of
each year, commencing on January 31, 2018, an annual work plan of any proposed Linked
Activities to be implemented in the following fiscal year.
Section IL 
Project Monitorlam. Reportine and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1 .
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare, and/or
cause the Implementing Agencies to prepare, Project Reports in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed
with the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the period
covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare
and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of each calendar
quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form
and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
-13-
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements for the Project, and cause the
Implementing Agencies to have their Financial Statements for their respective activities
under the Project, audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the
General Conditions. Each such audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of
one fiscal year of the Borrower or the respective Implementing Agency, as the case may
be, commencing: (a) for the Borrower, with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal
from the Loan was made; and (b) for each Implementing Agency, in the fiscal year in which
the first disbursement under the respective Sub-Loan was received from the Borrower. The
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later
than nine (9) months after the end of the respective fiscal year.
Section M. 
Procurment
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. 
All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to the
corresponding method described in Sections II and Ill of the Procurement Guidelines, or
Sections 11, 111, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional
provisions set forth in the Procurement Plan; (b) Shopping; (c) procurement under
Framework Agreements in accordance with procedures which have been found acceptable
to the Bank; and (d) Direct Contracting.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
-14-
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality and
Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following methods, other
than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of consultants'
services for those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based
Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; (d) Selection based
on Consultants' Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting fins; (f)
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 53 of the Consultant Guidelines for the
Selection of Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank For
avoidance of doubts, the Bank shall be entitled to conduct, at any time, independent
procurement reviews of all the contract financed under the Loan.
.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan. CTF Loan and CT Grant Proceds
A. 
General
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of: (a) the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions; (b) the CTF Loan in accordance with
the provision of Article Ill of the CTF Standard Conditions; and (c) the CTF Grant in
accordance with the provision of Article M of the Grant Standard Conditions; as well as
the provision of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by
notice to the Borrower (including the "Disbursement Guidelines for Investment Project
Financing" dated February 2017, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the CTF Loan and the CTF Grant ("Category"), the
allocation of the amounts of the Loan, CTF Loan and CTF Grant to each such Category,
and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each such
Category.
- 15 -
Category 
Amount of the 
Amount of the 
Amount of 
PerTentage of
Loan 
CTF Grant 
the CTF 
Expenditures to
Allocated (La. 
Allocated (TF 
Loan 
be financed
8737-IN) 
TF0A4639) 
Allocated 
(inclusive of
(expressed in 
(expressed in 
(TF0A4648) 
Taxes)
USD) 
USD) 
(expressed in
USD)
(1) Sub-Loans under
Component I of the
Project for the Selected 
27,930,000 
0 
9,310,000 
100%
Solar Parks in Rewa and
Mandsaur
(2) Sub-Loans under
Component I of the
Srojet Pr Seleted 
46,882,500 
0 
13,690,000 
100%
those located in Rewa
and Mandsaur)
(3) Goods, works, non-
consulting services,
consultants' services,
Training and 
0 
2,000,000 
0 
100%
Workshops, and
Operating Costs for
Component 2 of the
Project
Amount payable
pursuant to Section
2.03 of this
(4) Front-end Fee* 
187,500 
N/A 
N/A 
Agreement in
accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of
the General
Conditions
Amount due
(5) Interest Rate Cap or 
pursuant to Section
interest 
Rate 
Collar 
0 
N/A 
N/A 
2.08(c) of this
premium* 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
75,000,000 
2,000,000 
23,000,000
* The Front-end Fee, and the terst Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar prnia (as defined in the General Conditions) are
exclusively acctued and/or applicable to the Loan
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
-16-
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up
to an aggregate amount not to exceed: (i) fifteen million United States dollars
(USD 15,000,000) out ofthe Loan proceeds; (ii) four million six hundred thousand
United States dollars (USD 4,600,000) out of the CTF Loan proceeds; and (iii)
four hundred thousand (USD 400,000) out of the CTF Grant, may be made for
payments made prior to this date but on or after May 1, 2016, for Eligible
Expenditures under Categorylies (1) and (3); and
(b) 
under Category (2) until and unless the Borrower has prepared, approved and
adopted the Operations Manual in a manner and substance acceptable to the Bank.
2. 
The Closing Date is July 31, 2022.
- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a)
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment
Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary,
to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a
Percentage)
On each April 15 and October 15
Beginning on April 15, 2022 
3.570/
through April 15, 2035
On October 15, 2035 
3.61%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as
of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the nunerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding
on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall
be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
- 18 -
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating
to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
APPENDIX
Section 1. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and GTants", dated
October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011, and as of July 1, 2016.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement
3. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the " Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowersr dated January
2011 (revised July 2014).
4. 
"CTF" means the Clean Technology Fund, a fund established by approval of the World
Bank Executive Directors on July 1, 2008, and governed under the "Governance
Framework for the Clean Technology Fund".
5. 
" CTF Grant" means the grant in the amount of two million United Sttes Dollars (USD
2,000,000) provided by the CTF for the co-financing of the Project pursuant to the CTF
Grant Agreement.
6. 
"CTF Grant Agreement" means the agreement, of the same date as this Agreement,
between the Borrower and the International bank for Reconstruction and Development.
acting as implementing entity of the CT, for purposes of providing the CTF Grant, as the
same may be amended from time to time.
7. 
"CTF Guarantee Agreement" means the agreement of the same date as this Agreement,
between India and the Interriational Bank of Reconstruction and Development, acting as
an implementing entity of the CTF, as the same may be amended from time to time.
8. 
" CTF Loan" means the loan in the amount of twenty three million United States Dollars
(USD 23,000,000) provided by the CIT for the co-financing of the Project pursuant to the
CIT Loan Agreement.
9. 
"CT Loan Agreement" means the agreement, of the same date ofthis Agreement, between
the Borrower and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, acting as
an implementing entity of the CTF, for purposes of providing the CIT Loan, as the same
may be amended from time to time.
10. 
"CIT Standard Conditions" means the "Standard Conditions for Loans Made by the World
Bank Out of the Climate Investment Funds" dated February 18, 2014, with the
modifications set forth in Section 11 of the Appendix to the CIT Loan Agreement.
11. 
"Displaced Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of the Project or any
Linked Activities, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social
- 20-
impacts caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land. resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of
shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of
livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to another location; or (b) the
involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting
in adverse impact on the livelihoods of such persons.
12. 
"Eligible Shared Infrastructure" means, with respect to each Selected Solar Park, access
roads, water supply and drainage, telecommunications facilities, pooling stations,
switchyards and their respective transformers, transmission lines connecting the internal
pooling stations to the external sub-stations at the periphery of a Selected Solar Parks, and
any other related infrastructure meeting the criteria set out in the Operations Manual.
13. 
"EMP" means, each of the Implementing Agencylies' environmental management plans
prepared, or to be prepared, for all Selected Solar Parks and/or Linked Activities, pursuant
to Sections ID.2 and LE of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and Section 3.01 of each of the
IBRD Guarantee Agreement and/or the CTF Guarantee Agreement, all in accordance with
the provisions of the ESMF and the Safeguard Policies, in each case setting out mitigation,
enhancement, monitoring and institutional measures, including capacity building through
training, required to: (i) eliminate adverse environmental impacts of Project activities and
Linked Activities; (ii) offset such impacts, or reduce them to acceptable levels; (iii)
enhance any positive consequences thereof; and/or (iv) ensure compliance with
Guarantor's statutory environmental requirements; as such plan may be revised, updated
or supplemented from time to time with the prior written concurrence of the Bank. The
term EMP includes the environmental management plans contained in: (a) the
environmental and social assessment report carried out in respect of the Selected Solar Park
in Rewa, dated May 2016 and disclosed by the Bank's Infoshop on September 1, 2016; as
well as (b) the environmental and social due diligence report carried out in respect of the
Selected Solar,Park in Mandasur, dated October 2016 and disclosed by the Bank's Infoshop
on October 1, 2016.
14. 
"ESIA" means each of the Implementing Agencies' environmental and social impact
assessments/reports prepared, or to be prepared, for any Selected Solar Parks and/or any
Linked Activities, pursuant to Sections I.D2 and LE of Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and/or Section 3.01 of the IBRD Guarantee Agreement and CTF Guarantee Agreement, all
in accordance with the provisions of the ESMF or the Safguard Policies, as the case may
be, in order to: (i) assess the likely positive and negative environmental and social impact
of Project activities and their Linked Activities; as such assessments may be revised,
updated or supplemented from time to time with the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
The term ESIA includes the: (a) environmental and social assessment report carried out in
respect of the Selected Solar Park in Rewa, dated May 2016 and disclosed by the Bank's
Infoshop on September 1, 2016; as well as (b) the environmental and social due diligence
report carried out in respect of the Selected Solar Park in Mandasur, dated October 2016
and disclosed by the Bank's Infbshop on October 1, 2016.
15. 
"ESMF" means the Borrower's environmental and social management framework,
disclosed by the Bank's Infoshop on February 11, 2016, setting forth the guiding
policies/principles, acceptable standards and procedures for: (a) the screening of Project
-21-
investment activities and the identification of any adverse or positive social and
environmental impacts caused, or expected to be caused, on account of their
implementation, inclqding any Displaced Persons arising from the carrying out of such
activities, or any impacts, whether prejudicial or benign, caused or likely to be caused to
Tribal Groups; and (b) the preparation of their prescribed ESIA(s), EMP(s), IPDP(s) and/or
RAP(s), as applicable; as such framework may be revised, updated or supplemented from
time to time with the prior written concurrence of the Bank. The ESMF includes, inter
alia, the Project's RPF and IPPF.
16. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
17. 
"Governance Framework for the Clean Technology Fund" means the framework adopted
on November 18, 2008 by the CTF trust fund committee, as amended form time to time.
18. 
"Grant Standard Conditions" means the "Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the
World Bank out of Various Funds", dated, February 15, 2012.
19. 
"IBRD Guarantee Agreement" means the agreement between India and the Bank of even
date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time.
20. 
"Implementing Agency" and the acronym "IA" mean a public or private corporation and/or
joint venture, registered under the Guarantor's Companies Act 1956 (as revised in 2013),
and/or otherwise established as a legal entity under the Guarantor's law, holding a valid
concession/authorization from the Guarantor and/or the Selected States, as the case may
be, for the construction of a solar park or a transmission line associated with a solar park,
and which meet the eligibility set forth in the Operations Manual, and to which the Bank
has given its written no objection for inclusion in the Project.
21. 
"Implementing Agencies' Enabling Legal Framework" means, collectively, the statutes,
articles of agreements, by-laws, and/or any ancillary regulation of the Guarantor or the
Selected States constituting/establishing an Implementing Agency and/or regulating its
businesses and operations.
22. 
"IPDP" means each of the Implementing Agencylies' tribal development plans prepared
and/or to be prepared for Selected Solar Parks and/or Linked Activities, pursuant to
Sections I.D.2 and LE of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and Section 3.01 of each of the
IBRD Guarantee Agreement and the CTF Guarantee Agreement, all in accordance with the
provisions of the ESMF/IPPF or the Safeguard Policies, which set forth the principles and
procedures designed to ensure meaningful consultation with, and informed participation
of, Tribal Groups and their communities in the design and implementation of the Project
activities and/or Linked Activities, as the case may be, as well as their participation in the
envisioned culturally appropriate and socially inclusive benefits thereof; as such plans may
be amended from time to time with the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
- 22 -
23. 
"IPPF" means the Borrower's indigenous peoples planning framework, disclosed by the
Bank's Infoshop on February 11, 2016, setting forth the policies and procedures to ensure
that Tribal Groups and their communities affected by the Project receive culturally
appropriate social and economic benefits, and if any potential adverse effects on such
communities were identified, the measures to ensure that their effects are avoided,
minimized, mitigated, or compensated, as well as the protocols for the preparation of
IPDP(s), as such framework may be revised, updated or supplemented from time to time
with the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
24. 
"IREDA" means India Renewable Energy Development Agency Ltd. (i.e. the Borrower),
a central public sector enterprise of the Guarantor, registered under the Guarantor's
Companies 
Act 
(1956) 
(as 
revised 
in 
2013), 
pursuant 
to 
Reg. 
No.
U40108DL1987GO1027265, having its registered office at India Habitat Center, East
Court Core -4A, I" Floor, Lodi Road New Delhi, India.
25. 
"IUFRs" means the interim unaudited financial reports referred to in Section II.B.2 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
26. 
"kV" means kilovolts.
27. 
"Linked Activities" means: (a) any substations, transmission lines and/or power generation
plans established within the Selected Solar Parks and/or in the peripheries thereof; and/or
(b) any other ancillary infrastructure and activities that are: (i) significantly or directly
related to the Project; (ii) necessary to achieve the Project's development objectives; and
(iii) carried out or planned to be carried out contemporaneously with the Project.
28. 
"Mandsaur" means the Mandsaur District in the Guarantor's State of Madhya Pradesh.
29. 
"MNRE" means the Guarantor's Ministry ofNew and Renewable Energy, or any successor
thereto.
30. 
"Operating Costs" means the reasonable costs of incremental expenditures incurred by the
Borrower and/or the Implementing Agencies on account of Project implementation,
management and monitoring, including, inter alia: (i) costs of incremental staff salaries
(other than consultants but including salaries of civil servants seconded to the lAs); (ii)
dissemination of Project related information; (iii) office rental and leasing operation and
maintenance ofequipment; (iv) office supplies and utilities; (v) travel and boarding/lodging
allowances; (vi) leasing, operation and maintenance of vehicles; (vii) advertising and
communication expenses; and (viii) bank charges.
31. 
"Operations Manual" means the manual to be prepared by Borrower in a manner and
substance satisfactory to the Bank for purposes of carrying out the Project, which manual
shall detail, inter alia: (i) the principles and objective of the Project, its results framework,
estimated costs and source of funding; (ii) the Project implementation arrangements,
including the identification of the Borrower's key relevant staft and the allocation of
functions and responsibilities within the Borrower's cadres; (iii) the format of the IUFRs;
(iv) the selection/readiness criteria, and the screening protocols and procedures for the
- 23 -
assessment of lAs and the evaluation of their proposals for the financing of solar parks,
including compliance with social, safety and environmental standards set forth in the
ESMF; (v) the pro-forma Sub-Loan Agreement, setting forth the terms and conditions for
the Sub-Loans, including the applicability of the Bank's Procurement Guidelines,
Consultants' Guidelines, and Anti-Corruption Guidelines (vi) the terms of reference for the
external auditor preparing the respective IA's Financial Statements; and (vii) the Project
monitoring and evaluation, and reporting requirements; and such manual may be amended
from time to time with the prior concurrence of the Bank.
32. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of G6ods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
33. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated March
9, 2017 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph
1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
34. 
"RAP" means, each of the Implementing Agency/ies' resettlement action plans to be
prepared for Selected Solar Parks and/or their Linked Activities, pursuant to Sections I.D.2
and I.E of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and Section 3.01 of each of the IBRD Guarantee
Agreement and the CTF Guarantee Agreement, all in accordance with the provisions of the
ESMF and the Safeguard Policies, in each case identifying Displaced Persons on account
of implementation of Project activities in the respective Selected Solar Parks financed
under the Project and/or their Linked Activities, and setting forth the terms and conditions
for providing them with resettlement assistance and/or compensation, as well the
procedures to be applied in the identification, assessment and mitigation of potential
Project related social impacts, including the protocols for consultation, the processing of
complaints and grievance redressal, monitoring and reporting requirements, and the
Displaced Persons' entitlement schedules; as such plans may be revised, updated or
supplemented from time to time with the prior written concurrence of the Bank. The term
RAP includes the resettlement action plans contained in: (a) the environmental and social
assessment report carried out in respect of the Selected Solar Park in Rewa, dated May
2016 and disclosed by the Bank's Infoshop on September 1, 2016; as well as (b) the
environmental and social due diligence report carried out in respect of the Selected Solar
Park in Mandasur, dated October 2016 and disclosed by the Bank's Infoshop on October
1,2016.
35. 
"Rewa" means the Rewa District in the Guarantor's State of Madhya Pradesh.
36. 
"RPF" means the Borrower's resettlement policy framework, disclosed by the Bank's
Infoshop on February 11, 2016, setting forth the: (a) mitigation, enhancement, monitoring
and institutional measures (including capacity building through training) required for the
acquisition of land, and related assets, under the Project; (b) the protocols for the
preparation of the respective RAP(s); and (c) the entitlements for compensation,
resettlement, and rehabilitation ofDisplaced Persons; as such RPF may be revised, updated
or supplemented from time to time with the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
- 24 -
37. 
"Safeguard Documents" means, collectively: (i) the ESMF (including the RPF and IPPF),
the ESIA(s), the EMP(s), the RAP(s), the IPDP(s) prepared or to be prepared pursuant to
Sections LD and LE of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and/or Sections 3.01 of the IBRD
Guarantee Agreement and the CTF Guarantee Agreement, as the case may be; and (ii) the
environmental and social due diligence report set forth in Section LE. 1(a) of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
38. 
"Safeguard Policies" means the operational policies and procedures for financing of
development projects by the Bank and relating to environmental assessment, natural
habitats, pest management, indigenous peoples, physical cultural resources, involuntary
resettlement, forests, safety of dams, projects on international waterways, and projects in
disputed areas, as published under www.WorldBank.org/opmanual on the date of this
Agreement.
39. 
"Selected Solar Park" means any of the solar parks: (a) located in Rewa or Mandsaur;
and/or (b) screened and selected for development under Component I of the Project
pursuant to Sections I.C.1 and I.C.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and the procedures
and criteria set forth in the Operations Manual.
40. 
"Selected States" means the Guarantor's States of Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh
and Odisha, and/or any other state agreed in writing by the Borrower and the Bank, from
time to time.
41. 
"State Nodal Agencies" means, collectively, the State agencies which are responsible for
coordinating all renewable energy activities within the Selected States (including the
channeling of MNRE's central sector subsidies), or any successor thereto.
42. 
"Sub-Loan" means each of the loans (to be) made available by the Borrower to an IA out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the CTF Loan and/or the CTF Grant, under a Sub-Loan
Agreement, for the financing of goods, works, non-consulting services, consultants'
services, Training and Workshops, and Operating Costs needed for the design,
development and/or construction of Eligible Shared Infrastructure its respective Selected
Solar Park(s).
43. 
"Sub-Loan Agreement" means each of the agreements to be entered by and between the
Borrower and each of the Implementing Agencies, pursuant to Section LC.3 of Schedule 2
to the Loan Agreement, whereby the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan, the
CTF Loan and/or the CTF Grant available to the Implementing Agencies for the carrying
out of Eligible Shared Infrastructure investments in their respective Selected Solar Parks.
44. 
"Training and Workshops" means the reasonable cost of trainings, seminars, workshops,
conferences and study tours, conducted in the territory of the Guarantor and/or overseas,
and organized or attended by the Borrower's and/or MNRE's staff, or the staff of the
Implementing Agencies in relation to the Project; which costs include: (a) the fees of
training institutions and courses; (b) domestic and international travel costs, lodging costs,
and subsistence/per diem allowances both for trainers and trainees; (c) the rental of training
facilities; and (d) preparation, purchase or reproduction of training materials.
- 25 -
45. 
"Tribal Groups" means any distinct, vulnerable, social and cultural group within the
territory of a Selected State, that: (i) self-identifies as such and claims, and is recognized
by others as, having a distinguishable cultural identity; (ii) has collective attachment to
geographically distinct habitats or ancestral territories in the Project area, and to the natural
resources in these habitat and territories; (iii) has customary cultural, economic, social and
political institutions that are separate from those of the dominant society and culture; and
(iv) has an indigenous language, often different from the official language of the Borrower
and/or the respective Selected State.
Section H. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually
in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition
of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.0 1(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition
of"Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01
(a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition
of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
-26-
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, interest at the
Default Interest Rate (if any), the Commitment Charge, any surcharge and any prepayment
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting-the words "and
Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
