OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8658-CM
Loan Agreement
(Electricity Transmission and Reform Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
07 N 
2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8658-CM
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
0 1 JUiN , 2017, between REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred and ninety-one million one hundred
thousand Euros (EUR 291,100,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than sixty
(60) days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread provided, however, that the
interest payable shall in no event be less than zero percent (0%) per annum; provided,
furthermore that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General
Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance
remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then
the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02
(e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
-2-
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest
rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the
Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project Implementing Entity in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the Project
Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project
is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
The Project Implementing Entity's Legislation has been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability
of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
(b) 
The Projcct Implementing Entity shall have failed to comply with its obligations
under the Subsidiary Agreement.
-3-
(c) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this Agreement, an
extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Project Implementing Entity will be able to perform any of its obligations under
the Subsidiary Agreement.
(d) 
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any action
for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Project Implementing Entity or for
the suspension of its operations.
(e) 
The Borrower, in the opinion of the Bank, shall have failed to act, or failed to cause
other relevant parties to act, in a manner consistent with the terms or consistent
with achievement of the objectives expressed in the Transmission Sub-sector
Reform Policy Statement.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of any event specified in paragraphs (a)
through (e) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurring and continuing for a period of
sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consists of the following:
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and the
Project Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Section I.B of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(b) 
The Project Implementing Entity has recruited to the PIU, a Project coordinator, a
financial management specialist, an accountant, a procurement specialist and an
environmental and social safeguards specialist, all in accordance with the
provisions of Section I.B.1(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and Section
I.A. 1(b) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
(c) 
The Project Implementing Entity has adopted the Project Implementation Manual
in accordance with the provisions of Section I.D of Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and Section I.C of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
(d) 
The Borrower has provided the Commitment Letter to the Bank in accordance with
Section V.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter shall be that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity in accordance with its
terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty days (120) days after the
date of this Agreement.
-4-
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its minister at the time responsible for economy,
planning and regional development.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Economy, Planning and Regional Development
P.B. 660
Yaound6
Republic of Cameroon
Facsimile:
(237) 222 22 15 09
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at Yaound6, Republic of Cameroon, as of the day and year first above written.
REP 
MEROON
qv,\cof Cs4 
-
MitINIS
uthoized Representative
Name: Louis Pau MOTAM
Title:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELO
DIR CTEU
DES OPERATIOv
L.thorized 
Repre-' 
W6tt
Name:
Title:
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve the capacity, efficiency, and reliability of the
Borrower's national electricity transmission network.
The Project consists of the following parts:
1 .
Provision of support towards the operationalization of the Project Implementing Entity's
transmission portfolio, including inter alia:
(a) 
Facilitation of 
the Project Implementing Entity's purchase and transfer of
transmission assets from ENEO, including, carrying out of related legal and
operational activities for the purpose of said purchase and transfer.
(b) 
Consolidation of the Project Implementing Entity's institutional and regulatory
framework including: (i) clarification and finalization of operational arrangements
and business plans; and (ii) carrying out of studies to assess the implications for
compliance with, and continuity of, existing contracts.
(c) 
Provision of technical and management support to the Project Implementing Entity
to facilitate the rapid initiation of its business operations and refinement of its
organizational structure and procedures.
(d) 
Provision of technical assistance to the Project Implementing Entity to facilitate
and supervise the implementation of the National Transmission Grid Investment
Program and the management of all resettlement, compensation, and citizen
engagement processes; including support to the activities of the Assistant Program
Manager and Owner's Engineer.
2. 
Strengthening of the national transmission grid through, inter alia:
(a) 
Strengthening of the city of Douala's radial transmission system through high-
priority investments, including the completion or construction, as the case may be,
of 225kV and 90kV lines and HV/MV substations in the city of Douala's electricity
transmission system.
(b) 
Strengthening of the city of Yaound6's radial transmission system through high-
priority investments, including the completion of 225kV and 90 kV electricity
transmission lines and substations in the city of Yaounde's transmission system.
(c) 
Strengthening and stabilization of three national transmission networks, namely,
the northern transmission network, southern transmission network and eastern
transmission network, and their interconnections.
(d) 
Enhancong of the effectiveness and sustainability of investments in the
transmission sector, through provision of support to 'smart grid' investments in the
-7-
transmission system, including, inter alia, strengthening of the Supervisory
Control And Data Acquisition (SCADA) infrastructure of the national grid,
upgrade of switchgear and system protection equipment, and modernization of
system maintenance and diagnostics technology.
(e) 
Carrying out of a program of activities aimed at supporting the implementation of
the environmental and social mitigation measures associated with the Project
including, but not limited to, the measures detailed in the Safeguards Instruments.
3. 
Project management support and capacity building through:
(a) 
Carrying out of a program of technical assistance activities aimed at strengthening
the Borrower's sectorial institutions namely, MINEE, AER, ARSEL through, inter
alia, preparation of feasibility studies, analytics and advisory services and capacity
building related to potential future investments in electricity transmission and
overall sector reform including studies on transmission infrastructure investments,
updating of the Borrower's energy sector policy and preparation of an energy
masterplan, development of a grid code for power producers, completion of studies
on the establishment of a regulating authority on renewable energy development,
development of a program and policy on electricity access and carrying out of
studies and mobilization of financing for the Borrower's rural electrification
program.
(b) 
Strengthening the Project Implementing Entity's technical and fiduciary capacity
to coordinate, manage and implement the Project, including technical assistance,
recruitment of requisite staff, purchase of equipment, and provision of trainings,
audits, and monitoring and evaluation activities.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Project Steering Committee
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, at all times during the implementation of the Project, the
Project Steering Committee with a mandate, composition and resources satisfactory to the
Bank
2. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section I.A. 1 of this Schedule
2, the Project Steering Committee shall be chaired by the minister of the Borrower's
ministry responsible for energy and shall be comprised of, inter alia, representatives of the
Borrower's ministries responsible for economy, public works, and the general director for
ARSEL.
3. 
The Project Steering Committee shall meet at least once every semester and shall be
responsible for Project oversight, including, inter alia: (a) assisting with coordination
among the relevant ministries and other institutions involved in the Project; (b) reviewing
the proposed Annual Work Plans and Budgets for the Project; and (c) providing overall
Project monitoring and guidance and harmonization of all activities regarding the
Borrower's electricity transmission program.
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement
1 .
In order to achieve the objectives of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds of
the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity under a subsidiary agreement
between the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank ("Subsidiary Agreement"), which shall include, without limitation,
the following:
(a) 
The proceeds of the Loan shall be made available to the Project Implementing
Entity on sustainable loan terms.
(b) 
The Borrower shall require the Project Implementing Entity to maintain within its
structure, the Project implementing unit with composition, terms of reference and
resources satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank which shall: (i) be comprised
of qualified and experienced personnel in adequate numbers, and to this end
recruit, inter alia: (A) a Project coordinator, a financial management specialist, an
accountant, a procurement specialist and an environmental and social safeguards
specialist; and (B) no later than six (6) months after the Effective Date, a
monitoring and evaluation specialist, all with qualifications, experience and terms
of reference acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) be responsible for day-to-day Project
coordination, implementation and supervision, including, inter alia: (A) preparing
proposed Annual Work Plans and Budgets of activities for inclusion in the Project,
and updating the Procurement Plan and related budgets and consolidating Project
-9-
Reports for the Project Steering Committee's information; (B) carrying out all
Project financial management and procurement activities; (C) ensuring compliance
with the Safeguard Instruments; and (D) monitoring and evaluating the Project.
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of the preceding paragraph (b)(i), the
Borrower shall, not later than three (3) months before the launching of the bidding
documents for Parts 2(a), 2(b) and 2(c) of the Project, cause the Project
Implementing Entity to recruit, in accordance with Section III of this Schedule 2,
an owner's engineer with qualifications, experience and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, to assist the Project Implementing Entity with supervision
of the procurement, design and construction of the Electricity Infrastructure,
operationalization of electricity services and preparation for operation and
maintenance of said Electricity Infrastructure and electricity services ("Owner's
Engineer").
(d) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section I.B.1(b)(i) of this Schedule 2,
the Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to recruit, in accordance
with Section III of this Schedule 2, an assistant program manager with
qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, to assist
the Project Implementing Entity with overall management of the Project
Implementing Entity's electricity transmission investment, program and overall
business operations ("Assistant Program Manager").
(e) 
To facilitate the carrying out of all Project procurement activities, the Borrower
shall: (i) no later than six(6) months after the Effective Date, establish a special
tender board ("Project Tender Board"), and thereafter maintain at all times during
the implementation of the Project, said Project Tender Board with composition,
terms of reference and resources satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) without
limitations upon the preceding, maintain the mandate of the SONATREL Tender
Board with composition, terms of reference and resources satisfactory to the Bank
until such time as the Project Tender Board shall be established and operational in
accordance with the provisions of the preceding Section I.B. I (e)(i), whereupon the
Project Tender Board shall take over from the SONATREL Tender Board all of
the responsibilities performed by the latter with respect to all procurement
activities of the Project.
(f) 
The Borrower shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and those of the
Bank, including the requirement that the Project Implementing Entity:
(i) 
carry out its activities under the Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with sound technical, economic, financial, managerial,
environmental and social standards and practices satisfactory to the Bank,
including, without limitation to the generality of the foregoing, in
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines
applicable to recipients of Loan proceeds other than the Borrower, the
Project Implementation Manual, and the Safeguard Instruments;
-10-
(ii) 
maintain policies and procedures, adequate to enable the Project
Implementing Entity to monitor and evaluate in accordance with
indicators acceptable to the Bank, the progress of the activities carried out
under the Project and the achievement of its objectives;
(iii) 
(A) maintain a financial management system and prepare financial
statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards
acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations,
resources and expenditures related to the activities carried out by the
Project Implementing Entity under the Project; and (B) at the Bank's or
the Borrower's request, have such financial statements audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, and furnish
promptly to the Borrower and the Bank the financial statements as so
audited;
(iv) 
enable the Borrower and the Bank to inspect the activities carried out by
the Project Implementing Entity under the Project, their operation and any
relevant records and documents; and prepare and furnish to the Borrower
and the Bank all such information as the Borrower or the Bank shall
reasonably request relating to the foregoing; and
(v) 
refund any or all part of the amount of the Loan then withdrawn, upon the
Borrower's determination that the Project Implementing Entity has failed
to perform any of its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement or the
Project Agreement.
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the Subsidiary
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
3. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower and the Project Implementing
Entity shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its
provisions.
4. 
In the event of any conflict between the Subsidiary Agreement and the Loan Agreement,
the Loan Agreement, as the case may be, shall prevail.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D. 
Project Implementation Manual
1 .
The Borrower shall prepare or cause to be prepared, in accordance with terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank, a Project implementation manual, containing detailed arrangements
and procedures for: (a) institutional coordination and day-to-day execution of the Project;
-11-
(b) Project budgeting, disbursement and financial management; (c) procurement;
(d) monitoring, evaluation, reporting and communication; (e) environmental and safeguard
management; and (f) such other administrative, financial, technical and organizational
arrangements and procedures as shall be required for the Project.
2. 
The Borrower shall afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to review and approve such
manual, and shall thereafter adopt such manual as shall have been approved by the Bank
("Project Implementation Manual").
3. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project Implementation
Manual and shall, not amend, abrogate, waive, or permit to be amended, abrogated, or
waived, the aforementioned, or any provision of either one thereof, without the prior
written consent of the Bank.
4. 
In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the Project Implementation Manual
and those of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
E. 
Annual Work Plans and Budgets
1. 
Not later than November 30 in each calendar year (or one month after the Effective Date
for the first year of Project implementation), the Borrower shall prepare or cause to be
prepared for the purpose of forwarding to the Bank, a draft annual work plan and budget
for the Project (including Training and Operating Costs) for the subsequent calendar year
of Project implementation, of such scope and detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested.
2. 
The Borrower shall afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to review such draft annual
work plan and budget, and thereafter shall carry out (or cause to be carried out) such annual
work plan and budget during such subsequent calendar year as shall have been approved
by the Bank ("Annual Work Plan and Budget"). Only those activities that are included in
an Annual Work Plan and Budget shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
Loan.
3. 
Any Training proposed to be included in an Annual Work Plan and Budget, shall include,
inter alia: (a) particulars of the Training envisaged; (b) the criteria for selection of the
personnel to be trained, and such personnel if known; (c) the selection method of the
institution or individuals conducting such Training; (d) the institution conducting such
Training if identified; (e) the purpose and justification for such Training; (f) the location
and duration of the proposed training; and (g) the estimate of the cost of such Training.
4. 
Annual Work Plans and Budgets may be revised as needed during Project implementation
subject to the Bank's prior written approval.
F. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall (or cause the Project Implementing Entity to) implement the Project in
accordance with the relevant Safeguards Instruments, and shall, to that end:
-12-
(a) 
if any activity under Part 2 of the Project would require the adoption of a
Supplemental Safeguard Instrument pursuant to a respective Safeguards
Framework Document:
(i) 
prepare: (A) such Supplemental Safeguard Instrument in accordance with
the applicable Safeguards Framework Document; (B) furnish such
Supplemental Safeguard Instrument to the Bank for review and approval;
and (C) thereafter adopt such Supplemental Safeguard Instrument prior to
implementation of the activity; and
(ii) 
thereafter take such measures as shall be necessary or appropriate to ensure
full compliance with the requirements of such Supplemental Safeguard
Instrument; and
(b) 
if any activity under the Project would involve Affected Persons, ensure that no
displacement (including restriction of access to legally designated parks and
protected areas) shall occur and no civil works shall commence before resettlement
measures under the applicable RAP, including, in the case of displacement, full
payment to Affected Persons of compensation and of other assistance required for
relocation, have been taken.
2. 
Without limitation upon its other reporting obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower
shall, for each applicable Safeguard Instrument, regularly collect, compile and furnish to
the Bank reports in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, on the status of compliance
with each applicable Safeguard Instrument, as part of the Project Reports, giving details
of:
(a) 
measures taken in furtherance of such Safeguard Instrument;
(b) 
conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the smooth
implementation of such Safeguard Instrument; and
(c) 
remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such conditions.
3. 
In the event that any provision of the Safeguards Instruments shall conflict with any
provision under this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that:
(a) 
all terms of reference for any technical assistance and studies to be carried out
under the Project are consistent with the Bank's environmental and social
safeguard policies; and
(b) 
in any Project activity that may support the drafting of regulatory instruments for
the purpose of the Project, due attention will be given to said policies.
-13-
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall (and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to) monitor and
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators
acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar
semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end
of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare
and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar
quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form
and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions
of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall
cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for
each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end
of such period.
4. 
Without limitations upon the provisions of the preceding Section II. B.3, the Borrower
shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to recruit, in accordance with the provisions of
Section III of this Schedule 2, not later than six (6) months after the Effective Date, an
external auditor with qualifications, experience and terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank, to carry out the audits referred to in said Section II. B.3, as it relates to the Project.
5. 
In furtherance of the provisions of this Section II.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, not
later than three (3) months after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall cause the Project
Implementing Entity to adapt for the purposes of the project, its computerized multi-project
financial and accounting system in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, and successfully train
relevant staff in the use thereof.
Section I. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
-14-
2. 
Consultants' Services. 
All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to the
corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the Procurement Guidelines, or
Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services
1 .
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in
the Procurement Plan:
Procurement Method
(a) Limited International Bidding
(b) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional procedures set forth in
paragraph 3 below
(c) Shopping
(d) Direct Contracting
(e) Procurement from UN Agencies
3. 
Requirements for the National Competitive Bidding. The procedures to be followed for
National Competitive Bidding shall be those set forth in the Borrower's procurement code
of September 24, 2004, as revised from time to time in a manner deemed acceptable to the
Bank, subject, however, to the modifications described in the following paragraphs
required for compliance with the Procurement Guidelines:
(a) 
in accordance with paragraph 1.16 (e) of the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding
document and contract financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall provide
that: (i) the bidders, suppliers, contractors and their subcontractors, agents,
personnel, consultants, service providers, or suppliers shall permit the Bank, at its
request, to inspect all accounts, records and other documents relating to the
submission of bids and contract performance, and to have said accounts and
records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank; and (ii) the deliberate and
material violation of such provision may amount to an obstructive practice as
defined in paragraph 1.16 (a)(v) of the Procurement Guidelines;
-15-
(b) 
the invitation to bid shall be advertised in national newspapers with wide
circulation;
(c) 
the bid evaluation, qualification of bidders and contract award criteria shall be
clearly indicated in the bidding documents;
(d) 
the bidders shall be given adequate response time (at least four weeks) from the
date of the invitation to bid or the date of availability of a bidding documents,
whichever is later, to prepare and submit their bids;
(e) 
eligible bidders, including foreign bidders, shall be allowed to participate;
(f) 
no domestic preference shall be given to domestic contractors and to domestically
manufactured goods and association with national firm shall not be a condition for
participation in a bidding process;
(g) 
bids are awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder provided that such bidder is
qualified; No scoring system shall be allowed for the evaluation of bids, and no
"blanket" limitation to the number of lots which can be awarded to a bidder shall
apply;
(h) 
qualification criteria shall only concern the bidder's capability and resources to
perform the contract taking into account objective and measurable factors; and
(i) 
fees charged for bidding documents shall be reasonable and reflect only the cost
of printing and delivery to the prospective bidders.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality and
Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following methods, other
than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of consultants'
services for those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan:
Procurement Method
(a) Quality-based Selection
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget
(c) Least Cost Selection
(d) Selection Based on the Consultants' Qualifications
(e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms
(f) Single-source procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants
-16-
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
E. 
Other Commitments Regarding Procurement
Not later than three (3) months after the Effective Date and as needed throughout the
implementation of Project, the Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to
train the procurement staff of the PIU and the SONATREL Tender Board or the Project
Tender Board, as the case may be, in the use of the Bank's procurement procedures in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank Disbursement
Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as
made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures
in each Category.
-17-
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in Euro) 
(exclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, 
non-consulting 
32,700,000 
100%
services, 
consultants'
services, 
Training 
and
Operational 
Costs 
for
Parts 1 and 3 of the Project
(2) Goods, 
works, 
non- 
255,200,000 
100%
consulting services, and
consultants' services for
Part 2 of the Project,
except Part 2(e) of the
Project
(3) Refund of the Preparation 
3,200,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Advance 
Section 2.07 (a) of the General
Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
291,100,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
from the Loan Account (other than to repay the Preparation Advance) until the
Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee; or
(b) 
under Category 2 unless: (i) the Borrower has disclosed (or caused to be disclosed)
all relevant Supplemental Safeguard Instruments and compensated all applicable
Affected Persons as required under the Project in accordance with the provisions
of Section I.F of this Schedule 2 and Section I.E of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement; and (ii) the Project Implementing Entity has recruited the Assistant
Program Manager in accordance with Section I.B.1(d) of this Schedule 2 and
Section I.A.2 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2022.
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
A. 
The Borrower shall provide a letter confirming the allocation of an amount equivalent to
ten million Dollars ($10,000,000) to the Counterpart Funds Account as the initial
installment of the Borrower's financing for the purpose of relocation and compensation of
Affected Persons under Part 2 of the Project ("Commitment Letter").
B. 
Allocation of Project-Related Safeguard Funds
-18-
1. 
Unless otherwise agreed with the Bank, the Borrower shall, beginning in the Fiscal Year
2018 through the end of Project implementation, maintain an allocation in the annual
Budget and Finance Law for the compensation of Affected Persons on the basis of the total
budget expenditures for the compensation of Affected Persons as agreed on an annual basis
with the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower shall on an annual basis, prior to the preparation and approval of the
Borrower's Budget and Finance Law, fix the total budget for expenditures related to the
compensation of Affected Persons in consultation with the Bank.
C. 
Counterpart Funds
Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding Section V.B.1, the Borrower shall:
1. 
maintain, throughout the implementation of the Project, in a financial institution and on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, an account into which it shall deposit all
counterpart funds required for Part 2 (e) of the Project ("Counterpart Funds Account");
2. 
without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.03 of the General Conditions, deposit
into the Counterpart Funds Account: (a) no later than six months after the Effective Date,
an amount equivalent to ten million Dollars ($10,000,000) and; thereafter (b) on a schedule
and in installments agreed with the Bank as reflected in the Annual Work Plan and Budget,
a total additional amount equivalent to forty million Dollars ($40,000,000) for Part 2 (e) of
the Project, all in the Borrower's currency ("Counterpart Funds"); and
3. 
ensure that all Counterpart Funds shall be used exclusively to pay for expenditures required
for said Part 2 (e) of the Project.
D. 
No later than twelve (12) months after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall ensure that
all key elements of the Project Implementing Entity's future Revenue Mechanism
including rate base, rate of return, eligible expenses and related fiscal and or subsidy
provisions have been defined and adopted by the Project Implementing Entity in form and
substance acceptable to the Bank.
E. 
Without limitations upon the provisions of Section 5.03 of the General Conditions, the
Borrower shall waive any and all Taxes, applicable to all Eligible Expenditures under the
Project.
-19-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying:
(a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment
Share for each Principal Payment Date[, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as
necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a
Currency Conversion applies.]
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning May 15, 2024 through May 15, 
2.17%
2046
On November 15, 2046 
2.35%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as
of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding
on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall
-20-
be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating
to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-21-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"AER" means the Borrower's Rural Electrification Agency established pursuant to the
Borrower's Loi No. 98/022 of 24 December 1998, and operating pursuant to the
Borrower's Decret No. 99/193 of 08 September, 1999.
2. 
"Affected Person" means a person who as a result of: (i) the involuntary taking of land
under the Project is affected in any of the following ways: (A) relocation or loss of shelter;
(B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or means of livelihood,
whether or not the affected person must move to another location; or (ii) the involuntary
restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected areas suffers adverse impacts
on his or her livelihood; and "Affected Person" means any of the Affected Persons.
3. 
"Annual Work Plan and Budget" means the annual work plan and budget as prepared by
the Project Implementing Entity and approved by the Bank in accordance with the
provisions of Section I.E of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and Section I.D of the Schedule
to the Project Agreement.
4. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated
October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
5. 
"ARSEL" means the Borrower's electricity sector regulatory entity, established pursuant
to the Borrower's Loi No. 98/022 du 24 dccembre 1998, rigissant le secteur de l'dectriciti,
modified by the Borrower's Loi No. 2011/022 du 14 dicembre 2011 and operating as a
public administration agency pursuant to the Borrower's Loi No. 99/016 du 22 dicembre
1999 portant statut giniral des tablissements publics et des entreprises du secteur public
et parapublic.
6. 
"Assistant Program Manager" means an entity acceptable to the Bank to be retained by the
Project Implementing Entity to assist the Project Implementing Entity with overall
management of the Project Implementing Entity's electricity transmission investment
program and overall business operations pursuant to Section I.B. 1(d) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and Section I.A.2 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
7. 
"Budget and Finance Law" means the Borrower's annual budget as approved by the
Borrower's legal processes, referred to in Section V.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
8. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
9. 
"Commitment Letter" means the letter referred to in Section V.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
-22-
10. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January
2011 (revised July 2014).
11. 
"Counterpart Funds" means an amount of approximately US$50 million to be provided by
the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of Section V.C.2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
12. 
"Counterpart Funds Account" means the account to be opened by the Borrower in
accordance with the provisions of Section V.C. 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
13. 
"ENEO" means a public limited liability company regulated under the Borrower's laws and
registered with the Registre du Commerce et du Credit Mobilier de Douala under No.4624,
and headquartered on Avenue Charles De Gaulle in Douala.
14. 
"Environmental and Social Impact Assessment" or "ESIA" means an assessment to be
carried out by the Borrower for the purposes of Part 2 of the Project, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, to evaluate the Project's potential environmental and social risks
and impacts in its area of influence, including impact on physical cultural resources;
examine alternatives and identify ways of mitigating and managing adverse environmental
and social impact throughout Project implementation, as the same may be amended from
time to time with the agreement of the Bank and such term includes any schedules or
annexes to the assessment.
15. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the framework
disclosed in the Borrower's territory on July 28, 2016 and at the Bank's Infoshop on July
27, 2016, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, outlining environmental and
social implementation procedures, mitigation measures and monitoring procedures for the
Project, as said framework may be amended from time to time with the Bank's prior written
approval, and such term includes any schedules or annexes to the framework.
16. 
"Environmental and Social Management Plan" or "ESMP" means a plan to be prepared by
the Borrower for the purposes of Part 2 of the Project proposing appropriate mitigation,
monitoring and 
institutional measures 
designed to 
mitigate potential adverse
environmental impacts, offset them, reduce them to acceptable levels or enhance positive
impacts, as the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank,
and such term includes any schedules or annexes to the plan.
17. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
18. 
"Indigenous Peoples Plan" and "IPP" mean the plans to be prepared by the Borrower on
the basis of the IPPF, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, defining specific
measures to be implemented for indigenous minorities in order to protect them and to
ensure that members of said minorities be granted equal legal, financial and organizational
opportunities under the Project, as the said plan may be amended and/or supplemented
-23-
from time to time with the prior written consent of the Bank, and such term includes any
schedules to such document.
19. 
"Indigenous Peoples Policy Framework" or "IPPF" means the Borrower's framework
disclosed for the purposes of the Project in the Borrower's territory on July 28, 2016 and
at the Bank's Infoshop on July 27, 2016, outlining measures to ensure culturally
appropriate social and economic benefits for the indigenous peoples under the Project and
avoidance, minimization, or mitigation of, or compensation for, any potential adverse
effects on the indigenous peoples associated with activities to be implemented under the
Project, as the same may be updated from time to time with the prior written consent of the
Bank, and such term includes any schedules to said framework.
20. 
"MINEE" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for energy and water, any successor
thereto.
21. 
"National Transmission Grid Investment Program" means a five year transmission
investment program detailed in the Borrower's power sector development plan and
approved in 2014.
22. 
"Operating Costs" means incremental recurrent expenditures incurred on account of
Project implementation, including: local contractual support staff salaries; travel
expenditures and other travel-related allowances; equipment rental and maintenance;
materials and supplies; and utilities, media information campaigns and communications'
expenses, but excluding the salaries of officials and public servants of the Borrower's civil
service.
23. 
"Owner's Engineer" means an independent third-party engineer acceptable to the Bank to
be retained by the Project Implementing Entity to oversee the design and construction of
the Electricity Infrastructure pursuant to Section I.B. 1(c) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and Section I.A.3 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
24. 
"Preparation Advance" means the advance referred to in Section 2.07 (a) of the General
Conditions, granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed
on behalf of the Bank on October 4, 2016, and on behalf of the Borrower on
October 5, 2016.
25. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
26. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated October
12, 2016 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph
1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
27. 
"Project Implementation Manual" means the manual to be prepared and adopted by the
Project Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Section I.D of Schedule
-24-
2 to this Agreement and Section I.C of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, as the same
may be revised from time to time with the prior written consent of the Bank.
28. 
"Project Implementation Unit" or "PIU" means the unit established within the Project
Implementing Entity pursuant to its Dicision No. 003/SONATREL/DG/CAB portant
crdation, organisation et fonctionnement d'une Unitg de Gestion du Projet de Mise i
niveau et de Diveloppement du Riseau de Transport d'ElectricWit et de Riforme du Secteur
(PMDRTERS) au sein de la Socijtj Nationale de Transport de l'Electriciti (SONATREL),
responsible for the day to day implementation of the Project.
29. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means SONATREL (Socidtd Nationale de Transport de
l'Electricitd), the Borrower's national power transmission utility, established pursuant to
the Project Implementing Entity's Legislation.
30. 
"Project Implementing Entity's Legislation" means the Borrower's D&ret No. 2015/454
du 08 Octobre 2015 portant crdation de la SociWtj Nationale de Transport de l'ElectricitJ
(SONATREL) and Dicret No. 2015/455 du 08 Octobre 2015 portant approbation des
statuts de la Socitj Nationale de Transport de l'Electricit (SONATREL).
31. 
"Project Steering Committee" means the steering committee established by the Borrower,
pursuant to the Borrower's Decret No. 0000585/MTNEE/CAB 
du 21 Novembre 2014
portant creation, organization etfonctionnement d'un Comiti de pilotage du processus de
mise en place de la societe gestionnaire du reseau de transport public de l'electricite au
Cameroun.
32. 
"Project Tender Board" means the special tender board to be established and maintained by
the Borrower and SONATREL in accordance with the provisions of Section I.B. 1(e)(i) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
33. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" or "RAP" means a plan to be prepared by the Borrower for the
purposes of Part 2 of the Project, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, setting
forth the specific modalities for resettlement and compensation of Affected Persons under
the Project, as said document may be amended and/or supplemented from time to time with
the prior written concurrence of the Bank and subject to the initial consultation and
disclosure requirements carried out on the RAP, and such term includes any schedules or
annexes to the plan.
34. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the framework prepared by the
Borrower for the purposes of the Project and disclosed in the Borrower's territory on July
28, 2016 and at the Bank's Infoshop on July 27, 2016, outlining the policies and procedures
to be implemented in the event that specific activities implemented under the Project have
potentially negative impacts on the livelihoods, assets and land of the affected population,
as the said framework may be amended and/or supplemented from time to time with the
prior written consent of the Bank, and such term includes any schedules to such framework.
35. 
"Revenue Mechanism" means a document to be prepared by the Project Implementing
Entity pursuant to Section V.D of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as a public utility entity,
-25-
detailing its unique revenue structure to ensure its sustainability and achievement of its
mandate and obligations.
36. 
"Safeguards Framework Document" means, collectively, the ESMF, RPF and IPPF.
37. 
"Safeguards Instruments" means, collectively, the ESIA, ESMF, RPF, IPPF and any
Supplemental Safeguards Instrument.
38. 
"SONATREL Tender Board" means the tender board established pursuant to the
Borrower's Arrtd No. 0202/A/HNMAP du 11 Aout 2016 portant creation d'une
Comminission interne de passation des marches aupres de la Societe Nationale de
Transport de l'Electricite (SONA TREL), and referred to in Section I.B. 1(e)(ii) of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
39. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan
available to the Project Implementing Entity.
40. 
"Supplemental Safeguards Instrument" means collectively, any ESMP, RAP, IPP or any
other instrument required under the terms of the Safeguards Framework Documents, to be
prepared by the Borrower and approved by the Bank for purposes of Part 2 of the Project,
proposing appropriate mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures designed to
mitigate potential adverse environmental and social impacts, offset them, reduce them to
acceptable levels or enhance positive impacts, as the said plan may be amended and/or
supplemented from time to time with the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
41. 
"Training" means the training of persons under the Project, including through seminars,
workshops, knowledge sharing activities and study tours, and covers the following costs
associated with such activity: travel and subsistence costs for training participants, costs
associated with securing the services of trainers, rental of training facilities, preparation
and reproduction of training materials, and other costs directly related to training
preparation and implementation.
42. 
"Transmission Sub-sector Reform Policy Statement" means the Borrower's statement
dated, August 25, 2016, laying out the key parameters and roadmap for the complete
unbundling of its electricity sector, including the set-up of the third party access model and
operationalization of the Project Implementing Entity.
Section H. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
-26-
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge").
The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the
Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be
payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition
of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01
(a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition
of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and
Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
