OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8770-UZ
Loan Agreement
(Livestock Sector Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 20, 2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8770-UZ
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated September 20, 2017, between REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
("Borrower") 
and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of thirty million Dollars ($30,000,000),
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement
("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to this
Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, however, that the interest payable shall in no event be less than zero
percent (0%) per annum; and provided furthermore that, upon a Conversion of all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the
Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance
-2-
remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty
days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as
provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall carry out the Project through RRA in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
the Bank has received evidence, that it considers credible, of the use of
child or forced labor in connection with the Project activities; and
(b) 
the RRA's Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the RRA
to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: an event specified
in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
the Project Operational Manual, including the Credit Line Investment
Guidelines, has been adopted by the Recipient in a form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank;
(b) 
the Financing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to
make withdrawals under it (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement)
have been fulfilled; and
(c) 
the implementation 
capacity of RRA has been strengthened 
by
employment of financial management, procurement and safeguard
specialists, and by updating of its accounting software in accordance with
the technical requirements and specifications set forth in the Project
Operational Manual.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
-4-
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Mustakilik Square 5
Tashkent 100008
Republic of Uzbekistan
Telex: 
Facsimile:
11 6360 IK BOL 
(998-71) 233-7073
(998-71) 239-1259
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at New York City, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
By
Authorized Representative
Name: DJAMSHID KUCHKAROV
Title: DEPUTY PRIME MINISTER
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: LILIA BURUNCIUC
Title: COUNTRY DIRECTOR
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA REGION
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve livestock sector productivity and access
to market in selected regions of the Borrower.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: Livestock Sector Public Investment Framework and Public Services
Veterinary services improvement, including: (i) provision of technical assistance
to improve the legal framework and strategy for development of the veterinary
services; (ii) provision of Training and equipment to selected public veterinary
agencies to improve disease surveillance and reporting systems, veterinary
diagnostics laboratories and standard operating procedures, vaccine storage and
distribution facilities, public awareness, and rapid response capacity; (iii) carrying
out minor works and provision of equipment for rehabilitation of selected
laboratory facilities; and (iv) provision of technical assistance for studies on border
control and quarantine, veterinary drug regulation and on animal identification,
registration and movement control.
Part B: Credit Line for Private Investments
1. 
Provision, through selected PFIs, of Sub-credits to Beneficiaries.
2. 
Provision of technical assistance and Training to PFIs on sector-specific loan
product development, loan appraisal and monitoring.
Part C: Proiect Coordination, Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
I. 
Strengthening the RRA's capacity for Project management, monitoring and
evaluation, through provision of goods, consultants' services, Training, and
financing of Incremental Operating Costs.
2. 
Conducting Project impact assessments at mid-term Project review and prior to the
Project closure.
3. 
Provision of Training to Beneficiaries on Project related safeguards requirements
and carrying out public awareness campaign on labor practices in agriculture.
-7-
SCHEDULE2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
For the purposes of overall Project management, implementation and coordination
the Recipient shall maintain the RRA until completion of the Project, with staff,
resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and adequate for
successful implementation of the Project.
2. 
The Borrower, through RRA, shall: (i) adopt the Project Operational Manual,
including the Credit Line Investment Guidelines, satisfactory to the Bank, and
setting out, inter alia, the institutional, disbursement, procurement and financial
management (including Project-related internal control, budgeting, external
auditing, financial reporting and accounting policies and procedures) arrangements
for the implementation of the Project; (ii) carry out the Project in accordance with
the Project Operational Manual; and (iii) not amend, suspend, repeal or waive any
of the provisions of the Project Operational Manual without the Bank's prior
written agreement. In case of any discrepancy between the provisions of the Project
Operational Manual and those of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement
shall prevail.
3. 
For the purposes of carrying out Part B.1 of the Project the Borrower, through
RRA, shall: (i) adopt, as a part of the Project Operational Manual, the Credit Line
Investment Guidelines, satisfactory to the Bank, and setting out, inter alia,
eligibility criteria and selection procedures for PFIs, eligibility criteria and
selection procedures for Beneficiaries, financing terms and conditions for
Subsidiary Loans and Sub-credits, fiduciary and reporting requirements applicable
to PFIs and Beneficiaries, procurement procedures and safeguard requirements
applicable to Sub-projects; (ii) carry out Part B. I of the Project in accordance with
the Credit Line Investment Guidelines; and (iii) not amend, suspend, repeal or
waive any of the provisions of the Credit Line Investment Guidelines without the
Bank's prior written agreement. In case of any discrepancy between the provisions
of the Credit Line Investment Guidelines and those of this Agreement, the
provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
B. 
Subsidiary Agreements
1 
To facilitate the carrying out of Part B.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall make
part of the proceeds of the Financing allocated from time to time to Category (2)
of the table set forth in Section IV.A.2 of this Schedule available to each PFI under
a subsidiary agreement between the RRA and the respective PFI ("Subsidiary
-8-
Agreement"), under terms and conditions approved by the Bank, which shall
include, inter alia, the following:
(a) 
a Subsidiary Loan shall be made available to each PFI in Dollars;
(b) 
the principal amount of a Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid by the respective
PFI in Dollars or in Soums in semi-annual installments over a period of up
to twenty (20) years, including a grace period of five (5) years;
(c) 
interest on the outstanding balances of a Subsidiary Loan and other
charges, if applicable, shall be charged at rates acceptable to the Bank;
(d) 
each PFI shall carry out activities under the respective Subsidiary
Agreement in accordance with the Anti-corruption Guidelines; and
(e) 
each 
PFI 
shall 
be 
responsible 
for monitoring 
of Sub-project
implementation and ensuring compliance by Beneficiaries with any
applicable laws and regulations on child and forced labor. In case of
established non-compliance with laws and regulations on child and forced
labor by a Beneficiary utilizing a Sub-credit, said Sub-credit shall be
refunded to the RRA, such a Beneficiary shall be barred from further
borrowings under Part B.1 of the Project, and the respective PFI shall be
disqualified from providing further Sub-credits under Part B.1 of the
Project.
2. 
The RRA shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each
Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Financing.
C. 
Sub-credits
1 .
The Borrower, through the RRA, shall ensure that each PFI provides Sub-credits
to Beneficiaries in accordance with terms and conditions, eligibility criteria and
procedures set forth in the Credit Line Investment Guidelines. Such procedures
shall include, inter alia, environmental screening of the proposed activities and
determining what type of environmental impact assessment has to be carried out
by the Beneficiary, as well as the screening aimed to ensure compliance with
applicable laws and regulations of the Borrower, including those related to child
and forced labor.
2. 
Each Sub-credit shall be provided by a PFI to a Beneficiary under a Sub-credit
Agreement on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and set forth in the
Credit Line Investment Guidelines, which shall, inter alia, include the following:
(a) 
each Sub-credit shall be denominated in Dollars or in Soums;
-9-
(b) 
interest on the principal amount of each Sub-credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time shall be charged by a PFI at the prevailing
interest rate under the respective Subsidiary Agreement of said PFI plus a
market-based spread determined by the PFI in accordance with its
investment and lending policies and practices, and the provisions of the
Credit Line Investment Guidelines;
(c) 
each Sub-credit Agreement shall include provisions adequate to protect
the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, including the right of the RRA
or a PFI to suspend or terminate the right of a Beneficiary to use the
proceeds of the Sub-credit, or declare to be immediately due and payable
all or any part of the amount of the Sub-credit then withdrawn, upon a
Beneficiary's failure to perform any of its obligations under the Sub-Credit
Agreement;
(d) 
each Beneficiary shall:
(A) 
carry out its Sub-project: (i) with due diligence and efficiency and
in accordance 
with sound technical, economic, financial,
managerial, environmental, health and social standards and
practices, satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) in compliance with the
requirements of the Borrower's applicable laws and regulations,
including those on child and forced labor; (iii) in accordance with
the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines; and (iv) in
accordance with the Environmental and Social Management
Framework;
(B) 
provide, promptly as needed, the resources required for the
purposes of a Sub-project;
(C) 
procure the goods, works and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of a Sub-credit in accordance with the provisions of this
Agreement;
(D) 
(i) maintain a financial management system and prepare financial
statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting
standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to a Sub-
project; and (ii) at the Bank's request, have such financial
statements audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards
acceptable to the Bank, and promptly furnish the statements as so
audited to the Borrower and the Bank;
-10-
(E) 
enable the Borrower and the Bank to inspect a Sub-project, its
operation and any relevant records and documents; and
(F) 
prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such
information related to a Sub-project as they shall reasonably
request.
3. 
The Borrower, through RRA, shall ensure that the activities to be financed from a
Sub-credit do not include any land acquisition, displacement of people, and
construction of new or rehabilitation of existing dams.
D. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
E. 
Third Party Monitoring and Feedback Mechanism
1 .
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in compliance with this Agreement,
appropriate social standards and practices and any applicable laws and regulations
on child and/or forced labor, including such compliance by PFIs and Beneficiaries,
and shall, at the beginning of the cotton harvesting season during each year of the
Project implementation, instruct any involved local authorities to ensure strict
compliance with such laws and regulations while organizing cotton harvesting.
2. 
The Borrower shall take all necessary actions, and ensure that necessary actions
are taken, to enable the TPM Consultant to perform monitoring activities in
accordance with the applicable terms of reference, including, but not limited to
allowing and facilitating for the TPM Consultant to visit sites where the Project is
being carried out, collect relevant data and communicate with Project stakeholder
and participants.
3. 
The Borrower shall: (a) review and discuss with the Bank monitoring reports
prepared by the TPM Consultant; and (b) promptly take any actions, as may be
requested by the Bank upon its review of said reports, with respect to compliance
with the undertakings relating to child and/or forced labor as set forth in this
Agreement and the Project Operational Manual.
4. 
The Borrower: (a) shall and shall cause respective local authorities to fully
collaborate with the TPM Consultant in developing an effective grievance redress
mechanism in connection with the Project activities, as set forth in the TPM
Consultant's terms of reference; (b) shall review biannual reports of the TPM
Consultant on grievances received, redress mechanism and any feedback provided;
and (c) shall promptly implement or cause relevant local authorities to implement
the recommendations provided in said reports.
-ll-
F. 
Safeguards
The Borrower, through RRA, shall ensure that the Project, including Sub-projects
under Part B. I of the Project, is implemented pursuant to the provisions of the
Environmental 
and Social 
Management Framework, and a site specific
Environmental Management Plan, if/when necessary, in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank and shall provide the Bank with a summary status of the implementation,
including results from environmental monitoring, as part of Project Reports or
when specifically requested by the Bank.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such
report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1 .
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of
each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering
the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions. 
Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
All goods, works, non-consulting services, consultants' services and expenditures
included in the Incremental Operating Costs category required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreement.
-12-
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"Disbursement Guidelines for Investment Project Financing" dated February
2017, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Category 
Allocated 
financed
(expressed in USD) 
(exclusive of Taxes, other
than Withheld Taxes)
(1) Sub-credits under Part 
29,925,000 
100%
B.1 of the Project
(2) Front-end Fee 
75,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
30,)00
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2022.
-13-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall repay
each Disbursed Amount in semiannual installments payable on each May 15 and
November 15, the first installment to be payable on the eleventh (11th) Payment
Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount and the last
installment to be payable on the fiftieth (50th) Payment Date following the
Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount. Each installment except for the
last one shall be equal to one-fortieth (1/40) of the Disbursed Amount. The last
installment shall be equal to the remaining outstanding amount of the Disbursed
Amount.
2. 
If any one or more installments of principal of the Disbursed Amount would,
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph I of this Schedule, be payable after May
15, 2044, the Borrower shall also pay on such date the aggregate amount of all
such installments.
3. 
The Bank shall notify the Loan Parties of the amortization schedule for each
Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed
Amount.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I through 3 of this Schedule, in the
event of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed Amount to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency.
-14-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1I 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as
of July 1, 2016.
2. 
"Beneficiary" means any individual farmer, dekhan farm, farmers' association,
private livestock farm, agro-firm or agro-processing enterprise that either engages
in or intends to engage with support of Sub-credit in any livestock production
activity, including processing, marketing, distribution, trade, service and
production activities, duly registered pursuant to the laws of the Borrower, selected
to receive a Sub-credit under Part B.1 of the Project in accordance with the criteria
and procedures set forth in the Credit Line Investment Guidelines, and
"Beneficiaries" means the plural thereof.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
4. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
5. 
"Credit Line Investment Guidelines" means the guidelines to be adopted by the
Borrower, through RRA, as a part of the Project Operational Manual, for the
purposes of carrying out Part B.1 of the Project, pursuant to Section 5.01 of this
Agreement and referred to in paragraph 3 of Section L.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of
the Bank.
6. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the
Environmental and Social Management Framework adopted by the RRA on April
10, 2017 for the purposes of the Project that outlines environmental assessment
procedures and mitigation requirements to avoid, minimize or mitigate potential
negative environmental and related social impacts caused by implementation of
the Project, as well as the procedures for: (a) screening Sub-projects based on their
expected impacts on the natural and social environment; (b) evaluating Sub-
project-related risks; and (c) defining a need for preparation and parameters of a
site specific EMP, as may be updated as necessary during the Project
implementation with the Bank's prior written approval.
7. 
"Environmental Management Plan" or "EMP" means a site specific environmental
management plan as may be required pursuant to ESMF to avoid, minimize or
-15-
mitigate potential negative environmental and related social impacts caused by
implementation of the Project or a Sub-project.
8. 
"FBM" or "Feedback Mechanism" means the system aimed to receive grievances
on alleged child and forced labor occurrences that might be associated with the
Project activities or within the Project Area, to be carried out by the TPM
Consultant in accordance with the relevant terms of reference approved by the
Bank.
9. 
"Financing Agreement" means the financing agreement for the Project between
the Borrower and the Association, dated the same date as this Agreement, as such
financing agreement may be amended from time to time. "Financing Agreement"
includes all appendices, schedules and agreements supplemental to the Financing
Agreement.
10. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
I1. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means incremental costs incurred by RRA on
account of the Project coordination, implementation and monitoring, including
expenditures for vehicles operation and maintenance, office supplies and
consumables, utilities, communication, translation and interpretation, bank
charges, Project related travel, including per diem and 
accommodation (but
excluding salaries of the Borrower's civil servants) and other miscellaneous costs
directly associated with the Project implementation, all based on periodic budgets
acceptable to the Bank.
12. 
"MAWR" means the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources of the
Recipient, or any successor thereto.
13. 
"Participating Financial Institution" or "PFI" means a commercial bank or other
financial institution of the Borrower selected to participate in Part B.1 of the
Project in accordance with the eligibility criteria and procedures set forth in the
Credit Line Investment Guidelines, and "Participating Financial Institutions" or
"PFIs" means the plural thereof.
14. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
15. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
April 27, 2017 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines
and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
-16-
16. 
"Project Operational Manual" or "POM" means the Project Operational Manual,
which shall include the Credit Line Investment Guidelines, to be adopted by the
Borrower for the purposes of the Project pursuant to Section 5.01 of this
Agreement, setting forth the operational and administrative responsibilities,
procedures and rules for the implementation of the Project, data collection and
reporting, and which includes a manual of financial management procedures that
sets out procedures for Project accounting, reporting and audit, disbursements,
flow of funds and management of the designated account as the same may be
amended from time to time with the agreement of the Borrower.
17. 
"RRA" means the Rural Restructuring Agency, an independent administrative
body operating under the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and Water
Resources, or any successor thereto.
18. 
"RRA's Legislation" means the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic
of Uzbekistan No. 356 dated August 19, 1998.
19. 
"Soum" means the lawful currency of the Borrower.
20. 
"Sub-credit" means a financing provided or to be provided by a PFI to a
Beneficiary under a Sub-credit Agreement under Part B. I of the Project for the
purposed of financing of all or a portion of a Beneficiary's expenditures under a
Sub-project, and "Sub-credits" means the plural thereof.
21. 
"Sub-credit Agreement" means an agreement entered or to be entered between a
PFI and a Beneficiary for the purposes of provision of a Sub-credit under Part B. I
of the Project, and "Sub-credit Agreements" means the plural thereof.
22. 
"Sub-project" means a set of livestock related investment activities to be
implemented by a Beneficiary and selected to be financed by a Sub-credit in
accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth in the Credit Line Investment
Guidelines, and "Sub-projects" means the plural thereof.
23. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means any agreement between the RRA and a PFI
referred to in Section L.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the
Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the Financing available to a PFI for
the purposes of provision of Sub-credits to Beneficiaries, and "Subsidiary
Agreements" means the plural thereof.
24. 
"Subsidiary Loan" means any loan made by the RRA to a PFI under a Subsidiary
Agreement, and "Subsidiary Loans" means the plural thereof.
25. 
"TPM" or "Third Party Monitoring" means monitoring activity (including, inter
alia, periodic site visits; assessments of local context and conditions; interviews,
awareness raising and training preparation of report) to be carried out by the TPM
-17-
Consultant with the purpose of detecting any occurrence of child or forced labor
in connection with the Project activities, and confirming compliance with
applicable laws and regulations on child and forced labor, all in accordance with
the relevant terms of reference approved by the Borrower.
26. 
"TPM Consultant" means an entity with internationally recognized expertise in
social audit and monitoring and evaluation of development projects, to be procured
by the Borrower for carrying out the TPM and FBM in accordance with relevant
terms of reference approved by the Bank.
27. 
"Training" means Project related study tours, training courses, seminars,
workshops and other training activities, not included under service providers'
contracts, including costs of training materials, space and equipment rental, travel,
accommodation and per diem costs of trainees and trainers, trainers' fees, and other
training related miscellaneous costs.
28. 
"Withheld Taxes" means the following taxes withheld at source: taxes for social
charges; income taxes for residents and non-residents; and custom registrations
duties withheld at the source.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1 .
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan
amount at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement
(the "Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective
dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan
Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-
annually in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
-18-
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified
in the Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
