OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8746-IN
Loan Agreement
(Madhya Pradesh Urban Development Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
SMg 
Az 
,2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8746-IN
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
& 
/6 
, 2017, between India ("Borrower") and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred and sixteen million two hundred thousand
Dollars ($116,200,000) as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement
("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to this Agreement
("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e)
of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
-2-
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest
rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the
Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.09. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Excess Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph
(b)(i) of this Section) for each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure
Surcharge (if any) shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during which
the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit, the product of:
(A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the ratio of all (or, if the Bank
so determines, a portion) of the Loan to the aggregate amount of all (or the
equivalent portions) of the loans made by the Bank to the Borrower and to
other borrowers guaranteed by the Guarantor that are also subject to an
exposure surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined
from time to time by the Bank.
-3 -
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the Bank's
financial exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded, would subject the
Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined from time to time by the
Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total financial
exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall cause Madhya Pradesh to carry out its respective activities under the
Project, and shall cause Madhya Pradesh to ensure that MPUDC shall carry out its
respective activities under the Project, in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions, the Project Agreement, and the Operations Manual.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project
is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: A situation has arisen which
shall make it improbable that the MPUDC will be able to carry out its obligations under
the Project.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is any of the following: Secretary, Additional Secretary,
Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department of
Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Recipient.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Secretary
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance, Government of India
North Block
New Delhi 110001, India
Facsimile:
91-11-23092039
-4-
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGRFED at 
_, 
India, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By 
_( 
6u-,9
Authorized Representative
Name: 9
Title: 
VS.a 
ect-ee
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name:__'' 
at)T 
f-4C 
oA
Title: 
COVAJMX 
/A3LIA
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to enhance the capacity of MPUDC to improve coverage of
key urban services and increase the revenue of Participating Urban Local Bodies.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A. 
Institutional Development
I. 
Strengthening the Municipal Reforms Cell to support urban policy reforms linked to the
implementation and sustainability of municipal investments.
2. 
Technical and project management assistance to MPUDC to strengthen its institutional
capacity; build management capacity for Project implementation; and develop a regional
urban and economic development plan and related investment proposals for the BISCO
region.
Part B. 
Urban Investments
1. 
Financing Sub Projects in Participating ULBs covering a range of urban services.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section 1. 
Implementation Arraneements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the
Loan available to Madhya Pradesh in accordance with the Borrower's standard
arrangements for developmental assistance to the States of India. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, in the event that any provision of this Agreement or the Project Agreement,
including the instructions that the Bank shall have specified by notice to the Borrower
pursuant to Section IV.A. I of this Schedule, were to be found inconsistent with the
Borrower's standard arrangements for development assistance to the States of India, the
provisions of this Agreement, the Project Agreement and related instructions shall govern.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause Madhya Pradesh to, or shall cause Madhya Pradesh to ensure
that MPUDC, its ULBs, SPVs, and the Project Operators, take all necessary steps to ensure
that all Project activities are implemented in accordance with the Schedule to the Project
Agreement, the Operations Manual, the applicable TPIAs, and the Safeguards Documents.
The Borrower shall cause Madhya Pradesh to refrain, or shall cause Madhya Pradesh to
ensure that MPUDC refrains from taking any action which would prevent or interfere with
its, any ULB's, any SPV's or any Project Operator's implementation of the foregoing
documents, including any amendment, suspension, waiver, annulment and/or voidance of
any provision of such documents, whether in whole or in part, without the prior written
concurrence of the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause Madhya Pradesh to make available the Loan proceeds and
adequate resources from its own funds to MPUDC in accordance with the Project
Agreement and the Operations Manual and the TPIAs.
4. 
The Borrower shall cause Madhya Pradesh to ensure that MPUDC is adequately capitalized
and operates with such resources, powers, functions, staffing, and expertise acceptable to
the Bank, as required to carry out the Project and shall cause Madhya Pradesh to exercise
the general oversight of the implementation of Project activities.
5. 
The Borrower shall cause Madhya Pradesh to ensure that MPUDC enters into a TPIA with
each Participating ULB before MPUDC shall award any contract for any Sub Project
relating to that ULB. The Borrower shall cause Madhya Pradesh to ensure that each TPIA
shall set out the roles and responsibilities of each agency concerning Project
implementation and authorize Madhya Pradesh to reimburse MPUDC from the
Participating ULB's allocated resources if such ULB defaults in paying its agreed capital,
operational, or maintenance contributions for any Sub Project. The Borrower shall cause
Madhya Pradesh to ensure that neither MPUDC nor any Participating ULB shall amend,
obviate or waive its respective TPIA, in whole or in part, without the prior written
agreement of the Bank.
-7-
B. 
Sub Projects
1. 
The Borrower shall cause Madhya Pradesh to ensure, through MPUDC, that Loan proceeds
are utilized exclusively for Sub Projects, which are selected in accordance with eligibility
criteria and procedures acceptable to the Bank and set out in the Operations Manual.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause Madhya Pradesh to ensure, through MPUDC, that financing for
Sub Projects are provided on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, which shall
include rights adequate to protect Madhya Pradesh's and MPUDC's interests and those of
the Borrower and the Bank as required by the Operations Manual and Section I.B of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall cause Madhya Pradesh to ensure that its departments and agencies,
including MPUDC, each Participating ULB, each SPV and each Project Operator shall:
(a) 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Operations Manual, the Environmental
and Social Management Framework, the Environmental Management Plans, the
Resettlement 
Policy 
Framework, 
the 
Indigenous 
Peoples 
Management
Framework, the Resettlement Action Plans, and each additional Safeguards
Assessment or Plan, collectively referred to as the Safeguards Documents, in each
case in a manner and in substance satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b) 
refrain from taking any action which would prevent or interfere with the
implementation of the Safeguard Documents, including any amendment,
suspension, waiver, and/or voidance of any provision of the Safeguard Documents,
whether in whole or in part, without the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower, together with Madhya Pradesh, as the case may be, shall monitor and
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators
agreed with the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester,
and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one month after the end of the period
covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
-8-
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall or shall
cause Madhya Pradesh to ensure that MPUDC prepares and furnishes to the Bank not later
than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for
the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall or shall cause Madhya Pradesh to ensure that MPUDC has the
Financial Statements for the Project audited in accordance with the provisions of Section
5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the
period of one fiscal year of Madhya Pradesh, commencing with the fiscal year in which the
first withdrawal was made under the Project. The audited Financial Statements for each
such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than nine (9) months after the end of
such period.
Section IH. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works, and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. 
All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to the
corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the Procurement Guidelines, or
Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
goods, works, and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures.
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works, and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) Limited International Bidding; (b) National Competitive
Bidding, subject to additional provisions agreed upon from time to time between the
Borrower and the Bank and set forth in the Procurement Plan; (c) Shopping; (d)
-9-
procurement under Framework Agreements in accordance with procedures which have
been found acceptable to the Bank; (e) Direct Contracting; (f) Force Account; (g) Well-
established Private Sector Procurement Methods or Commercial Practices which have been
found acceptable to the Bank; (h) Procurement under Public Private Partnership
Arrangements in accordance with procedures which have been found acceptable to the
Bank; and (i) Community Participation procedures which have been found acceptable to
the Bank.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality and
Cost-based Selection, subject to the following additional procedures, namely, that Standard
Request for Proposal 
and Procedures approved by the Bank shall be used. The
Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such method may be used.
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following methods, other
than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of consultants'
services for those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based
Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; (d) Selection based
on Consultants' Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f)
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the
Selection of Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank Disbursement
Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as
made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures
in each Category.
-10-
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, Works,
Consultants' Services, 
115,909,500 
70%
Training, Operating
Costs.
Amount payable pursuant to
(2) Front-end Fee 
290,500 
Section 
2.03 
of 
this
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions
Amount 
due 
pursuant to
(3) Interest 
Rate 
Cap 
or 
0 
Section 
2.08(c) 
of 
this
Interest 
Rate 
Collar 
Agreement
premium
TOTAL AMOUNT 
116,200,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $23,200,000 may be made for payments made prior to this
date but on or after June 1, 2016 for Eligible Expenditures.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2022.
- 11 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall repay each
Disbursed Amount in semiannual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15, the
first installment to be payable on the eleventh (1Ith) Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing
Date for the Disbursed Amount and the last installment to be payable on the fiftieth (50th) Payment
Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount. The following table sets forth
the percentage of the Disbursed Amount payable on each Principal Payment Date.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
First 
1.48%
Second 
1.52%
Third 
1,56%
Fourth 
1.59%
Fifth 
1.63%
Sixth 
1.67%
Seventh 
1.72%
Eighth 
1.76%
Ninth 
1.8%
Tenth 
1.85%
Eleventh 
1.89%
Twelfth 
1.94%
Thirteenth 
1.99%
Fourteenth 
2.04%
Fifteenth 
2.09%
Sixteenth 
2.14%
Seventeenth 
2.20%
Eighteenth 
2.25%
Nineteenth 
2.31%
Twentieth 
2.37%
Twenty-first 
2.43%
Twenty-second 
2.49%
Twenty-third 
2.55%
Twenty-fourth 
2.61%
Twenty-fifth 
2.68%
Twenty-sixth 
2.74%
Twenty-seventh 
2.81%
Twenty-eight 
2.88%
Twenty-ninth 
2.95%
Thirtieth 
3.03%
Thirty-first 
3.10%
Thirty-second 
3.18%
-12-
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
Thirty-third 
3.26%
Thirty-fourth 
3.34%
Thirty-fifth 
3.43%
Thirty-sixth 
3.51%
Thirty-seventh 
3.60%
Thirty-eighth 
3.69%
Thirty-ninth 
3.78%
Fortieth 
4.14%
2. 
If any one or more installments of principal of the Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to
the provisions of paragraph I of this Schedule, be payable after August 15, 2047, the Borrower
shall also pay on such date the aggregate amount of all such installments.
3. 
The Bank shall notify the Loan Parties of the amortization schedule for each Disbursed
Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I through 3 of this Schedule, in the event of
a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed Amount to an Approved Currency, the
amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal Payment Date
occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such
amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank
under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines
in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan
Currency.
- 13-
APPENDIX
Section 1. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated
October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"BISCO" means the Bhopal-lndore Super Corridor region of Madhya Pradesh.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
4. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants
under IBRD) Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January
2011 (revised July 2014).
5. 
"Empowered and Executive Committee" means the committee comprising senior
government officials from various departments that is constituted by the Government of
Madhya Pradesh with terms of reference agreed with the Bank and outlined in the
Operations Manual for the purpose of, among other things, approving Sub Projects whose
value exceeds applicable thresholds indicated in the Operations Manual.
6. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" means the framework adopted by
MPUDC for the Project and disclosed in the Bank's Infoshop on October 21, 2016,
respectively and incorporAed into MPUDC Operations Manual, which addresses
environmental and social impacts resulting, or likely to result from the carrying out of the
Project and as such a framework may be revised, updated or supplemented, from time to
time, with the prior written concurrence of the BanLc
7. 
"Environmental Management Plans" means the plans prepared for Sub Projects under the
Environmental and Social Management Framework including the plan dated July 19, 2016
for the Khargone Water Supply; the plan dated July 19, 2016 for the Burhanpur Water
Supply; and the plan dated July 19, 2016 for the Chhindwara Sewarage Sub Projects that
were each disclosed in the Bank's Infoshop on October 21, 2016 and any additional such
plans to be prepared for other Sub Projects under the Environmental and Social
Management 
Framework 
and comprising 
measures to mitigate 
and minimize
environmental impacts and protect environmental, community and cultural properties, as
such plans may be amended from time to time with the Bank's prior written agreement.
8. 
"Fiscal Year" or "FY" means the Borrower's and Madhya Pradesh's fiscal year, beginning
on April 1 of any calendar year and ending on March 31 of the following calendar year.
9. 
"GRM" means the grievance redress mechanism to be established or strengthened by the
Madhya Pradesh under the Project Agreement.
- 14-
10. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
11. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the incremental costs incurred by Madhya Pradesh,
MPUDC, or MRC for carrying out the Project including salaries of contractual staff
appointed and staff deputed to the Project, office rent and utilities, office and equipment
maintenance and repair, vehicle operating and maintenance costs, communication and
travel, and other incidental and necessary expenditures in connection with the Project.
12. 
"Indigenous Peoples Management Framework" means the framework prepared as part of
the Environmental and Social Management Framework to promote the effective
participation of indigenous peoples in the Project.
13. 
"Madhya Pradesh" means the Borrower's State of Madhya Pradesh or any successor(s)
thereto.
14. 
"Madhya Pradesh Urban Development Co. Limited" and the acronym "MPUDC" mean
Madhya Pradesh Urban Development Co. Limited, a state-owned corporation registered
and operating under the Borrower's Companies Act of 2013, or any successor thereto.
15. 
"Municipal Reforms Cell" means the cell constituted in Madhya Pradesh's Urban
Administration and Development Directorate.
16. 
"Operations Manual" means MPUDC's manual dated March 9, 2017 with protocols,
policies, and procedures that will be applied to carry out the Project including any
amendments or modifications thereto with the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
17. 
"Operator Contract" means each contract between MPUDC and a Project Operator, in form
and substance satisfactory to the Bank and meeting the requirements set out in the
Operations Manual, for carrying out Project activities.
18. 
"Participating Urban Local Body" and "Participating ULB" mean each city or urban area
in Madhya Pradesh that has been found eligible by the Bank and Madhya Pradesh or
MPUDC, as the case may be, to participate in the implementation of a Sub Project under
Part B.1 of the Project in accordance with eligibility criteria set out in the Operations
Manual.
19. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-
consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
20. 
"Procurement Plan" means Madhya Pradesh's procurement plan for the Project, dated
March 8, 2017 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
- 15 -
21. 
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank, Madhya Pradesh, and
MPUDC of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
22. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means Madhya Pradesh or MPUDC as the case may be.
23. 
"Project Operator" means a contractor appointed under an Operator Contract to carry out
Project activities in accordance with the Operations Manual, and the term "Project
Operators" means the plural thereof.
24. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" means the framework, dated October 21, 2016, prepared
as part of the Environmental and Social Management Framework to handle any potential
resettlement and rehabilitation of Project affected persons, the processing of complaints
and grievance redress and other related matters, as may be amended from time to time with
the Bank's prior written consent.
25. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" means plans prepared for Sub Projects, where necessary, under
the Resettlement Policy Framework to handle any resettlement and rehabilitation of Project
affected persons, the processing of complaints and grievance redress and other related
matters, as may be amended from time to time with the Bank's prior written agreement.
26. 
'Safeguards Assessment or Plan" means each Environmental and Social Assessment or
plan or other ancillary document required to be prepared in for Sub Projects or any other
Project activity in accordance with the Environmental and Social Management Framework.
27. 
"Safeguards Document" means, collectively, the Environmental and Social Management
Framework, each Environmental and Social Assessment, Environmental Management
Plan, the Resettlement Policy Framework, the Indigenous Peoples Management
Framework, each Resettlement Action Plan, and each additional Safeguards Assessment
or Plan required thereunder.
28. 
"Sub Project" means an activity under Part B.1 of the Project that is carried out or
implemented in a Participating ULB in accordance with the Operations Manual.
29. 
"ULB" means an urban local body established pursuant to the Madhya Pradesh
Municipalities Act 1961 or the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporations Act 1956
including Participating ULBs involved with Sub Projects under Part B.1 of the Project and
other ULBs involved with Project activities.
30. 
"Technical Clearance and Tender Committee" means the committee comprising senior
government officials from various departments that is constituted by the Government of
Madhya Pradesh with terms of reference agreed with the Bank and outlined in the
Operations Manual for the purpose of, among other things, approving Sub Projects whose
value is below applicable thresholds indicated in the Operations Manual.
31. 
"TPIA" means each Tripartite Project Implementation Agreement among Madhya Pradesh,
MPUDC, and a Participating ULB that sets out the roles and responsibilities of each agency
-16-
concerning Project implementation and authorizes Madhya Pradesh to reimburse MPUDC
from the ULB's allocated resources if the Participating ULB defaults in paying its agreed
capital or operational or maintenance contributions for the Sub Project.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
I. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(b) The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(c) The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually
in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition
of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01
(a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition
of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows in order to include "surcharge":
"68. 
'Loan Payment' means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, interest at the
Default Interest Rate (if any), the Commitment Charge, any surcharge, any prepayment
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
-17-
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and
Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
