OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8797-
Loan Agreement
(Tamil Nadu Irrigated Agriculture Modernization Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8797-CN
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated as of the Signature Date, between INDIA ("Borrower") and
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT
("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE I -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of three hundred and eighteen
million Dollars (US$ 318,000,000) ("Loan"), to assist the project described in
Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is equal to one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan
amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is equal to one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum
on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2,05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may
apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(c) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
2.08 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure
Limit (as said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of
this Section), the Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of
-2-
one half of one percent (0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess
Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for
each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if any)
shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set
forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during
which the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit,
the product of: (A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the
ratio of all (or, if the Bank so determines, a portion) of the Loan
to the aggregate amount of all (or the equivalent portions) of the
loans made by the Bank to the Borrower and to other borrowers
guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an exposure
surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined from
time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the
Bank's financial exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded,
would subject the Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined
from time to time by the Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total
financial exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by
the Bank.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Borrower's State of
Tamil Nadu (Project Implementing Entity) with the assistance of other
Participating Implementing Agencies, in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions, Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the Project
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of the
Signature Date.
-3-
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is any of the following officials acting severally:
the Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary,
or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs of the Borrower's
Ministry of Finance.
5.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) the Borrower's Address is:
Secretary
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
Government of India
North Block
New Delhi 110 001, India; and
(b) the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
e-mail:
secy-dea@nic.in
5.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions,
(a) the Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile:
1-202-477-6391
e-Mail:
jahmad@worldbank.org
-4-
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
INDIA
By
Au&rized Representative
Name: 
XUP4,AA KHA*X
Title: VTAA 
57CAeMA
Date: 4C&.5dd 
",go/;
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
UJ 
Authorized Repres tativet
Name: 
ZW4" t. 6'.--f&vIST
Title: Ac-G'J4 40U4I1> V(, /A ; 
A
Date: 
eCZ660&- *96. "If7
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to enhance productivity and climate resilience of
irrigated agriculture, improve water management, and increase market opportunities for
farmers and agro-entrepreneurs in selected sub-basin areas of Tamil Nadu.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A. 
Irrigation and Water Management
A. 
Institutional strengthening and capacity building for water management
Activities to be supported include:
1. 
Strengthening, modernizing, and carrying out capacity building activities for WRD
and related agencies, including the SWaRMA, IWS and SG&SWDC, including
provision of technical assistance for studies of ICT-based technologies and river-
basin master plans; training of officers; provision of equipment, services and
institutional infrastructure to support data collection and analysis; building of a
modern knowledge base; development of modern ICT-enabled knowledge
products and services; policy analysis; partnerships to support awareness-building;
institutional synergy; and decision support.
2. 
Development of an e-Water Resource Department mobile application to facilitate
customized access for technical staff, WUAs and the public to relevant data
services, documents, and mapping services that draw upon curated data and real-
time information from in-situ monitoring and earth observation.
3. 
Implementation of a pilot for monitoring services to support improved water
resources and irrigated agriculture management.
4. 
Improvement of operation and maintenance for irrigation systems, including
improving the information and analytical tools and capacity for system operation,
updating of norms for operation and maintenance, improving estimation of
operation and maintenance real needs with actual allocations, and improving
operation and maintenance benchmarking.
A.2 
Irrigation systems modernization
Activities to be supported include:
-6-
1. 
Rehabilitation and modernization of irrigation infrastructure by WRD or selected
WUAs, 
based 
on 
individual 
sub-basin 
development 
plans, 
including
modernization of control structures (diversion weirs), supply channels, cross-
masonry structures; construction of recharge well structures; strengthening and
upgrading of tank bunds; installation of flow measurement devices; upgrading of
distribution systems; and improvement of irrigation and drainage canals.
2. 
Undertaking quality check of rehabilitation works, through introduction of O.K.
card system, conducting and documenting specified frequency quality control tests
by WRD, deploying non-nuclear density testing devices for on-site determination
of compaction parameters, utilizing mobile quality control laboratories of the
WRD for expediting testing of inputs and outputs, and hiring third-party
construction quality consultancies.
3. 
Undertaking on farm development works, including concrete lining of irrigation
channels and desilting of irrigation channels, in order to improve irrigation water
delivery to farmers.
4. 
Improvement of operation and maintenance for irrigation infrastructure systems,
including tanks, anicuts, canals and associated drainage.
A.3 
Participatory irrigation management
Activities to be supported include:
I. 
Establishing a Participatory Irrigation Management (PIM) wing within the WRD
to operate as the main unit for all PIM and WUA related activities and supporting
such wing in developing tools for monitoring, assessing and conducting regular
performance assessments for PIM staff and WUAs, and strengthening and
operationalizing a sustainable PIM model within the WRD and its four regional
offices.
2. 
Establishing WUAs to improve the involvement of water users in management and
operation, and maintenance of irrigation system.
3. 
Providing training and capacity building assistance to WUAs, including training
on operation and maintenance of irrigation systems.
4. 
Improvement of operation and maintenance for irrigation systems, including
improving budgeting in the Enterprise Information Management System, timely
repair/modernization, and improving participatory irrigation management, and
training WUAs in preparation of operation and maintenance budgets, collecting
WUA subscription fees and canying out maintenance activities.
-7-
A.4 
Convergence for improved service delivery
Activities to be supported include:
1. 
Establishing and strengthening SWIKCs in selected model villages, including by
providing administrative and operation cost support for their field staff, in order to
facilitate CCWM at the village level.
2. 
Capacity building for stakeholders and farmer communities to enable them to
prepare a community-level action plan for optimum use of water.
Part B. 
Agriculture Productivity Enhancement, Diversification, Improved
Livelihoods, Marketing and Value Addition
B.1 
Agriculture intensification and diversification
Activities to be supported include:
1. 
Upgrading and dissemination of technologies and agronomic and management
practices 
for 
crops 
and 
horticulture 
through productive 
investments,
demonstrations, awareness building, capacity building, training activities for
producers and government staff, including:
(a) 
promotion 
of cultivation 
of high-yielding, 
short-duration 
crop
varieties/hybrids and complementary agronomic practices;
(b) 
support to demand-driven micro-irrigation schemes;
(c) 
testing, demonstration and dissemination of promising crop husbandry
practices, 
water management 
technologies 
and 
integrated 
crop
management;
(d) 
promotion of cultivation of pulses, including identification of technology
gaps, evaluation and demonstration of technology options, mobilization of
pulse producer groups, provision of high-quality seeds and production
technologies to producer groups, training of producer groups in
postharvest value addition, and undertaking quality seed production under
farmers' participation approach;
(e) 
promotion of accelerated diversification from a mono crop paddy system
to a mixed cropping system including high-value crops (fruits, vegetables
and spices), pulses, oilseeds and millets, including promotion of modern
technologies, facilitating better linkages between farmers and markets,
postharvest management and value addition;
-8-
(f) 
identification of technology 
gaps resulting in low productivity,
demonstration and dissemination of crop husbandry best practices and
water management technologies;
(g) 
promotion of and productive investments in resource saving technologies
and practices, such as micro-irrigation, integrated soil fertility and nutrient
management, system of rice intensification, sustainable sugarcane
initiative, research and development of new drought-resistant seed
varieties, pest management, organic farming techniques, and precision
farming techniques;
(h) 
development of horticulture, including provision of assured irrigation for
horticulture crops in select areas, promotion of use of seeds of improved
varieties and production practices, and adoption of appropriate agronomic
and irrigation practices;
(i) 
promotion of protected cultivation of flowers and vegetables, including
construction of poly greenhouses and demonstration of mulching
technology;
(j) 
training and capacity building for farmers in latest crop production
technologies and other practices, through farmer field schools, on-site
trainings, cluster-level trainings for farmers and exposure visits to other
states;
(k) 
undertaking crop optimization ICT pilot;
(1) 
strengthening of market intelligence network to provide price forecasts to
farmers before the sowing of crops;
(m) 
expansion of farmer database to provide farmers with price and other
information through short message services or other methods;
(n) 
strengthening and promotion of e-agriculture platform for two-way
farmer-scientist interaction covering crops, horticulture, livestock and fish
production; and
(o) 
piloting of remote sensing and geographic information system application
for geo-tagging at selected sub-basins.
-9-
B.2 
Improving alternative livelihood sources through livestock and inland
fisheries
Activities to be supported include:
1. 
Enhancing performance of livestock by: (i) adoption of sustainable and climate
resilient animal husbandry technologies; (ii) formation of dairy interest groups
with a focus on women and dissemination of technology through such groups; (iii)
strengthening of input supply, extension, service delivery systems and
infrastructure; (iv) validation of precision-balanced feeding technology and use of
precision mineral feeding to reduce greenhouse gas emission; (v) strengthening of
breeding programs and artificial insemination networks, including setting up of
new mobile artificial insemination centers, fodder development and preservation,
disease surveillance, calf management, mastitis control, and field veterinary
institutions and animal disease intelligence units; (vi) improved information
management, through establishment of ICT infrastructure 
for enhanced
management information system and animal identification system and distribution
of animal identify cards; (vii) undertaking innovative and climate-resilient
validation trial in supplementing critical nutrients and production of mineral salt
licks by dairy interest groups in an entrepreneurial mode; (viii) capacity
development programs for Department of Animal Husbandry officers in infertility
management, mastitis control methods and other critical areas of knowledge gap;
and (ix) provision of veterinary equipment to select Department of Animal
Husbandry institutions at the field level for improving better service delivery to
the farmers.
2. 
Improving fish productivity in tanks and ponds through demonstrations of climate
resilient modem technology packages; improved fish tank management; enhanced
production models using fast-growing fish varieties; introduction of suitably
formulated fish feed using locally available ingredients; promotion of innovative
technologies and good aquaculture practices; production and supply of quality
fingerlings through private farms; implementation of culture-cum-capture models
for irrigation tanks; support to fish farmers in value chains; facilitation of better
market links through development and enhancement of value chains and
establishment of fish kiosks; upgrading of technology, breed quality and
management practices of dairy and fisheries; demonstrations, training and capacity
building of producers and line department staff- upgrading of research and
extension infrastructures; training to fishers, transporters, processors, handlers,
wholesalers and retailers in product safety procedures; and institutional capacity
enhancement for quality control in fish feed and seed certification by strengthening
knowledge and skills.
-10-
B3 
Agriculture marketing, value addition and post-harvest management
Activities to be supported include:
1. 
Establishing commodity groups and FPOs, providing capacity building and
business expansion support to existing FPOs, and providing market link services
to FPOs.
2. 
Providing grants to finance demand-driven investments to FPOs:
3. 
Providing business advisory, credit facilitation and market facilitation services to
agro-entrepreneurs, especially women agro-entrepreneurs.
4. 
Supporting productive postharvest management infrastructure, and agriculture
enterprise development.
5. 
Modemizing, automating and digitizing traditional market channels, including
launching of smart agri-marketing hubs to introduce such practices through mobile
and wireless platforms.
6. 
Supporting studies, management strengthening, and innovations for improved
service delivery and results.
7. 
Piloting e-negotiable warehouse receipt model for mitigating price risk for farmers
accessing regulated markets and other storage points, including providing finance
investment support for warehouse rehabilitation/development, providing support
for coordination, providing support for farmer's enrollment, and providing
evaluation support.
8. 
Supporting e-agriculture platform, crop optimization and geo-tagging to build
localized problem-solving knowledge services.
9. 
Providing support to the operation of the agri-business promotion facility to foster
backward and forward linkages in the value chains for agricultural products, and
providing technical advisory services to facilitate access to finance for agri-
business entrepreneurs.
10. 
Monitoring FPOs and agri-enterprises through cell-phone applications.
11. 
Training and capacity building of line department staff, including training in
agribusiness, agriculture marketing, supply chain management and other relevant
areas; undertaking domestic and international exposure and learning visits; and
providing technical advisory services.
-11-
Part C. 
Project Management Support
1. 
Establishment of MDPU and its capacity building to support management and
coordination of various activities under the Project.
2. 
Establishment of monitoring and evaluation system for the Project, and contracting
an external agency to monitor Project activities and impact.
3. 
Coordination of innovative application of ICT, including through enhancement of
Geographic Information System (GIS)-enabled web-based water resources
information system, and provision of continued 
support and necessary
enhancement to the management information system for the Project.
Part D. 
Contingency Emergency Response
1. 
Provision of immediate response in case of an Eligible Crisis or Emergency, as
needed.
-12-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds
of the Loan available to the State of Tamil Nadu in accordance with the Borrower's
standard arrangements for developmental assistance to the States of India.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that any provision of this Agreement,
including the instructions that the Bank shall have specified pursuant to Sections
2.01(b) or 2.04(b) of the General Conditions, were to be found inconsistent with
the Borrower's standard arrangements for development assistance to the States of
India, the provisions of this Agreement and related instructions shall govern.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the State of Tamil Nadu to make available the Loan
proceeds to Participating Implementing Agencies in accordance with the PIP.
3. 
The Borrower shall at all times protect its own interests and the interests of the
Bank to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
Section II. 
Project Monitodae Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall, through the State of Tamil Nadu, furnish to the Bank each
semi-annual Project Report not later than one month after the end of six months,
covering the calendar semester.
Section II1. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
1. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article U of the General Conditions and
in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the
Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible
Expenditures; and (b) pay: (i) the Front-end Fee; and (ii) Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar premium; in the amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the
percentage set forth against each category of the following table:
-13-
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) 
financed
(Inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non- 
313,805,000 
70%
consulting services,
training and Workshops,
consulting services for
the Project, and operating
costs, for the Prject
(2) Grants under Part B.3 of 
3,400,000 
70/o
the Project
(3) Emergency Expenditures 
0 
100%
for the CER Component
(4) Front-end Fee 
795,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(5) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar 
Section 
4.05(c) of the
premium 
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
318,000,000
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up
to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$ 63,500,000 may be made for
payments made prior to this date but not before December 15, 2016, for
Eligible Expenditures under Category (1);
(b) 
under Category (2) unless the Project Implementing Entity has submitted
evidence acceptable to the Bank confirming that it has adopted the FPO
Manual in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and
(c) 
under Category (3), unless and until the Bank is satisfied, and has notified
the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity of its satisfaction, that
all of the following conditions have been met:
(i) 
(A) the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity have both
determined that an Eligible Crisis or Emergency has occurred; (B)
the Project Implementing Entity has furnished to the Bank a
request through the Borrower to include certain activities in the
-14-
CER Component in order to respond to said Eligible Crisis or
Emergency; and (C) the Bank has agreed with such determination,
accepted said request, and notified the Borrower and the Project
Implementing Entity thereof;
(ii) 
the Project Implementing Entity has prepared and disclosed all
safeguard instruments, acceptable to the Bank, required for said
activities, and have implemented any actions which are required
to be taken under said instruments all in accordance with the
provisions of Section I.E. I (aXvii) of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement;
(iii) 
the Project Implementing Entity has provided sufficient evidence
satisfactory to the Bank, that the Coordinating Authority has
adequate staff and resources in accordance with the provisions of
Section I.E.2 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, for
purposes of said activities.
(iv) 
the Project Implementing Entity has adopted the CERC Annex, as
part of the PIP in form, substance and manner acceptable to the
Bank; and the provisions of said annex remain, or have been
updated in accordance with Section 1. E. I (a) of the Schedule to
the Project Agreement so as to be, appropriate for the inclusion
and implementation of said activities under the respective CER
Component.
(v) 
the Project Implementing Entity has prepared and submitted to the
Bank a CERIP, in form, substance and manner acceptable to the
Bank, and the Bank has reviewed and approved the CERIP.
2. 
The Closing Date is June 2, 2025.
-15-
SCHEDULE 3
Disbursement-Liked Amortization Repayment Schedule - Annuity Repayment
Subject to the provisions of Section 3.03 of the General Conditions, the Borrower
shall repay each Disbursed Amount in semiannual installments payable on each
June 15 and December 15, the first installment to be payable on the fifteenth (15th)
Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount and
the last installment to be payable on the forty-fourth (44th) Payment Date
folowing the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount. The following table
sets forth the percentage of the Disbursed Amount payable on each Principal
Payment Date:
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
001 
2.28000
002 
2.34000
003 
2.40000
004 
246000
005 
2.52000
006 
2.5soo
007 
2.64000
008 
2.71000
009 
2.78000
010 
2.85000
oil 
2.92000
012 
2.99000
013 
3.07000
014 
3.14000
015 
322000
016 
3.30000
017 
339000
018 
3.47000
019 
3.56000
020 
3.65000
021 
3.74000
022 
3.83000
023 
3.93000
024 
4.02000
025 
4t2000
026 
4.23000
027 
4.33000
028 
4.44000
029 
4.55000
030 
4.54000
2. 
If any one or more installments of principal of the Disbursed Amount would,
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph I of this Schedule, be payable after June
15, 2047, the Borrower shall also pay on such date the aggregate amount of all
such installments.
-16-
3. 
The Bank shall notify the Loan Parties of the amortization schedule for each
Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed
Amount.
- 17 
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Affected Person" means a person who, on account of the execution of the Project,
experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by:
(a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii)
loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of
livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; or (b) the
involuntary restriction to access to legally designated parks and protected areas,
resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person; and "Affected
Persons" means, collectively, all such Affected Persons.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
3. 
"Beneficiary FPO" means an FPO which has entered into an agreement to receive
Grants under the Project in accordance with Section LC of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section m. I of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
5. 
"CCWM" or "Community Collaborative Water Management" means the system
of water management to be established at the village level under Part A of the
Project in accordance with the procedures set forth in the PIP.
6. 
"CER Component" means Part D of the Project, as described in Schedule I to this
Agreement.
7. 
"CERC Annex" means an Annex to the PIP referred to in Section LE of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement, acceptable to the Bank to be adopted by the
Borrower and/or the Project Implementing Entity for the implementation of the
CER Component, in accordance with the provision of said Section.
8. 
"Contingent Emergency Response Implementation Plan" or the acronym "CERIP"
means the action plan referred to in Section I.E.2 of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement, acceptable to the Bank to be prepared by the Borrower and/or the
Project Implementing Entity for the implementation of the CER Component, in
accordance with the provision of said Section.
9. 
"Coordinating Authority" means the entity or entities designated by the Project
Implementing Entity in the CERC Annex, and approved by the Bank, pursuant to
- 18-
Section I.E. 1(a) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, to be responsible for
coordinating their respective CER Component.
10. 
"Department of Animal Husbandry" means the State of Tamil Nadu's Department
of Animal Husbandry or any successor thereto.
I1. 
"Eligible Crisis or Emergency" means an event that has caused, or is likely to
imminently cause, a major adverse economic and/or social impact to the Borrower
and/or the Project Implementing Entity, associated with a natural or man-made
crisis or disaster.
12. 
"Emergency Expenditures" means any of the eligible expenditures set forth in the
CERC Annex, in accordance with the provision of Section I.E of the Schedule to
the Project Agreement, and required for the activities described in such Annex to
be financed under the said CER Component.
13. 
"EMP" or "Environmental Management Plan" means each environmental
management plan to be prepared under the Project in accordance with the ESMF,
each such plan in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, and defining details
of measures to manage potential environmental risks and mitigate, reduce and/or
offset adverse environmental impacts associated with the implementation of Project
activities, together with adequate budget, institutional, monitoring and reporting
arrangements capable of ensuring proper implementation of and regular feedback
on compliance with, its terms; as each EMP may be amended from time to time with
the prior concurrence of the Bank
14. 
"Enterprise Information Management System" means the system for managing
irrigation water resources of Tamil Nadu in holistic manner by setting irrigation
targets, monitoring their progress, storing historical data and deriving irrigation
trend and agriculture patterns, designed, developed and tested for WRD with the
technical assistance of an information technology consulting firm under the Tamil
Nadu Irrigated Agriculture Modernization and Water-Bodies Restoration and
Management Project (Credit No. 4255-IN and Loan No. 4846-IN).
15. 
"ESMF" means the Project Implementing Entity's environmental and social
management framework dated January 1, 2017 and disclosed on March 21, 2017,
setting forth the: (1) policy framework, principles, standards, processes and
institutional arrangements to be applied to assess potential adverse environmental
impacts associated with Project activities and the ways to avoid, minimize,
mitigate or offset them, including public consultation, disclosure and reporting; as
such framework may be amended from time to time with the prior concurrence of
the Bank and (2) social impact assessments and mitigation procedures and
arrangements and grievance redress procedures for assessing and addressing any
Project social impacts; as such framework may be amended from time to time with
the prior concurrence of the Bank.
- 19 
16. 
"FPO" or "Farmer Producer Organization" means a producer group organized in a
cluster in accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth in the PIP, and
registered as a cooperative or company under the applicable laws of the Borrower
and/or the State of Tamil Nadu.
17. 
"FPO Manual" means the manual to be prepared by the Project Implementing
Entity in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank for purposes of carrying
out the Grants, which manual shall comprise, inter alia, the criteria and process for
selection of Beneficiary FPOs; implementation and monitoring arrangements;
eligible expenditures; and other rules and procedures for carrying out the Grants;
as may be amended from time to time with prior concurrence of the Bank.
18. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project
Financing", dated July 14, 2017.
19. 
"GIS" means Geographic Information System.
20. 
"Grant" means grant financing awarded, or caused to be awarded, by the Project
Implementing Entity to a Beneficiary FPO, out of the proceeds of the Loan,
pursuant to Section LB of the Schedule to the Project Agreement and the selection
criteria and procedures set forth in the PIP.
21. 
"ICr means Information Communications Technology.
22. 
"IWS" means the State of Tamil Nadu's Institute for Water Studies or any
successor thereto.
23. 
"MDPU" or "Multi-Disciplinary Project Unit" means the coordination unit
established and referred to in Section I.A.2 of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.
24. 
"Operating Costs" means the reasonable costs of incremental expenditures
incurred by the Project Implementing Entity on account of Project implementation,
including, inter alia, costs of operation, rent and maintenance of offices, vehicles,
communication costs, incremental staff salaries (including regular staff on
deputation to the MDPU and PCUs), training, and travel allowances of Project staff
related to Project implementation, coordination, and monitoring.
25. 
"Participating Implementing Agencies" means the following agencies of the State
of Tamil Nadu responsible for implementation and execution of selected activities
under the Project: WRD; Department of Agriculture; Department of Agriculture
Engineering; Department of Horticulture; Department of Animal Husbandry;
Department of Fisheries; Department of Agriculture Marketing and Agribusiness;
Tamil Nadu Agricultural University; Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Sciences
-20 
University; and Tamil Nadu Fisheries University; or their respective successors
thereto.
26. 
"PCUs" or "Project Coordination Units" means the implementing units,
established one per each of the ten Participating Implementing Agencies.
27. 
PEC or "Project Empowered Committee" means the coordination unit established
and referred to in Section IA. I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
28. 
"PIP" means the Project Implementation Plan, dated October 24, 2017, satisfactory
to the Bank, setting forth, inter alia, the operating procedures for the carrying out
of the Project and the FPO Manual; as such plan, may be amended from time to
time with the prior concurrence of the Bank.
29. 
'TMP" or "Pest Management Plan" means the State of Tamil Nadu's plan dated
March 21, 2017 and disclosed on even date, prepared under the Project in form
and substance satisfactory to the Bank, and containing the processes and actions to
improve the procurement, handling, storage, use and disposal of pesticides and to
promote integrated pest and nutrient management with the objective of reducing
the use of pesticides and other agro-chemicals in agriculture, as amended from time
to time with the prior concurrence of the Bank.
30. 
"Procurement Plan" means the State of Tamil Nadu's procurement plan for the
Project, dated October 24, 2017, and provided for under Section IV of the
Procurement Regulations, as the same may be updated from time to time in
agreement with the Bank.
31. 
"Procurement Regulations" means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for
Borrowers under Investment Project Financing", dated July 1, 2016.
32. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means the Borrower's State of Tamil Nadu.
33. 
"RAP" or "Resettlement Action Plan" mean each resettlement action plan to be
prepared under the Project in accordance with the RPF, each such plan in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank, and containing, a program of actions, measures
and policies for compensation and resettlement of Affected Persons, including the
magnitude of displacement, compensation and resettlement arrangements, budget
and cost estimates, and sources of funding, together with adequate institutional,
monitoring and reporting arrangements capable of ensuring proper implementation
of, and regular feedback on compliance with its terms; as each RAP may be amended
from time to time with the prior concurrence of the Bank.
34. 
"RPF" or "Resettlement Policy Framework" means the framework included in the
ESMF, setting forth the guiding principles, acceptable standards and procedures
-21-
for. (a) the identification of any Affected Persons on account of Project
implementation; and (b) the preparation of their prescribed RAPs.
35. 
"Safeguard Documents" means, collectively, the ESMF (which includes the RPF);
the PMP; the EMP(s); and the RAPs, as well as any other plans and documents
prepared or to be prepared, pursuant to Section L D of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.
36. 
"SG&SWDC" means Tamil Nadu's State Ground & Surface Water Resources
Data Center or any successor thereto.
37. 
"Signature Date" means the latest of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the
date of the Loan Agreement" in the General Conditions.
38. 
"SWaRMA" 
means The State of Tamil Nadu's State Water Resources
Management Agency or any successor thereto.
39. 
"SWIKC" or "Single Window Information and Knowledge Center" means the
center established in selected model villages under the Project with the objective
of facilitating convergence among different departments and agencies involved in
service delivery in the water sector, established and operated in accordance with
the provisions set forth in the PIP.
40. 
"Tamil Nadu" means the Borrower's State of Tamil Nadu or any successor thereto.
41. 
"Training and Workshops" means the reasonable cost of trainings, seminars,
workshops, conferences and study tours, conducted in the territory of the
Borrower or overseas and subject to the Bank's prior agreement, organized or
attended by the Project Implementing Entity's staff and/or the staff of any
Participating Implementing Entity in direct relation to the Project; which costs
may include, inter alia: (a) the fees of training institutions and courses; (b)
domestic and international travel costs, lodging costs, and subsistence/per diem
allowances both for trainers and trainees; (c) the rental of training facilities; (d)
preparation, purchase or reproduction of training materials; and (e) information,
education, and communication costs.
42. 
"WRD" means the Water Resource Department of the State of Tamil Nadu.
43. 
"WUAs" or "Water User Associations" means local organizations, set up in
accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth in the PIP, of water users
involved in management and operation of irrigation systems.
