OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8803-EG
Loan Agreement
(Third Fiscal Consolidation, Sustainable Energy, and Competitiveness
Programmatic Development Policy Financing)
between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8803-EG
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between the ARAB REPUBLIC OF
EGYPT ("Borrower") and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing financing in support of the
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to provide
this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (i) the actions which the Borrower has already
taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule I to this
Agreement; and (ii) the Borrower's maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy
framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of one billion one hundred
fifty million Dollars ($1,150,000,000) as such amount may be converted from time
to time through a Currency Conversion ("Loan").
2.02. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower on the principal amount of the loan
withdrawn and the amount outstanding from time to time for each Interest Period
shall be at a rate equal to the Reference Rate (as defined in paragraph 87 of the
General Conditions) for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided,
that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount
shall be deternined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the
General Conditions.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may
apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.
-2-
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
2.07. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.05 of the General Conditions,
the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the
provisions of this Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.
2.08 
The Borrower represents that it has designated its Ministry of Finance for the
purpose of handling on behalf of the Borrower, debt service payments with respect
to the Loan.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To
this end, and further to Section 5.05 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either
party, exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
(b) 
without limitation upon paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall
promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have the effect of
materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action taken
under the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule
1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, a situation
has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part
of it, will be carried out.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to
the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
Subject to the other provisions of this Article and Section 9.01 of the General
Conditions, this Agreement shall become effective once the Bank has received
evidence that all necessary constitutional procedures have been taken by the
Borrower in accordance with the provisions of Section 9.01 of the General
Conditions.
-3-
5.02. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that
the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program, and the
adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework are acceptable to
the Bank.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred eighty (180) days after the date
of this Agreement, or such later date as may be established by the Bank in
accordance with Section 9.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Minister of Investment and International Cooperation of the Borrower is
designated as the Borrower's Representative.
6.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower's address is:
Ministry of Investment and International Cooperation
8 Adly Street,
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt
(b) 
the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile: 
E-mail:
(202) 2391-2815/ 
snasr@miic.gov.eg
(202) 2391-5167
6.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) 
the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EYPT
By:
Au orized Representative
Name: 
N LAX
Title: 
i 
_4 
A) 
-I-Y__
Date:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By:
Authorized Representative
Name: 
ASA_P______
Title: 
CaU\LL 
YY
Date: 
c !'/2 0
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
Pillar I: 
Advancing Fiscal Consolidation
1. 
The Borrower, through its Ministry of Finance, has issued a wage bill report
entitled Note on Key Reforms and Development of Wages dated August 2017,
notifying that at least seventy percent (70%) of the wage bill is automated and that
an action plan for the completion of the automation process has been developed.
2. 
The Borrower, through its Ministry of Finance, has:
(a) 
issued Ministerial Decree No. 290/2017, which establishes an internal
audit dedicated unit with adequate staffing, budget and procedures aligned
with international guidance related to independence, audit planning, risk
assessment and periodic reporting.
(b) 
issued Ministerial Decree No. 201/2017, which establishes a Sovereign
Guarantees Committee entrusted to develop policies for issuing sovereign
guarantees, review the applications for issuing such guarantees, and
evaluate periodically the financial stability of the recipients of the
guarantees.
(c) 
begun publishing a section in the FY 2017/18 Budget Statement on
economic risks to the implementation of the national budget.
Pillar 2: 
Ensuring Sustainable Energy Supply
3. 
The Borrower, through its:
(a) 
Ministry of Electricity and Renewable Energy, has issued Ministerial
Decree No. 312/2017 on annual electricity price adjustment; and Prime
Minister, has issued Prime Ministerial Decrees No 1435/2017, 1436/2017
and 1437/2017 for the fuel price adjustment for FY2017/18 consistent with
the FY2017/18 Budget Statement;
(b) 
Cabinet, has issued Cabinet Letter 14724-5 dated July 5, 2017 approving
the extension to achieve full cost recovery in the power sector by
FY2021/22; and
-6-
(c) 
Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Petroleum and Mineral Resources,
has approved a joint policy proposal for periodic fuel price indexation
which has been submitted to the Prime Minister for consideration.
4. 
The Borrower, through:
(a) 
its Prime Minister, has issued Prime Ministerial Decree No. 1959/2017,
which establishes the new General Assembly of the Egyptian Electricity
Transmission Company, in compliance with the Electricity Law and the
Executive Regulations of the Electricity Law; and
(b) 
the Egyptian Electric Utility and Consumer Protection Regulatory
Agency, has issued regulations on the methodology for public hearings on
important regulatory decisions entitled Public Hearing Regulation of the
Egyptian Electric Utility and Consumer Protection Regulatory Agency,
July 2017.
5. 
The Borrower, through its President, has assented to the Gas Market Activities
Regulatory Law, 196/2017, which opens the downstream gas sector to private
investors, introduces third-party access to the network, and establishes the
independent gas sector regulator as evidenced in its official Gazette dated, August
1, 2017.
6. 
The Borrower, through:
(a) 
its Cabinet, has issued Cabinet Letters No. 13181-5 dated June 12, 2017,
and No. 13182-5 dated June 13, 2017, which approve the use of
competitive auctions to procure the next round of private-sector owned
renewable energy capacity; and
(b) 
the Egyptian Electric Utility and Consumer Protection Regulatory
Agency, has issued Circular No. 01/2017 (as amended by Circular No.
04/2017), notifying the public of the revised net metering regulations that
allow consumers to sell excess electricity to a third party, or to the
distribution company at a price equivalent to the cost of service.
Pillar 3: 
Enhancing the Business Environment
7. 
The Borrower, through its:
(a) 
President, assented to Investment Law No. 72/2017; and through its Prime
Minister, issued Prime Ministerial Decree No. 2310/2017 approving the
associated Executive Regulations which enhance certain protections for
investors.
(b) 
Cabinet, has issued Cabinet Letter No. 13325-3 dated June 14, 2017,
-7-
approving the amendment to the Companies Law, which enables the
establishment of single-person companies with limited liability, and has
submitted said amendments to its Parliament.
(c) 
Ministry of Investment and International Cooperation, has implemented
institutional reforms in the Investment Law including improving services
to investors such as: (i) publication of all licensing and permits procedures
and requirements for all activities and sectors; and a complete inventory
of available 
investment incentives 
and eligibility 
criteria; 
and
(ii) introduction of automated and integrated registration services
accessible online including company incorporation and registration
services provided by other agencies, as evidenced by its publication of said
measures on the GAFI's website.
8. 
The Borrower, through the ECA, in its Board Session no. 113 on September 12,
2017, approved the adoption of the following secondary legislation to implement
the Competition Law, namely: (a) Regulation Relating to Exemptions, under
Articles 6 and 9 of the Competition Law; (b) Leniency Guidelines, under Article
26 of the Competition Law; (c) Guidelines on Fines, Settlements and Damages;
and (d) Quick-Guide for Competition Impact Assessment of Laws and Regulation.
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify
by notice to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts
The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the Front-end Fee) is allocated in a
single withdrawal tranche, from which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the
Loan proceeds. The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in
the table below:
Amount of the Loan
Allocated
Allocations 
(expressed in USD)
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 
1,147,125,000
(2) Front-end Fee 
2,875,000
-8-
(3) Amount due under Section 
0
4.05(c) of the General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
1,150,000,000
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank
is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with
the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
D. 
Guarantee
The Borrower acknowledges and confirms that the Loan is guaranteed by a
Guarantee Agreement, pursuant to which the Guarantor will guarantee certain
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement, subject to the terms and
conditions set forth therein. The Borrower understands and agrees that, in the event
of any payment to the Bank by the Guarantor under the Guarantee Agreement as a
result of any non-payment by the Borrower under this Agreement, the Guarantor
may have certain rights of subrogation and the Bank may assign to the Guarantor
any right to receive repayment from the Borrower under this Agreement, all subject
to the terms and conditions of the Guarantee Agreement.
E. 
Deposit of Loan Amounts
1 .
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first request for
withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain a deposit account in
Dollars ("Foreign Currency Deposit Account"), on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank.
2. 
All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the
Foreign Currency Deposit Account. The Borrower shall ensure that upon each
deposit of an amount of the Loan into the Foreign Currency Deposit Account, an
equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower's budget management system,
in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
F. 
Audit
Upon the Bank's request, the Borrower shall:
(a) 
have the Foreign Deposit Account audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing
standards acceptable to the Bank;
-9-
(b) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case, not later than four
(4) months after the date of the Bank's request for such audit, a certified
copy of the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request, and make such report publicly available in
a timely fashion and in a manner acceptable to the Bank; and
(c) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Foreign Deposit
Account and its audit as the Bank shall reasonably request.
G. 
Closing Date
The Closing Date is June 30, 2019.
- 10-
SCHEDULE 2
Level Principal Repayments
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
On each March 15 and September 15 
1.67 %
Beginning March 15, 2023
through March 15, 2052
On September 15, 2052 
1.47 %
- 11 -
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Budget Statement" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance report entitled
"Financial Statement: State Budget for Fiscal Year 201 7-2018".
2. 
"Cabinet" means the Borrower's Council of Ministers.
3. 
"Companies Law" means Law No. 159 of 1981 of the laws of the Borrower under
which the formation, registration or incorporation, governance, and dissolution of
a firm/company is administered and controlled, as the same may be amended from
time to time.
4. 
"Competition Law" means the Borrower's law entitled Protection of Competition
and Prohibition ofMonopolistic Practices Law No. 3 of2005 as the same may be
amended from time to time.
5. 
"Deposit Accounts" means the Foreign Currency Deposit Account.
6. 
"ECA" means Egyptian Competition Authority, an agency established and
operating pursuant to the Borrower's Protection of Competition and Prohibition
ofMonopolistic Practices Law No. 3 of 2005 or its successor.
7. 
"Egyptian Electricity Holding Company" means the Borrower's holding company
for electricity production, transmission and distribution established and operating
pursuant to the Borrower's law entitled Transformation of the Egyptian Electricity
Authority into an Egyptian Joint Stock Co., No. 164 of2000 or its successor.
8. 
"Egyptian Electricity Transmission Company" means the Borrower's electricity
transmission and network operation company established and operating pursuant
to the Borrower's law entitled Transformation ofthe Egyptian Electricity Authority
into an Egyptian Joint Stock Co., No. 164 of 2000 as further amended by the
Electricity Law, No. 87 of 2015 or its successor.
9. 
"Egyptian Electric Utility and Consumer Protection Regulatory Agency" means
the Borrower's electric utility and consumer protection regulatory agency
established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Presidential Decree No. 339
of 2000 as further amended by the Electricity Law No. 87 of2015 or its successor.
10. 
"Electricity Law" means Law No. 87 of 2015 of the laws of the Borrower for
defining the policy and regulatory framework of electricity, as the same may be
amended from time to time.
11. 
"Executive Regulations for Electricity Law" means the Borrower's administrative
guidelines for implementing the Electricity Law.
- 12-
12. 
"Executive Regulations for Investment Law" means the Borrower's administrative
guidelines for implementing the Investment Law.
13. 
"Foreign Currency Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Part E
achieved of Section II of Schedule I to this Agreement.
14. 
"FY" means the Borrower's fiscal year covering the period of twelve (12) months
commencing on July 1 of calendar year and ending on June 30 of the succeeding
calendar year.
15. 
"GAFI" means the "General Authority for Investment and Free Zones" an affiliate
of the Ministry of Investment and International Cooperation and the principal
government body regulating and facilitating investments in the Borrower's
territory.
16. 
"Gas Market Activities Regulatory Law" means the law governing the natural gas
market in the Borrower's territory, Law No. 196/2017 as the same may be amended
from time to time.
17. 
"Gazette" means the Borrower's official publication that records the business and
proceedings of the Borrower's government and publishes legal notices.
18. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Development Policy
Financing", dated July 14, 2017.
19. 
"Guarantee Agreement" means the guarantee agreement executed between the
Bank and the Guarantor in an amount of one hundred fifty million Dollars
($150,000,000), in respect of a portion of the Loan, as such guarantee agreement
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all appendices,
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Guarantee Agreement.
20. 
"Guarantor" means the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
21. 
"Industrial Development Authority" means the Borrower's authority responsible
for implementing the industrial policies.
22. 
"Law on Streamlining the Procedures of Granting Licenses for Industrial
Establishments" means the law governing industrial activities in the Borrower's
territory, Law No. 15, 2017 as the same may be amended from time to time.
23. 
"Leniency Program" means the Borrower's program which offers cartel members
an opportunity to end a criminal offence thus re-establishing competition in the
market for the benefit of the Borrower's consumers, market operators and the
economy as a whole.
- 13 -
24. 
"Medium Term Economic Program FY15/16- FY18/19" means the Borrower's
annual rolling multi-year expenditure plan.
25. 
"Ministry of Finance" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for finance or
its successor.
26. 
"Ministry of Investment and International Cooperation" means the Borrower's
ministry responsible for investments and international cooperation or its successor.
27. 
"Ministry of Petroleum and Mineral Resources" means the Borrower's ministry
responsible for petroleum and mineral resources or its successor.
28. 
"Program" means the program of objectives, policies, and actions set forth or
referred to in the letter dated November 5, 2017, from the Borrower to the Bank
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its execution
and comprising actions taken, including those set forth in Section I of Schedule I
to this Agreement, and actions to be taken consistent with the program's
objectives.
29. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the
date of the Loan Agreement" in the General Conditions.
30. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
31. 
"Sovereign Guarantee Committee" means a committee established by the Ministry
of Finance with the mandate to develop the policies for issuing sovereign
guarantees and oversee the implication of implementing said policies.
