OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8754-IN
Loan Agreement
(Assam Citizen-Centric Service Delivery Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
,2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8754-IN
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
J&UN 
S 
, 2017, between INDIA ("Borrower") and
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT
("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of thirty-nine million two hundred
thousand Dollars ($39,200,000), as such amount may be converted from time to
time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section
2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in
Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, however, that the interest payable shall in no event be less than zero
percent (0%) per annum; and provided furthermore that, upon a Conversion of all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the
Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance
remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty
days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as
provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.09. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure
Limit (as said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of
this Section), the Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of
-3-
one half of one percent (0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess
Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for
each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if any)
shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set
forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during
which the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit,
the product of: (A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the
ratio of all (or, if the Bank so determines, a portion) of the Loan
to the aggregate amount of all (or the equivalent portions) of the
loans made by the Bank to the Borrower and to other borrowers
guaranteed by the Borrower that are also,subject to an exposure
surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined from
time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the
Bank's financial exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded,
would subject the Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined
from time to time by the Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total
financial exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by
the Bank.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall ensure that the State of Assam ("Assam" or "Project
Implementing Entity") carries out the Project in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and the Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: Assam's
Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
-4-
affect materially and adversely the ability of Assam to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: the event specified
in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of sixty
(60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is any of the following officials, acting severally:
Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary, or
Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs of the Borrower's
Ministry of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Department of Economic Affaires
Ministry of Finance
Government of India
North Block
New Delhi 100 001
India
Facsimile:
91-11-23092039
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Facsimile:
1-202-477-6391
-5-
AGREED at 
8 
/ , India, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: X
Title: .16Wr
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Auth '* ed Representative
Name: H/3fIAt. 
P
Title: AC.YJ 
oirf~ 
~~(
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve access in the delivery of selected public
services in Assam
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. Technical Assistance
1.1. 
Strengthening RTPS implementation through: (i) the development of an ICT
platform for automated tracking of individual service requests and appeals under
RTPS; (ii) the development of an RTPS management information; (iii) the creation
of an online portal to offer information on the procedures and processes for
accessing services and to allow citizens to apply for certain services online; (iv)
the development and implementation of a training and capacity building program
to support staff adaptation to electronic processing and develop a citizen-centered
approach to service provision; (v) the implementation of a change management
strategy; and (vi) the creation of a high-level delivery unit to drive RTPS
implementation across Assam.
1.2. 
Supporting the process of re-engineering in targeted services through: (i) the
initiation of electronic approaches to government-to-citizen service delivery with
selected RTPS Services in targeted entities; (ii) the carrying out of a process of
simplification reforms, including a structure for the delegation of responsibilities
and the reduction in the number of supporting documents required to access RTPS
Services; (iii) the improvement of the field verification system for delivery of
selected RTPS Services and streamlining the issuance of digitally signed
certificates; (iv) the establishment of a quality management system; and (v) the
creation of an integrated electronic repository of government-issued certificates.
1.3. 
(i) Establishment of Public Facilitation Centers, including through the hiring of
contracted staff and the provision of equipment, stand-by generators and critical
ICT infrastructure and reliable broadband connectivity; (ii) conducting research on
alternative methods to deliver RTPS Services in remote areas; and (iii) developing
a public private partnership and licensing framework.
1.4. 
Promoting citizen engagement through: (i) the provision of access to information
relating to RTPS Service delivery, including through a state-wide information and
education campaign and the establishment of a call center to provide assistance to
citizens in accessing RTPS Services; and (ii) the development of an effective
beneficiary feedback mechanism in RTPS Service delivery systems.
-7-
Part 2. Result-based Financing
2.1. 
Incentivizing citizens' access to RTPS Services.
2.2. 
Fully operationalizing Public Facilitation Centers established under Part 1.3(i) of
the Project.
2.3. 
Expanding access to RTPS Services in the tribal areas of Assam.
2.4. 
Incentivizing the expansion of the number of notified RTPS Services.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section 1. 
Implementation Arranements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds
of the Loan available to Assam in accordance with the Borrower's standard
arrangements for developmental assistance to the States of India.
2. 
The Borrower shall protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall, and shall cause Assam to:
(a) 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Environmental Management
Plan and the Tribal Development Plan, and pursuant to the objectives,
policies, procedures and other provisions set forth therein, in a manner and
substance satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b) 
refrain from taking any action, or consenting to an action to be taken,
which would prevent or interfere with the implementation of the
Environmental Management Plan and/or the Tribal Development Plan,
including any amendment, suspension, waiver, and/or voidance of any
provision thereof, whether in whole or in part, without the prior written
concurrence of the Bank.
2. 
In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the Environmental
Management Plan or the Tribal Development Plan, on the one hand, and the
provisions of this Agreement, on the other hand, the provisions of this Agreement
shall prevail.
-9-
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reportin2 and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall, and shall cause Assam to, monitor and evaluate the progress
of the Project and shall cause Assam to prepare Project Reports in accordance with
the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of
indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of
one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one (1)
month after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, and shall cause Assam to maintain, a financial
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the
General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall,
and shall cause Assam to, prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five
(45) days after the end of each fiscal quarter, interim unaudited financial reports
for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower,
commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal was made under the
Preparation Advance for the Project. The audited Financial Statements for each
such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than nine (9) months after the
end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods and non-consulting services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I
of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
- 10 -
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts,
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections 11, 111, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services
1 .
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional
provisions agreed from time to time in the Procurement Plan; (b) Shopping; and
(c) Direct Contracting.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; 
(d) 
Selection based on Consultants'
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Procedures set
forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of
Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank. For avoidance of doubts, the Bank shall be entitled to conduct, at any time,
independent procurement reviews of all the contracts financed under the Loan.
-ll-
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"Disbursement Guidelines for Investment Project Financing" dated February
2017, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be Financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, non-consulting 
31,202,000 
80%
services, consultants'
services, Incremental
Operating Costs and Training
under Part I of the Project
(2) Eligible Expenditure 
7,500,000 
80%
Program under Part 2 of the
Project
(3) Refund of Preparation 
400,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Advance 
Section 2.07 (a) of the
General Conditions
(4) Front-end Fee 
98,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
- 12 -
(5) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar premium 
Section 2.08(c) of this
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
39,200,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $7,840,000 may be
made for payments made prior to this date but on or after January 1, 2017,
for Eligible Expenditures; or
(b) 
under Category (2) unless and until the Borrower shall have:
(i) 
complied with the additional instructions referred to in Section
IV.A- 1 of this Schedule, including submission to the Bank of the
applicable financial reports evidencing the incurrence of EEP
expenditures during the respective DLI Period(s) up to the date for
which payment is requested; and
(ii) 
furnished evidence satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with
the DLI Verification Protocol, that the DLI Targets for the
respective DLI Period(s) for which payment is requested have
been achieved.
2. 
Without limitation on the foregoing, for withdrawals under Category (2):
(a) 
the Bank may authorize partial withdrawal for EEP expenditures when the
Borrower shall have furnished evidence in accordance with the DLI
Verification Protocol, that some but not all of the DLI Targets for the
respective DLI Period have been achieved or partially achieved;
(b) 
in the event that the DLI Value allocated to a DLI Target is not fully
disbursed at the end of the respective DLI Period because the Bank is not
satisfied that the DLI Target has been fully achieved, the Bank may, at any
time by written notice to the Borrower, decide, in its sole discretion, to roll
over the undisbursed amount to a subsequent DLI Period in accordance
with the DLI Verification Protocol, and the Bank may authorize the
- 13 -
withdrawal of such amount when the Bank shall be satisfied that such DL1
Target from the earlier DLI Period has been fully achieved;
(c) 
in the event that the EEP expenditures incurred during a particular DLI
Period exceed the DLI Value for such DLI period, the Bank may, in its
sole discretion, by written notice to the Borrower, allow the Borrower to
carry the excess EEP expenditures over to the subsequent DLI Period;
(d) 
with respect to the DLI Period current at the time of any withdrawal, in the
event that the DLI Targets for a subsequent DLI Period are partially or
fully achieved in such current DLI Period, the Bank may, in its sole
discretion, by written notice to the Borrower, authorize the withdrawal for
the amount of EEP expenditures incurred in such current DLI Period of up
to the value of DLI Targets of the subsequent DLI Period achieved during
such current DLI Period, and the DLI Value in the subsequent DLI Period
shall be correspondingly reduced; and
(e) 
any such withdrawal shall not exceed the lesser of: (i) the total DLI Value
allocated to each DLI Target achieved up to the respective DLI Period,
and (ii) the amount of the EEP expenditures incurred but not paid by the
proceeds of the Loan as of the DLI Period for which payment is requested.
3. 
In the event that the Bank has withheld, or was entitled to withhold, any part of the
Loan pursuant to paragraph 2 above, the Bank may at any time, by notice to the
Borrower cancel the amount(s) so withheld or to be withheld, or reallocate them,
whether in full or in part, to any other Category.
4. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2022.
ANNEX to SCHEDULE 2
Disbursement Linked Indicators'
Amount of the 
Indicative DLI Period for LI achievement
DLI 
Loan Allocated 
Year 0 Baseline 
Year I 
Year 2 
Year 3 
Year 4 
Year 5
to DLI 
(2016-17) 
(2017-18) 
(2018-19) 
(2019-20) 
(2020-21) 
(2021-22)
(UM(000)
DLI 1: 
350,000 
Customized 
437,500 
612,500 
796,250 
1,035,125
Number of applications 
RTPS awareness
submitted on-line for 
campaigns
RTPS services 
conducted across
state.
DLI Value (in US$): 
2,500 
500 
500 
500 
500 
500
DLI 2: 
30 fully 
Additional 70 
Additional 120 
Additional 120 
Additional 88 Public
Public Facilitation 
operational 
Public 
Public 
Public 
Facilitation Centers fully
Centers fully 
Public 
Facilitation 
Facilitation 
Facilitation 
operational over Year 4
operational.' 
Facilitation 
Centers fully 
Centers fully 
Centers fully 
(i.e. total 428 centers).
Centers 
operational over 
operational over 
operational over
identified. 
Year 0 (i.e. total 
Year 2 (i.e. total 
Year 3 (i.e. total
100 centers). 
220 centers). 
340 centers).
DLI Value (in US$): 
1,000 
250 
250 
250 
250
DLI 3: 
Coverage of 
Preparation and 
Notification of 
Notification of 10 
Notification of 10 
Notification of 10 new
Access to RTPS 
RTPS Act is not 
adoption of Tribal 
10 new RTPS 
new RTPS 
new RTPS 
RTPS Services by at
Services expanded to 
extended to the 
Action Plans and 
Services by at 
Services by at 
Services by at 
least two Autonomous
Targeted Districts. 
notification of 5 
least two 
least two 
least two
I All DLIs are scalable with partial achievements eligible for reimbursement in the relevant year and the carrying over of what has not been achieved for reimbursement in subsequent
years of the project. Measurement will be based on the arithmetical value of the relevant unit for the DLL
I Fully operational Public Facilitation Centers would entail fully equipped centers with adequately trained staff that functions at least six hours on all working days to receive RTPS
requests, and deliver a targeted set of RTPS services, using electronic means as appropriate.
- 15 -
Amount of the 
Indicative DLI Period for DLI achievement
DLI 
Loan Allocated 
Year 0 Baseline 
YearI 
Year 2 
Year 3 
Year 4 
Year5
to DLI 
(2016-17) 
(2017-18) 
(2018-19) 
(2019-20) 
(2020-21) 
(2021-22)
(USSOO)
Autonomous 
new RTPS 
Autonomous 
Autonomous 
Autonomous 
Councils over Year 4
Councils. 
Services by at 
Councils over 
Councils over 
Councils over 
(i.e. total 90 services)
least two 
Year I (i.e. total 
Year 2 (i.e. total 
Year 3 (i.e. total
Autonomous 
30 
services) 
50 
services) 
70- services)
Councils (i.e.
total 10 services)
DLI Value (in US$): 
2,500 
1,100 
350 
350 
350 
350
DLI 4: 
55 services have 
5 additional 
10 additional 
10 additional 
10 additional 
5 additional RTPS
Number of services 
been notified 
RTPS Services 
RTPS Services 
RTPS Services 
RTPS Services 
Services over Year 4
notified under the 
under the RTPS. 
over Year 0 
over Year I 
over Year 2 
over Year 3 
notified (i.e. total 95
RTPS.' 
notified (i.e. total 
notified (i.e. 
notified (i.e. total 
notified (i.e. total 
services)
60 services) 
total 70 
80 services) 
90 services)
services)
DLI Value (in US$): 
1,500 
187.5 
375 
375 
375 
187.5
Total Loan Allocated 
7,500 
1,787.5 
1,475 
1,475 
1,475 
1,287.5
(in USS):_ 
7,500 
_1,787.5_1,475_1,475_1,475 
_1,287.5
3 Not including RTPS Services notified in Targeted Districts.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: 
(a)
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment
Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary,
to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each February 15 and August 15
Beginning on August 15, 2022
throigh August 15, 2035 
3.57%
On February 15, 2036 
3.61%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as
of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the nunierator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding
on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall
be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
-17-
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating
to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-18-
APPFNDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated
October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"ARDMD" means the Assam Revenue and Disaster Management Department, or any
successor or successors thereto.
3. 
"ARIAS Society" means the Assam Rural Infrastructure and Agricultural Services Society
established by Assam on October 23, 1998 under the Borrower's Societies Registration
Act, for the purposes, inter alia, of improving equity, alleviating poverty, and accelerating
growth of the farm sector, and any successor acceptable to the Bank.
4. 
"Assam's Legislation" means RTPS.
5. 
"Autonomous Councils" or "ACs" means, collectively, the following autonomous
administrative councils of Assam to which the Borrower's central government has granted
varying degrees of autonomy within the state legislature under the Sixth Schedule of the
Borrower's Constitution: (i) the Karbi Anglong autonomous council; (ii) the Dima Hasao
District autonomous council; and (iii) the Bodoland territorial council; and any successor
thereto.
6. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
7. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January
2011 (revised July 2014).
8. 
"DLr' means the disbursement linked-indicators set forth in the Annex to Schedule 2 to
this Agreement; and "DLIs" means two or more DLIs.
9. 
"DLI Period" means each of Borrower's fiscal periods specified in the Annex to Schedule
2 to this Agreement, during which each DLI Target (as defined herein) is set to be achieved;
and "DLI Periods" means two or more DLI Periods.
10. 
"DLI Target" means, for each DLI, the target specified in the Annex to Schedule 2 to this
Agreement set to be achieved under the applicable DLI during the respective DLI Period.
11. 
"DLI Value" means the amount of the Loan allocated in the Annex to Schedule 2 to each
respective DLI Target; or such other amount as the Bank may establish from time to time
by notice to the Borrower.
12. 
"DLI Verification Protocol" means the set and procedures dated April 12, 2017, prepared
for the Project and acceptable to the Bank, to verify the achievement of DLI Targets, which
sets out, inter alia, the description of the evidence required; as the same may be amended
from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
-19-
13. 
"Eligible Expenditure Program" or the acronym "EEP" means the salaries of ARDMD's
staff, under selected major heads of the State of Assam budget related to stamps and
registration and land revenue agreed with the Bank, which are defined expenditures
incurred by Assam under Part 2 of the Project.
14. 
"Environmental Management Plan" means Assam's plan dated January 28, 2016, as
updated and re-disclosed on April 12, 2017, setting out mitigation, enhancement,
monitoring and institutional measures, required to: (i) eliminate adverse environmental
impacts of activities to be implemented under the Project; (ii) offset them, or reduce them
to acceptable levels; (iii) enhance any positive impacts thereof; as such plan may be
revised, updated or supplemented from time to time with the prior written concurrence of
the Bank.
15. 
"Financial Management Manual" means the manual adopted by the ARIAS Society on
May 18, 2016, as updated on April 12, 2017, describing, inter alia, the audit arrangements,
funds flow, internal control and delegation of powers arrangements for the implementation
of Part I of the Project.
16. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
17. 
"Governing Body" means the body maintained by Assam in accordance with Section
I.A. 1(b) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
18. 
"ICT" means information, communications and technology.
19. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the reasonable costs of incremental expenditures
incurred by ARIAS Society on account of implementation of Part I of the Project, which
expenditures would not have been incurred absent the Project, including, inter alia: office
space rental and utilities, office maintenance and repair, office consumables, vehicles
rental, operation and maintenance, communications, printing and/or publication expenses,
staff per diems, field allowances, travel expenses, bank charges, insurance premia, and
salaries and salary supplements (other than those financed under the EEP) of civil servants
deputed to ARIAS Society for purposes of implementing the Project.
20. 
"Operations Manual" means the project implementation plan, satisfactory to the Bank,
which shall contain, inter alia, specific provisions on detailed arrangements for the carrying
out of the Project, including procurement, financial management and audit requirements
and procedures, the detailed arrangements for disbursements and compliance of DLIs, and
the Financial Management Manual; as the same may be amended from time to time with
the prior written agreement of the Bank.
21. 
"Preparation Advance" means the advance referred to in Section 2.07 (a) of the General
Conditions, granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement
signed on behalf of the Association on July 28, 2014, on behalf of the Borrower on August
8, 2014, and on behalf of the State of Assam on September 24, 2014, as amended on
November 20, 2015.
-20-
22. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
23. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated April
12, 2017 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph
1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
24. 
"Project Guidance Council" means the council maintained by Assam in accordance with
Section I.A. 1(a) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
25. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means the State of Assam (also referred to as Assam in this
Agreement); or any successor(s) acceptable to the Bank.
26. 
"Project Management Unit" means the unit established and maintained within ARIAS
Society in accordance with Section I.A-2 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, for
purposes of carrying out the Project.
27. 
"Public Facilitation Centers" means the centers responsible for facilitating access by the
public to RTPS Services.
28. 
"RTPS" means Assam's Right of Public Service Act of 2012, which: (a) sets deadlines for
the delivery of notified public services; (b) creates an appellate structure in the event that
government officials fail to meet those deadlines; and (c) allows the imposition of penalties
for delays in the delivery of public services; as the same may be amended from time to
time so as not to affect materially and adversely the ability of Assam to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
29. 
"RTPS Services" means the public services notified by Assam under Section 4 of the RTPS
to its departments, including public services relating to revenue, secondary education,
transport, health and labor and employment; and "RTPS Service" means one of the RTPS
Services.
30. 
"Targeted Districts" means, collectively, the following six districts under the jurisdiction
of the Autonomous Councils: (i) Karbi Anglong; (ii) Dima Hasao; (iii) Baksa; (iv)
Kokrajhar; (v) Chirang; and (vi) Udalguri; and any successor thereto.
31. 
"Training" means, in respect of Part 1 of the Project: (a) reasonable travel, room board,
and per diem expenditures incurred by the trainers and trainees in connection with their
training, including workshops and study tours; (b) course fees; (c) training facility rentals;
and (d) training material preparation, acquisition, reproduction and distribution expenses.
32. 
"Tribal Action Plans" means the plans acceptable to the Bank and to be adopted by the
Autonomous Councils as one of the DLI Targets under DLI 3 to guide the implementation
of the RTPS in the Targeted Districts.
33. 
"Tribal Development Plan" means Assam's plan acceptable to the Bank, disclosed on
January 29, 2016 detailing the specific actions, measures and policies designed to ensure
-21 -
that, inter alia: (i) the Tribal Peoples are adequately and fully consulted; (ii) the Tribal
Peoples take part in the entire process of preparation, implementation and monitoring of
project; (iii) Project benefits are equally accessible to the Tribal Peoples living in the
Project area because of their culture identities and to minimize further social and economic
imbalances within communities; and (iv) adequate institutional and implementation
arrangements as well as capacity building measures are developed for the implementation
of the Project, including associated disclosure mechanisms and addressing any grievances;
as said plan may be revised from time to time with the prior written approval of the Bank
34. 
"Tribal Peoples" means those social groups in Assam's territory that have a distinct,
vulnerable, social and cultural identity, and that: (i) possess the following characteristics
in varying degrees: (a) self-identification as members of a distinct indigenous cultural
group and recognition of this identity by others; (b) collective attachment to geographically
distinct habitats or ancestral territories in the Project area and to the natural resources in
these habitats and territories; (c) customary cultural, economic, social, or political
institutions that are separate from those of the dominant society and culture; (d) an
indigenous language; and/or (ii) are defined as such by the Constitution of India.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee: Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually
in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition
of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
- 22 -
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01
(a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition
of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and
Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
