OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8774-MD
Loan Agreement
(Modernization of Government Services Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
1,w 
jVeM7 
4 ,2 
, 2011
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated AoVe/ 
& 
.JF , 201/, between REPUBLIC OF
MOLDOVA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
BANK'S GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The Bank's General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Bank's General Conditions or in the
Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of five million Dollars ($5,000,000), as
such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion
in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to
assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement
("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
not later than sixty days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, however, that the interest payable shall in no event be less than
zero percent (0%) per annum; and provided furthermore that, upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest
payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be
determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the Bank's
General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment
-2-
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the Bank's General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the Bank's General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with
the provisions of Article IV of the Bank's General Conditions and of the
Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall cause the eGovermment Center to carry out the Project, in
coordination with the State Chancellery, all in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the Bank's General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
The eGovernment Center has failed to perform any of its obligations under
the Subsidiary Agreement.
(b) 
The eGovernment Center Legislation has been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely in
the opinion of the Bank the ability of the eGovernment Center to perform
any of its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following:
(a) 
The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement
occurs and is continuing for a period of 60 days after notice of the event
has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
(b) 
The event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement
occurs.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower,
through the MOF and the State Chancellery, and the eGovernment Center.
(b) 
The Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, has been adopted by the
eGovernment Center and the State Chancellery.
(c) 
The Borrower has issued amendments to the Regulation on the Council of
e-Transformation Coordinators (Government 
Decision No. 222 of
April 1, 2014 on the Creation of the Council of e-Transformation
Coordinators), all in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the Subsidiary
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower, through the MOF
and the State Chancellery, and the eGovernment Center and is legally binding upon
the Borrower and the eGovernment Center in accordance with its terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement.
-4-
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Constantin Tdnase Street, 7
MD-2005 Chisinau
Republic of Moldova
Facsimile: (37322) 262517
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at 
/ 
'/24 
, 
,as 
of the day
and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
By
u o 'z kepresetative
Name:Ll)cla zr,27An 
,2s
Title: //,tff7/ff
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: /}a 
ka& 
a/s'
Title:____________
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve access, efficiency and the quality of
delivery of selected government administrative services of the Borrower.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Administrative Service Modernization
1.1 
Business Process Reengineering: 
Redesign of at least twenty-one central
administrative services provided by the Borrower's government to citizens and
businesses, through:
(a) 
the carrying out of an inventory of existing services;
(b) 
the carrying out of a comprehensive analysis including legal, technical,
administrative, and procedural steps;
(c) 
the preparation of "to be" process maps, requirements and work plan for
reengineering services for delivery through a digital platform;
(d) 
the creation of service standards for each service simplified under the
Project, including the development of a methodology to design and
measure service standards in a uniform manner;
(e) 
the development of supporting documents to implement the "to be"
process maps; and
(f) 
the development of monitoring, evaluation and reporting systems to
measure the impacts of reengineering.
1.2 
Reform Management and Coordination: 
Development of capacity for reform
management, development of a coordination mechanism, and support for change
management, through:
(a) 
the provision of technical assistance for reform management and a
functioning coordination mechanism;
(b) 
the provision of technical assistance for change management, including,
inter alia, the development and implementation of a change management
strategy and action plan;
-7-
(c) 
the provision of leadership training and support for institutional
communication; and
(d) 
the preparation of social inclusion and citizen engagement checklists, to
ensure compliance by selected government services in regard to social
inclusion and citizen engagement requirements.
1.3 
Access Points Expansion for Central Government Electronic Services: Facilitation
of access to government administrative services at the local level trough the
creation of CUPS windows across the Borrower's territory, and support for
capacity building to promote citizen-centered facilitation services at CUPS,
through:
(a) 
the development of a feasibility study for CUPS;
(b) 
the piloting of CUPS through different delivery systems;
(c) 
the evaluation of the pilots' results;
(d) 
the development of an institutional framework for CUPS;
(e) 
the roll out of CUPS at the national level;
(f) 
the establishment of a unified call center for citizens, businesses and
government entities to access information on services, support requests,
resolve 
problems 
and solicit 
feedback 
to improve 
government
administrative services and make them more accessible for all types of
vulnerable groups; and
(g) 
the refurbishment of existing facilities that will house the CUPS to provide
a consistent look and better conditions for citizens, excluding any building
remodeling or roof replacement as further detailed in the Operational
Manual.
1.4 
Citizen Feedback and Outreach: Mainstreaming of citizen-centric approaches and
socially inclusive citizen engagement in the Project, through:
(a) 
the carrying out of an annual customer survey to measure citizen
satisfaction with the services provided through the CUPS and the unified
call center, as well as electronic services more generally;
(b) 
the development of regular on-line and off-line citizen feedback
mechanisms as routine procedures to evaluate the citizen-centric redesign,
quality, accessibility and responsiveness of government administrative
services;
(c) 
the development of on-line and off-line gender-sensitive and socially
inclusive life scenarios combining relevant services into groups for
citizens' convenience;
(d) 
the carrying out of a comprehensive, socially inclusive, and gender-
sensitive public awareness campaign; and
(e) 
the provision of hands-on training for service-provider staff on specific
topics related to electronic governance platforms and services.
Part 2: Digital Platform and Services
2.1 
Digital Services: Digitization of reengineered government administrative services,
through:
(a) 
the development of methodology for government administrative services
digitization;
(b) 
the digitization of at least fifteen government-to-citizen and government-
to-business services that have undergone reengineering under the Project;
and
(c) 
the carrying out of quality assurance and user acceptance testing of
digitized services.
2.2 
Digital Platforms: 
Support for eGovernment digital infrastructure, through the
upgrading of the existing digital infrastructure, and extension of its functionality.
2.3 
IT Management and Cyber Security: Support for a government-wide standardized
approach to a full cycle of IT management and cyber security, through:
(a) 
the development of government IT management and cloud security
processes and standards, and their implementation across the Borrower's
government;
(b) 
the development and implementation of a cyber security awareness
program for citizens; and
(c) 
capacity building for government agencies.
-9-
Part 3: Services Delivery Model Implementation
3.1 
Institutional Capability Development: 
Alignment of required capabilities,
structures and human resources to the improved and digitized business processes
of government administrative services reengineered under the Project, through:
(a) 
the carrying out of institutional capability reviews, assessing the capacity
development needs in line with the new model of service delivery;
(b) 
the alignment of organizational structures and staffing to the revised
business processes and needs; and
(c) 
the provision of technical assistance for effective management of staffing
adjustments, such as reassignment of staff, training, prequalification,
natural attrition (including retirement), and early retirement.
3.2 
Capacity Development: Development of an effective learning and development
system focusing on the needs of the new model for government administrative
services, through:
(a) 
the strengthening of the learning and development system for government
service delivery;
(b) 
the development of the internal training capacity through internal trainers'
development and creation of training packages in classic and electronic
learning format;
(c) 
the provision of training on citizen-centric service redesign and customer
service (including gender aspects and awareness of the needs of socially
vulnerable groups), and the effective internal use of digital platforms by
civil servants involved in the delivery of services reengineered and
digitized under the Project; and
(d) 
the provision of training for staff employed in CUPS.
3.3 
Performance Enhancement in Service Delivery: Incorporation of institutional
performance objectives and indicators in managers' and employees' performance
assessment systems, through:
(a) 
the development of institutional performance frameworks that cover
objectives and performance indicators at the institutional level, and the
periodic completion of social inclusion and citizen engagement checklists
that can be cascaded to structural units;
(b) 
the development of a performance management system for CUPS staff;
- 10-
(c) 
the development of a mechanism for review and continuous improvement;
and
(d) 
training of managers and staff for effective performance management.
Part 4: Project Mana2ement
4.1 
Project Implementation Unit: Support for the PIU staff responsible for the
fiduciary aspects of the Project, including, inter alia, preparation of budgets,
procurement plans, detailed bidding documents, bid evaluation reports, contract
management, disbursement and financial management.
4.2 
eGovernment Center Management: Provision of technical assistance to support the
implementation of the Borrower's government services modernization reform.
- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the eGovernment Center to maintain, throughout Project
implementation:
(a) 
the PIU, with a structure, responsibilities (including, but not limited to,
responsibility for the fiduciary aspects of the Project), and key staff with
functions, experience, responsibilities, 
qualification, 
and financing
acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the Operational Manual; and
(a) 
other staff possessing skills, qualifications and experience satisfactory to
the Bank, and in adequate numbers for Project implementation, which staff
shall include without limitation (and as further described in the
Operational Manual), a Director/Chief Technical Officer, and other staff
as the Borrower and the Bank may consider necessary and desirable for
the Project.
2. 
The Borrower shall maintain, throughout Project implementation:
(a) 
the eGovemment Center Board, which shall serve as the Project's Steering
Committee, with composition and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank
and set forth in the Operational Manual;
(b) 
an inter-agency coordination council for government administrative
services modernization, which shall serve as the technical coordination
body for the Project, with composition and responsibilities satisfactory to
the Bank and set forth in the Operational Manual; and
(c) 
the National Council on Public Administration Reform, established in
September of 2015, which will oversee implementation of the public
service reform under the Project, with composition and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Bank and set forth in the Operational Manual.
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement
1 .
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds
of the Loan available to the eGovernment Center under a subsidiary agreement
("Subsidiary Agreement") between the Borrower, through the MOF and the State
- 12-
Chancellery, and the eGovernment Center, under terms and conditions approved
by the Bank, which shall include the following:
(a) 
the obligations of the Borrower, through the MOF, to:
(i) 
promptly authorize the eGovernment Center to access, on a grant
basis, the proceeds of the Loan to finance the carrying out of the
Project; and
(ii) 
make available counterpart funding to finance eGovemment
Center core staff and the CTS;
(b) 
the obligations of the Borrower, through its State Chancellery, to:
(i) 
support the implementation of Part 3 of the Project as set forth in
the Operational Manual; and
(ii) 
initiate the process to institutionalize the results of the government
services reform modernization;
(c) 
the obligations of the eGovernment Center to:
(i) 
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, technical, economic,
financial, and environmental practices, and in accordance with the
provisions of the Loan Agreement, the Subsidiary Agreement, the
Anti-Corruption Guidelines, and the Operational Manual;
(ii) 
carry out the financial management, procurement, monitoring, and
evaluation aspects of the Project, including the obligation to:
(A) 
ensure that all goods and services to be financed out of the
Loan are procured in accordance with the provisions of
the Loan Agreement;
(B) 
ensure that 
adequate policies 
and procedures 
are
maintained to enable it to monitor and evaluate, in
accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the
progress of the Project and the achievement of its
objective;
(C) 
(1) maintain a financial management system and prepare
financial statements in accordance with consistently
applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, both
in a manner adequate to reflect the operations, resources
- 13 -
and expenditures related to the Project; (2) have such
financial statements audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, and promptly furnish the
statements so audited to the Bank; and (3) make such
audited financial statements publicly available in a timely
fashion and in a manner acceptable to the Bank; and
(D) 
maintain 
adequate 
staffing 
throughout 
Project
implementation;
(iii) 
promptly inform the Borrower and the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the
Project, or the performance of its obligations under the Subsidiary
Agreement;
(iv) 
To take or permit to be taken all actions to enable the Borrower to
comply with its respective obligations referred to in this
Agreement and/or the Subsidiary Agreement, as the case may be.
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the
Subsidiary Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive,
terminate or fail to enforce the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions. In
case of any inconsistency between any provision of the Subsidiary Agreement and
this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
C. 
Operational Manual
1 .
The Borrower, through the eGovernment Center, in coordination with the State
Chancellery, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of a
manual ("Operational Manual"), which shall include the rules, methods, guidelines,
standard documents, and procedures for the carrying out of the Project, including
but not limited to the following:
(a) 
a detailed description of all Project implementation activities, their
sequencing and the prospective timetable and benchmarks in relation
thereto;
(b) 
the selection criteria for the central administrative services to be
reengineered under Part 1.1 of the Project;
(c) 
the financing plan for the Project, including the cost allocation for each
Part of the Project and the source of funding;
- 14-
(d) 
the Project's administrative, financial, accounting, auditing, procurement,
and disbursement procedures, including all relevant standard documents;
(e) 
the models for proposals and bid evaluation reports and for short lists
preparation, for goods, minor works, non-consulting services and
consultants' services (as the case may be);
(f) 
the environmental checklists and procedures for the minor refurbishment
works under Part 1.3 (g) of the Project;
(g) 
the plan for the monitoring, evaluation and supervision of the Project,
including the monitoring indicators for the Project referred to in Section
II.A.1 of this Schedule;
(h) 
the social management strategy for the Project; and
(i) 
the institutional and administrative mechanisms established to ensure
inter-institutional coordination.
2. 
In the event of conflict between any provision of the Operational Manual and this
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
3. 
Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower
shall not abrogate, amend, suspend, waive or otherwise fail to enforce the
Operational Manual or any provision thereof.
D. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
E. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall, and shall cause the eGovernment Center to:
(a) 
take measures to minimize the effects of the service reengineering and
digitization activities under Parts 1.1 and 2.1 of the Project on government
administrative service employees. Such measures shall include, inter alia,
reassignment to other positions, training and prequalification for other
positions which may be needed in the modernized service delivery system,
relying on natural attrition including retirement, and exploring options for
early retirement of eligible staff;
(b) 
promptly inform the Bank of any proposed redundancies that may be
deemed necessary as a result of Project implementation, prior to taking
any action in connection thereto; and
- 15-
(c) 
manage the risk of individual dismissals in accordance with the applicable
labor law, civil servants law, any existing collective labor agreements and
other applicable national legislation, as well as good international practice
acceptable to the Bank.
2. 
In the event that collective redundancies (i.e., redundancies of such scope so that,
in the Bank's opinion, they have a significant impact in any government
administrative 
service 
unit) become 
necessary 
as 
a result 
of Project
implementation, the Borrower shall prepare, prior to taking any action in
connection thereto, retrenchment plans satisfactory to the Bank, and thereafter
implement such plans in accordance with their respective terms.
3. 
The Borrower shall establish and implement, throughout Project implementation,
an easily accessible grievance redress mechanism, acceptable to the Bank, to
address feedback and grievances related to the Project.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the eGovernment Center to monitor and evaluate the
progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.08 of the Bank's General Conditions and on the basis of
indicators acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the Operational Manual. Each
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five days after the end of the period
covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the Bank's General
Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the eGovernment Center to prepare and furnish to the
Bank as part of the Project Report, interim unaudited financial reports for the
Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the eGovernment Center to have its Financial Statements
audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the Bank's General
Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one
fiscal year of the Borrower, commencing with the fiscal year in which the first
withdrawal was made under the Preparation Advance for the Project. The audited
- 16 -
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later
than six months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1 .
Goods, Works, and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works, and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works, and Non-consulting
Services
1 .
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works, and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works, and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works, and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive
Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set forth in paragraph B.3 of this
Section; (b) Shopping; and (c) Direct Contracting.
3. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs B.1 and B.2 of this Section,
and Section I and paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Procurement Guidelines, the
procurement procedure to be followed for National Competitive Bidding shall be
the Open Bidding Procedure set forth in the Law on Public Procurement No. 131
dated July 3, 2015, as further amended on July 1, 2016, September 23, 2016 and
October 3, 2016 (the "PPL"), provided, however, that such procedure shall be
subject to the following additional provisions:
- 17-
(a) 
Eligibility: Eligibility to participate in a procurement process and to be
awarded a Bank-financed contract shall be as defined under Section I of
the Procurement Guidelines; accordingly, no bidder or potential bidder
shall be declared ineligible for contracts financed by the Bank for reasons
other than those provided in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines.
(b) 
Registration of Contractors and Suppliers: Registration shall not be used
to assess bidders' qualifications. A foreign bidder shall not be required to
register as a condition for submitting its bid, and a foreign bidder
recommended for contract award shall be given a reasonable opportunity
to register, with the reasonable cooperation of the Borrower, prior to
contract signing.
(c) 
Participation of Joint Ventures: Participation of Joint Ventures shall be
allowed and all its members shall be jointly and severally liable for the
entire contract.
(d) 
Bidding Documents: Bidding documents acceptable to the Bank shall be
used, and shall be prepared so as to ensure economy, efficiency,
transparency, and broad consistency with the provisions of Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines.
(e) 
Qualification: Qualification criteria shall be clearly specified in the
bidding documents. 
All criteria so specified, and only such specified
criteria, shall be used to determine whether a bidder is qualified.
Qualification shall be assessed on a "pass or fail" basis, and merit points
shall not be used. 
Such assessment shall be based entirely upon the
bidder's or prospective bidder's capability and resources to effectively
perform the contract, taking into account objective and measurable factors,
including: (i) relevant general and specific experience, and satisfactory
past performance and successful completion of similar contracts over a
given period; (ii) financial position; and where relevant, (iii) capability of
construction and/or manufacturing facilities. Prequalification procedures
and documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used for large, complex
and/or specialized works. The verification of the information upon which
a bidder was prequalified, including current commitments, shall be carried
out at the time of contract award, along with the bidder's capability with
respect to personnel and equipment. In the procurement of goods and
works where pre-qualification is not used, the qualification of the bidder
who is recommended for award of contract shall be assessed by post-
qualification, applying the qualification criteria stated in the bidding
documents.
(f) 
Cost Estimate: The detailed cost estimates shall be confidential and shall
not be disclosed to prospective bidders. The cost estimate will include all
- 18-
taxes including Value Added Tax (VAT). No bids shall be rejected on the
basis of comparison with the cost estimates without the Bank's prior
written concurrence.
(g) 
Bid Submission and Bid Opening: Prospective bidders shall be given at
least thirty (30) days from the date of publication of the invitation to bid
or the date of availability of the bidding documents, whichever is later, to
prepare and submit bids. Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after
the deadline for submission of bids. Bids received after the deadline for
bid submission shall be rejected and returned to bidders unopened. A copy
of the bid opening minutes shall be promptly provided to all bidders who
submitted bids, and to the Bank with respect to contracts subject to the
Bank's prior review.
(h) 
Bid Evaluation: Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the
evaluation criteria specified in the bidding documents. Evaluation criteria
other than price shall be quantified in monetary terms. Merit points shall
not be used, and no minimum point or percentage value shall be assigned
to the significance of price, in bid evaluation. Contracts shall be awarded
to the qualified bidder whose bid has been determined: (i) to be
substantially responsive to the bidding documents; and (ii) to offer the
lowest-evaluated cost. No negotiations shall be permitted. A bidder shall
not be required, as a condition for award, to undertake obligations not
specified in the bidding documents or otherwise to modify the bid as
originally submitted. 
A bidder shall not be eliminated from detailed
evaluation on the basis of minor, non-substantial deviations.
(i) 
Rejection of All Bids and Re-bidding: All bids (or the sole bid if only one
bid is received) shall not be rejected, the procurement process shall not be
cancelled, and new bids shall not be solicited without the Bank's prior
written concurrence.
(j) 
Bid Validity: The bid validity period required by the bidding documents
shall be sufficient to account for any period that may be required for the
approval and registration of the contract as contemplated in the PPL. If
justified by exceptional circumstances, an extension of bid validity may
be requested in writing from all bidders before the original bid validity
expiration date, provided that such extension shall cover only the
minimum period required to complete the evaluation, award a contract,
and/or complete the registration process, but not more than thirty (30)
days; a corresponding extension of any bid guarantee also shall be required
in such cases. A Bidder may refuse the request for extension of bid validity
without forfeiting its bid guarantee. No further extensions shall be
requested without the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
- 19-
(k) 
Guarantees: Guarantees shall be in the format included in the bidding
documents. The bid guarantee shall be valid for twenty-eight days (28)
beyond the original validity period of the bid, or beyond any period of
extension if requested. No advance payments shall be made without a
suitable advance payment guarantee. Performance security shall not
exceed ten percent (10%) of the contract amount.
(1) 
Fraud and Corruption: The bidding documents and contract as deemed
acceptable by the Bank shall include provisions stating the Bank's policy
to sanction firms or individuals, found to have engaged in fraud and
corruption as defined in the Procurement Guidelines.
(in) 
Inspection and Audit Rights: Each bidding document and contract
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall provide that bidders,
suppliers and contractors, and their subcontractors, agents, personnel,
consultants, service providers, or suppliers, shall permit the Bank to
inspect all accounts, records, and other documents relating to the
submission of bids and contract performance, and to have them audited by
auditors appointed by the Bank. Acts intended to materially impede the
exercise of the Bank's inspection and audit rights provided for in the
Procurement Guidelines constitute an obstructive practice as defined in the
Guidelines.
(n) 
Contract Modifications: With respect to contracts subject to the Bank's
prior review, the Borrower shall obtain the Bank's no objection before
agreeing to: (i) a material extension of the stipulated time for performance
of a contract; (ii) any substantial modification of the scope of services or
other significant changes to the terms and conditions of the contract;
(iii) any variation order or amendment (except in cases of extreme
urgency) which, singly or combined with all variation orders or
amendments previously issued, increases the original contract amount by
more than fifteen percent (15%); or (iv) the proposed termination of the
contract. A copy of all contract amendments shall be provided to the Bank.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; (c) 
Least Cost Selection; 
(d) 
Selection based on Consultants'
- 20 -
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Procedures set
forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of
Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the Bank's General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated February
1, 2017, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. The additional instructions
referred to in paragraph A.1 of this Section shall specify the order in which the
different sources of financing for the Project will be disbursed.
-21 -
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Category 
Allocated 
Expenditures
(expressed in USD) 
to be financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, Training,
non-consulting services,
consultants' services, and
Incremental Operating Costs 
2,991,779.15 
100%
for Parts 1, 2, 3 and 4.1 of
the Project (other than those
financed under the Financing
Agreement)
(2) Consultants' services under 
40% for Eligible
Part 4.2 of the Project (other 
Expenditures incurred until
than those financed under 
255,000 
December 31, 2020, then
the Financing Agreement) 
30% until December 31,
2021, then 20% thereafter
(3) Refund of the Preparation 
Amount payable pursuant to
Advance 
1,753,220.85 
Section 2.07 (a) of the Bank's
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
5,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
from the Loan Account (other than to repay the Preparation Advance) until
the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee; or
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2023.
- 22 -
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
A. 
Without prejudice to its obligations under Section 5.03 of the Bank's General
Conditions, the Borrower shall ensure that the necessary allocation of adequate
resources (physical, financial and staffing) are provided in each year of Project
implementation for: (a) the successful deployment, operation and management of
the M-Cloud by CTS or a successor acceptable to the Bank; (b) the implementation
of the documents and registries management information system (SIGEDIA);
(c) the adequate operation of the electronic payments governmental service
(MPay); and (d) other shared eGovernment platforms. Such resources shall
include, but not be limited to funding in the following amounts, unless otherwise
agreed with the Bank:
(i) 
five hundred and sixty-five thousand Dollars ($565,000) per year during
Project implementation for digital services and platforms (excluding the
staff salaries referred to in paragraph (ii) below);
(ii) 
three hundred and twenty thousand Dollars ($320,000) per year during
Project implementation for salaries of eight staff in the eGovernment
Center (including the eGovernment Center Director General), who will
provide support to digital platforms and services maintenance and
operation; and
(iii) 
one hundred and three thousand Dollars ($103,000) per year during each
year of Project implementation for office rent and maintenance.
B. 
Prior to carrying out the procurement of equipment and furniture for the piloting
and roll-out of the CUPS under Part 1.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall cause
the eGovernment Center to develop and approve a concept for the CUPS, based on
a completed feasibility study acceptable to the Bank.
C. 
The Borrower shall ensure that any procurement contracts under Parts 1 and 2 of the
Project for service reengineering and digitization, which are specified in the
Procurement Plan, are co-signed by: (i) the relevant central government
administrative unit providing the service selected for reengineering and digitization
under Parts 1 and 2 of the Project, who will be responsible for contract
implementation and acceptance of deliverables; (ii) the eGovernment Center, who
will be responsible for quality assurance and for processing payments based on the
acceptance of deliverables by the relevant unit; and (iii) the procured contractor.
- 23 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Principal Payment DateIntlmtShr
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each April 1 and October 1
Beginning October 1, 2022 
1.72%
through October 1, 2050
On April 1, 2051 
1.96%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
- 24 -
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
- 25 -
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Bank's General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
4. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
5. 
"CTS" means the Borrower's center for special telecommunications, within the
Borrower's State Chancellery or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
6. 
"CUPS" means unified centers for government administrative services delivery.
7. 
"eGovernment" means the use of information and communications technologies
by government agencies to improve their activities, including administration,
services, and connecting with citizens and society.
8. 
"eGovernment Center" means the Borrower's public institution in charge of
implementing eGovemment transformation related projects, created pursuant to
the eGovernment Center Legislation, or any legal successor thereto acceptable to
the Bank.
9. 
"eGovemment Center Legislation" means the Government Decision No. 392,
dated May 19, 2010 and Government Decision No. 760, dated August 18, 2010,
that establishes the eGovemment Center, as amended and as in effect on the date
of this Agreement.
10. 
"Financing Agreement" means the agreement between the Borrower and the
Association for the Project, of the same date as this Agreement, as such agreement
may be amended from time to time. "Financing Agreement" includes all
appendices, schedules and agreements supplemental to the Financing Agreement.
11. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the incremental expenses incurred by the
Borrower and the eGovernment Center on account of Project implementation,
- 26 -
which may include office supplies, reasonable commercial banking charges and
fees, vehicle operation and maintenance, communication and insurance costs,
operation and maintenance of office equipment, office rent and administration
costs, utilities, travel, and per diem, and remuneration of locally contracted
employees (but excluding the salaries of the Borrower's civil service's officials),
and other related expenditures as may be agreed upon by the Bank, none of which
would have been incurred in the absence of the Project.
12. 
"IT" means information technology.
13. 
"M-Cloud" means the Borrower's "cloud computing" technology platform, being
a multitenant, dynamically provisioned and optimized infrastructure with self-
service developer deployment.
14. 
"MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance, or any successor thereto
acceptable to the Bank;
15. 
"Operational Manual" means the Borrower's Manual, acceptable to the Bank,
referred to in Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
16. 
"Preparation Advance" means the advance referred to in Section 2.07 (a) of the
Bank's General Conditions, granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the
letter agreement signed on behalf of the Bank on April 18, 2017 and on behalf of
the Borrower on May 4, 2017.
17. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
18. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
June 20, 2017 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
19. 
"Project Implementation Unit" or "PIU" means the unit created within the
eGovernment Center for day-to-day Project implementation.
20. 
"State Chancellery" means the Borrower's state institution, established by Law
No. 64, dated May 31, 1990 or any legal successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
21. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the
proceeds of the Loan available to the eGovernment Center.
- 27 -
22. 
"Training" means reasonable expenditures (other than for consultants' services
and non-consulting services) incurred by trainers, trainees and workshop
participants for reasonable travel, room, board, and per diem expenses in
connection with training and workshops under the Project, including registration
fees, facility and equipment rentals.
Section II. 
Modifications to the Bank's General Conditions
The Bank's General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1 .
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. 
The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.0 1(b)."
