OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
CTF LOAN NUMBER TF0A4648
Clean Technology Fund
Loan Agreement
(Shared Infrastructure for Solar Parks Project)
between
INDIA RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY LTD.
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
(acting as an implementing entity of the Clean Technology Fund)
Dated 
JrvMiE&C 
,2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
CTF LOAN NUMBER TF0A4648
CLEAN TECHNOLOGY FUND LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT 
dated 
Ollywlibe 
, 
2017, 
entered 
into 
between, 
INDIA
RENEWABLE 
ENERGY 
DEVELOPMENT 
AGENCY 
LTD. 
("Borrower") 
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("World
Bank"), acting not in its individual capacity but solely in its capacity as an implementing entity
of the Clean Technology Fund ("CTF").
The Borrower and the World Bank hereby agree as follows:
Article I
Standard Conditions; Definitions
1.01. 
The Standard Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in this Agreement (including the Appendix to this
Agreement) or the Standard Conditions, or the IBRD Loan Agreement, in such order
of precedence.
Article II
Loan
2.01. 
The World Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth
or referred to in this Agreement, the amount of twenty three million United States
Dollars (USD 23,000,000) ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in
Schedule I to the IBRD Loan Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV
of Schedule 2 to the IBRD Loan Agreement.
2.03. 
The Loan is funded out of the resources made available to the World Bank as an
implementing entity of the CTF. In accordance with Section 3.02 of the Standard
Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement), the World Bank's payment
obligations in connection with this Agreement are limited to the amount of funds made
available to it from the CTF trust fund, and the Borrower's right to withdraw the Loan
proceeds is subject to the availability of such funds.
2.04. 
The Management Fee payable by the Borrower, pursuant to Section 4.01(b) of the
Standard Conditions, on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance shall be equal to eighteen
one hundredth of one percent (0.18%) per annum.
-2-
2.05. 
The Service Charge payable by the Borrower on the Withdrawn Loan Balance shall
be equal to one-fourth of one percent (1/4 of 1%) per annum.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the repayment
schedule set forth in the Schedule to this Agreement.
2.08. 
The Payment Currency is United States Dollars.
Article III
The Project
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article
11 of the Standard Conditions.
3.02. 
(a) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 2 to the IBRD Loan Agreement, which are
incorporated into this Agreement with the following modification (unless the
context otherwise requires):
(i) 
the terms "Bank," "Loan" (except in Section IV of Schedule 2), "this
Agreement," 
and "General 
Conditions" 
shall be construed,
respectively, as referring to the World Bank (as defined above), the
Loan provided for in Section 2.01 of this Agreement, this CTF Loan
Agreement, and the Standard Conditions referred to in Section 1.01
of this Agreement; and
(ii) 
the references to "Section 5.08" and "Section 5.09" of the "General
Conditions" (except in Section IV of Schedule 2) shall be deemed
references respectively to "Section 2.06" and "Section 2.07" of the
"Standard Conditions" (as defined in the Appendix to this
Agreement).
(b) 
so long as any part of the IBRD Loan provided for under the IBRD Loan
Agreement shall remain outstanding and unless the Borrower has been
notified otherwise by the World Bank:
-3 
-
(i) 
all actions taken, including approval given, by the IBRD pursuant to
any Section of, and/or Schedule to, the IBRD Loan Agreement, shall
be deemed to be taken or given in the name and on behalf of IBRD
and the World Bank; and
(ii) 
all information or documentation furnished by the Borrower to the
IBRD pursuant to the provisions of any Sections of the IBRD Loan
Agreement, and/or any appendices, schedules or supplemental
agreements thereto, shall be deemed to be furnished to both the IBRD
and the World Bank.
(c) 
if the IBRD loan Agreement terminates prior to the termination of this
Agreement, the provision of the IBRD Loan Agreement referred to in this
Agreement shall continue in full force and effect between the Borrower and
the World Bank.
Article IV
Effectiveness; Termination
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that
each of the IBRD Loan Agreement and CTF Grant Agreement has been executed and
delivered and all conditions precedent to their effectiveness and the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals thereunder (other than the effectiveness of this
Agreement), have been fulfilled.
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
Article V
Borrower's Representative; Addresses
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative referred to in Section 10.02 of the Standard
Conditions is either its Chairman and Managing Director or the Director of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard Conditions is:
Chairman and Managing Director
IREDA Corporate Office
31 Floor, August Kranti Bhawan
Bhikaiji Cama Place
New Delhi 110 0066
India
-4-
Facsimile:
+91-11-26717416
5.03. 
The World Bank's Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard Conditions is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Facsimile:
1-202-477-6391
-5-
AGREED attjFGW J)G UM 
, India, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA RENEWABLE ENERGY
DEVELOPMENT AGENCY LTD.
By
Authorized Representative
Name: K ..
?ofo
Title: 
b
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(acting as an implementing entity of the
Clean Technology Fund)
By
Authorized Representative
Name:W%&Ai. 
A. A4bo IAttraJ
Title: kCn'lru, Courrit 
116CfD.
-6-
SCHEDULE
Repayment Schedule
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Loan
repayable
(expressed as a percentage)
On each April 15 and October 15:
Commencing on April 15, 2027 to and including 
1%
October 15, 2036
Commencing on April 15, 2037 to and including 
2%
October 15, 2056
-7-
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"IBRD" means the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, acting
on its own behalf.
2. 
"IBRD Loan" means the loan in the amount of seventy five million United States
Dollars (USD 75,000,000) provided by IBRD to the Borrower, purstiant to the IBRD
Loan Agreement, for the co-financing of the Project.
3. 
"IBRD Loan Agreement" means the agreement, of the same date as this Agreement, 
-
between the Borrower and IBRD for purposes of providing the IBRD Loan for the co-
financing the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time.
4. 
"Standard Conditions" means the Standard Conditions for Loans Made by the World
Bank Out of the Climate Investment Funds, dated February 18, 2014.
