OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8758-GD
Loan Agreement
(OECS Regional Agriculture Competitiveness Project)
between
GRENADA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
,2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
A 
I 
, 2017, between GRENADA ("Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
("Bank').
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and
priority of the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project"), has requested
the Bank to assist in financing the Project; and
(B) 
the Borrower has also requested the International Development
Association ("Association") to provide additional financial assistance towards financing
the Project and, by the financing agreement of the same date herewith between the
Borrower and the Association ("Financing Agreement"), in an amount equivalent to two
million two hundred thousand Dollars (USD 2,200,000) ("Credit");
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to
extend the loan referred to in Section 2.01 of this Agreement to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDMONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement. ,
ARTICLE H -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one million eight hundred thousand
Dollars (USD 1,800,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08
of this Agreement("Loan"), to assist in financing the Project.
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
-2-
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided,
that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the
General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
-3-
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall carry out the Project through its Ministry of Finance and Energy
("MoFE") and its Ministry of Agriculture, Lands, Forestry and Fisheries
("MoALFF") in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
3.03. 
In recognition of the corresponding terms of this Agreement and of the Financing
Agreement:
(a) 
any actions taken, including approvals given, by the Association with
respect to any Project-related matter under the Financing Agreement shall
be deemed to be taken or given in the name and on behalf of both the
Association and the Bank; and
(b) 
any information or documentation furnished by the Recipient to the
Association or to the Bank with respect to any Project-related matter
pursuant to the provisions of the Financing Agreement, including the
International Development Association General Conditions for Credits
and Grants referred to therein, or of this Agreement, shall be deemed to
have been furnished to both the Association and the Bank.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of, namely, that the Financing
Agreement has been executed and delivered and all conditions precedent to its
effectiveness or the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals under it (other than
those relating to the effectiveness of this Agreement) have been fulfilled.
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
-4-
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister for Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance and Energy
Financial Complex
The Carenage, St. Georges
Grenada, W.I.
Facsimile:
1 (473) 440-4115
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREEDat Dt.-jct 
U 
N 
AMbia/ 
)SA 
, as of the day
and year first above written.
GRENADA
By
( ( 
Authorized Representative
Name:k 
E- AQLts Fridam
Title: AVdAk 
scdor
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: -Taihs,--en si ceA
Title: 
aOLVk±r 
bNach Y
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower in enhancing access to
markets and sales for competitively selected farmers and fishers, as well as their allied
aggregators and agro-processors, in Grenada.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. Preparation of Business Plans
Provision of goods, consulting and non-consulting services, Training and
Operating Costs in support of implementing pre-investment activities, including:
(a) 
development and implementation of a communication and information
dissemination strategy to raise awareness of the Project and its activities;
(b) 
organization of networking events, including business roundtables and
local workshops for supporting the formation of strategic alliances
between aggregators and agro-processors ("AAs"), farmers and fishers
("FF"), buyers, and lenders;
(c) 
provision of Training to AAs, FFs and buyers to identify business
opportunities, and translate them into viable business proposals;
(d) 
implementation of a country-wide call for interested parties to present
business proposals;
(e) 
evaluation of business proposals, and selection of those proposals to be
developed into business plans;
(f) 
provision of technical assistance for the preparation of sustainable and
competitive business plans;
(g) 
evaluation and selection of final business plans, and the preparation of
Subproject Agreements for those selected plans; and
(h) 
analysis of the qualifications of input suppliers eligible to participate in the
voucher program under Part 2 of the Project.
Part 2. Implementation of Business Plans
(a) 
Implementation of a matching grant and voucher program, including the
provision of (i) Training for capacity building to AAs and FFs receiving
-7-
matching grants ("Matching Grants") and vouchers ("Vouchers"),
respectively, and (ii) support in supervising the implementation of the
selected business plans.
(b) 
Provision of Matching Grants to eligible AAs, and Vouchers to eligible
FFs, which are allied with the respective AAs, for the purpose of
implementing the business plans selected under Part 1 (g) of the Project,
and co-financing investments under said plans, including:
(i) 
for the selected AAs: (A) equipment, infrastructure and other
related inputs, and (B) technical assistance and specialized
Training related to their respective business plans; and
(ii) 
for the selected FFs: (A) farming equipment, infrastructure and
other related inputs, and (B) fishing equipment, infrastructure and
other related inputs.
(c) 
Provision of (i) technical assistance and Training on procurement to AAs
receiving Matching Grants, and (ii) specialized Training, in relation to the
implementation of the relevant business plans, to FFs receiving Vouchers.
Part 3. General Agricultural Services and Enabling Environment
Strengthening of the Borrower's general agricultural public services through the
provision of goods, works, consulting services, non-consulting services, Training
and Operating Costs to:
(a) 
improve the quality and availability of key inputs required for the adoption
of more productive technology (such as quality seeds, seedlings, and
planting materials) for products supported under Part 2 of the Project;
(b) 
organize, and facilitate participation in, trade fairs and study tours;
(c) 
strengthen agricultural public extension service providers' knowledge and
skills to effectively (i) support the selected AAs and FFs to adopt
technology, implement their business plans under Part 2 of the Project, and
(ii) communicate and disseminate information broadly across the
agricultural sector;
(d) 
carry out technical studies to improve competitiveness, including market
studies and analysis of new potential value chains, enabling environment,
competition reforms, agro-food logistics, and food safety requirements
and quality standards (including legal framework) and related technical
skills; and
-8-
(e) 
carry out improvements to selected public infrastructure that are required
for the promotion of adequate internal distribution of produce, reduction
of post-harvest losses, establishment of modem food safety mechanisms,
as well as cold storage at key exit points for perishable agricultural exports.
Part 4. Project Management, Monitoring, and Evaluation
Provision of goods, consulting services, non-consulting services, Training and
Operating Costs to the PCU and PIU in support of Project coordination,
management 
and implementation, 
monitoring 
and 
evaluation, 
fiduciary
administration (including financial and technical audits), environmental and social
safeguards compliance and citizens' engagement.
-9-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, and
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:
(a) 
through MoFE, operate and maintain throughout Project implementation,
a Project Coordination Unit ("PCU") with composition, resources, terms
of reference and functions acceptable to the Bank, to (i) carry out Project
procurement, financial management, environmental and social safeguards
compliance, and (ii) implement the fiduciary aspects of the Matching
Grant and Voucher program under Part 2 of the Project; and
(b) 
through 
MoALFF, 
operate 
and 
maintain 
throughout 
Project
implementation, a Project Implementation Unit ("PIU") with composition,
resources, terms of reference and functions acceptable to the Bank, to be
responsible for (i) coordinating and implementing all Project activities,
including with relevant agencies and beneficiaries, as specified in the
Project Operations Manual ("POM"), (ii) ensuring that the requirements,
criteria, policies, procedures and organizational arrangements set forth in
the POM are applied in carrying out the Project, (iii) preparing all Project
implementation documents, including Project reports, and (iv) monitoring
and evaluating the Project.
2. 
In furtherance of paragraph 1 (a) of this Section, not later than forty-five (45) days
after the Effective Date, the Borrower, through MoALFF, shall hire staff with
qualifications satisfactory to the Bank to carry out the Project manager functions
of the PIU.
3. 
Not later than thirty (30) days after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall appoint
or ensure the appointment of representatives to, and periodically convene and
ensure the appropriate functioning of, a Project Steering Committee, consisting of
representatives from relevant Borrower ministries and agencies, and private sector
entities within the Borrower's territory, for the purpose of providing overall
guidance and support for Project implementation, inter-institutional coordination,
approve annual Project operating plans and requests for budgetary allocation, and
advice on Project restructurings and adjustments, as such measures may be needed.
4. 
For the purposes of carrying out Part 1 (e) and (g) of the Project, the Borrower
shall, not later than ninety (90) days after the Effective Date, establish, and
-10-
maintain throughout the duration of the Project, an evaluation committee, with
composition, resources, terms of reference and functions acceptable to the Bank,
to be responsible for conducting the technical and financial evaluations of business
proposals under Part 1 (e) of the Project, and business plans under Part 1 (g) of the
Project, and for making recommendations for final selection of such, all in
accordance with the criteria set forth in the POM.
5. 
Not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall finalize
the procurement of the main technical service provider to provide training and
technical assistance under Parts I (c) and (f), 2 (c), and 3 (c) of the Project.
6. 
For the purposes of carrying out Part 2 (b) for the Project, the Borrower shall
extend the Matching Grants and Vouchers to AAs and FFs, respectively, only after
executing Subproject Agreements with each recipient AA and FF, on terms and
conditions approved by the Bank, and such terms and conditions shall include:
(a) 
requiring each AA receiving a Matching Grant to deposit into a designated
commercial bank account (opened by the respective AA for its exclusive
use while implementing the Subproject) its counterpart funds for the
carrying out of the related Subproject, as a precondition for receiving the
Matching Grant;
(b) 
requiring each FF receiving Vouchers to use said Vouchers to acquire
approved goods, as specified in the respective Subproject Agreements,
from suppliers selected in accordance with the criteria set forth in the POM
and to the satisfaction of the Association, and to use such goods
exclusively for the implementation of the related Subproject;
(c) 
requiring each recipient AA and FF to:
(i) 
carry out its Subproject activities with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with the POM (including sound
technical, economic, financial, managerial, environmental and
social standards and practices satisfactory to the Bank) and with
the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to
recipients of loan proceeds other than the Borrower;
(ii) 
provide, promptly as needed, the resources required for the
purpose of the Subproject;
(iii) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor
and evaluate in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank,
the progress of the Subproject and the achievement of its
objectives;
-11-
(iv) 
(A) maintain a financial management system and prepare financial
statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting
standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the
Subproject, and (B) at the Bank's or the Borrower's request, have
such financial statements audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, and promptly furnish
the statements as so audited to the Borrower and the Bank;
(v) 
enable the Borrower and the Bank to inspect the Subproject, its
operation and any relevant records and documents; and
(vi) 
prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such
information as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably request
relating to the foregoing; and
(d) 
obtaining rights adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Bank; upon the relevant recipient's failure to perform any of its obligations
under the Subproject Agreement, such rights shall include:
(i) 
the right to suspend or terminate a recipient AA's right to use a
Matching Grant and a recipient FF's right to use Vouchers, and
(ii) 
the right to obtain a refund (A) from a recipient AA of all or any
part of the Matching Grant withdrawn, and (B) from a recipient
FF of all or any part of the Vouchers used.
7. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each
Subproject Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate,
waive, or fail to enforce any Subproject Agreement or any of its provisions.
B. 
Project Operations Manual
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the POM, satisfactory
in form and substance to the Bank, which consists of different schedules setting
forth rules, methods, guidelines, specific development plans, standard documents
and procedures for the carrying out of the Project, including the following:
(a) 
the detailed description of all Project activities supported under this
Agreement, their sequencing and the prospective timetable and
benchmarks in relation thereto; and
-12-
(b) 
the Project administrative, financial, accounting, auditing, procurement
and disbursement procedures, including all relevant standard documents.
2. 
(a) 
For carrying out Part 2 (b) of the Project, the Borrower shall include in the
POM a Matching Grants and Vouchers component, which shall set forth
the procedures for selecting, appraising, and approving business proposals
and business plans, and for supervising implementation of Subprojects
financed under the matching grants and voucher program.
(b) 
The Matching Grants and Vouchers component of the POM shall include,
inter alia: (i) the eligibility criteria for AAs and FFs to receive,
respectively, Matching Grants and Vouchers; (ii) the application,
evaluation, selection, award and management procedures for the
Subprojects; (iii) the criteria for Matching Grant disbursements,
monitoring, evaluation and reporting; and (iv) mandatory provisions that
provide the following: (A) beneficiaries of the Matching Grants shall not
award contracts to their subsidiary or affiliated companies unless there is
an established arms-length arrangement, and (B) the Matching Grants
shall be provided and implemented in accordance with the Environmental
and Social Management Framework and Resettlement Policy Framework,
and any applicable Environmental Management Plan and Resettlement
Action Plan thereunder.
C. 
Annual Work Plan and Budget
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than January 15 of each year
during the implementation of the Project, a proposed Annual Work Plan
and Budget containing: (i) all activities to be carried out under the Project
during the following year; (ii) a proposed financing plan for expenditures
required for such activities, setting forth the proposed amounts and sources
of financing; and (iii) any Training activities that may be required under
the Project including (A) the type of Training, (B) the purpose of the
Training, and (C) the cost of the Training;
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the
Borrower on each such proposed Annual Work Plan and Budget, and shall
thereafter ensure that the Project is implemented with due diligence during
said following year, in accordance with such Annual Work Plan and
Budget as shall have been approved by the Bank; and
(c) 
not make or allow to be made any change to the approved Annual Work
Plan and Budget without the Bank's prior written approval.
-13-
D. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
E. 
Safeguards
1 .
The Borrower shall ensure that:
(a) 
the Project is carried out in accordance with the respective terms of the
Environmental and Social Management Framework ("ESMF") and the
Resettlement Policy Framework ("RPF"), and the policies, procedures and
arrangements therein set forth are applied and implemented; and
(b) 
the ESMF and the RPF, or any provision thereof, shall not be amended,
suspended, abrogated, terminated or waived or permitted to be amended,
suspended, abrogated, terminated or waived, except with the prior written
approval of the Bank.
2. 
Prior to the commencement of any civil works under the Project, the Borrower
shall:
(a) 
submit to the Bank for its approval, as relevant (i) any required
Resettlement Action Plan ("RAP"), including the relevant social
assessment, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, (ii) any
required Environmental Management Plan ("EMP"), in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank, and (iii) any required Pest Management
Plan ("PMP"), in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank;
(b) 
ensure that the provisions of the said RAP(s), EMP(s) and PMP(s) are
adequately included in the proposed contract(s) for the said works; and
(c) 
ensure that the said RAP(s), EMP(s) and PMP(s), as relevant, are disclosed
and, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, all related, adequate
compensation amounts are paid in full, all in accordance with the related
RAP(s), EMP(s), PMP(s), the RPF and the ESMF, as may be relevant.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting! and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of two calendar quarters, and shall be furnished to
-14-
the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by
such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45)
days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for
the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower.
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
-15-
Section HI. 
Procurement
All goods, works, non-consulting services and consulting services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in the Procurement
Regulations and the provisions of the Procurement Plan.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Investment Project Financing" dated
February 2017, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable
to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures
as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Credit ("Category"), the allocation
of the amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures
to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
-16-
Amount of the Credit 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) 
(expressed in USD) 
financed
Category 
(Credit No. 6063-GD) 
(Loan No. 8758-GD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, 
0 
1,795,500 
100%
non-consulting
services,
consulting
services, Training
and Operating
Costs, except
Matching Grants
and Vouchers
under Part 2 (b) of
the Project
(2) Goods, works, 
1,100,000 
0 
100%
non-consulting 
of the Matching
services, 
Grants
consulting
services, and
Training financed
by the Matching
Grants under Part
2 (b) (i) of the
Project
(3) Goods financed by 
1,100,000 
0 
100%
the Vouchers 
of the Vouchers
under Part 2 (b)
(ii) of the Project
(4) Front-end Fee 
0 
4,500 
Amount payable
pursuant to Section
2.03 of this Loan
Agreement in
accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the
respective General
Conditions
(5) Interest Rate Cap 
0 
Amount due pursuant
or Interest Rate 
to Section 2.08 (c) of
Collar premium 
this Loan Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
2,200,000 
1,800,000
-17-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is May 31, 2023.
-18-
SCHEDULE 3
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each March 15 and September 15
Beginning March 15, 2027 
2.44%
through September 15, 2046
On March 15, 2047 
2.40%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
-19-
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
-20-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
"AAs" means aggregators and agro-processors, which includes (a) producer
organizations such as producer associations, cooperatives or similar formal
organizations that have legal standing to act as aggregators and agro-processors,
and (b) small and medium-sized enterprises such as wholesalers, traders and lead
farmers that have legal standing to act as aggregators, and industrial agro-
processors, all in the territory of the Borrower; "AA" means one such aggregator
or agro-processor.
2. 
"Annual Work Plan and Budget" means the work plan and budget prepared
annually by the Borrower and approved by the Bank in accordance with Section
I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and "Annual Work Plans and Budgets" means
more than one such Annual Work Plan and Budget.
3. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006, and revised in January 2011 and as
of July 1, 2016.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
5. 
"Credit" means the credit amount extended to the Borrower under the Financing
Agreement referred to in the Whereas clause (B) of this Agreement.
6. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the
Borrower's Environmental and Social Management Framework prepared by the
Borrower, and satisfactory to the Bank, disclosed on April 18, 2017, and through
the Bank's external website on April 18, 2017, that identifies the Project's likely
environmental and social impacts, the potential mitigation measures of the
identified risks, assessment of the institutional capacity of the implementing
agency and measures for capacity-filling gaps, and an estimate of the budget
needed for its implementation and related instruments, and guidance for the
preparation of activities-specific environmental and social impact assessments,
Environmental Management Plans, and/or Pest Management Plans.
7. 
"Environmental 
Management Plans" or "EMPs" 
means the site-specific
documents, adopted by the Borrower, and satisfactory to the Bank, pursuant to the
Project's Environmental and Social Management Framework, and to be prepared
and implemented in a manner fully consistent with the Environmental and Social
Management Framework; "EMP" means one such Environmental Management
Plan.
-21-
8. 
"FFs" means small-scale individual, or organized, farmers and fishers in the
territory of the Borrower; "FF" means one such farmer or fisher.
9. 
"Financing Agreement" means the agreement referred to in the Whereas clause
(B) of this Agreement, as such agreement may be amended from time to time.
"Financing Agreement" includes all appendices, schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Financing Agreement.
10. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
11. 
"Matching Grant" means a matching grant made by the Borrower out of the
proceeds of the Loan to an AA under Part 2 (b) of the Project for the purposes of
partially financing goods, works, consulting services, non-consulting services
and/or Training under any given Subproject, and in accordance with the provisions
of Section I.A.6 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
12. 
"Ministry of Agriculture, Land, Forestry and Fisheries" or "MoALFF" means the
Borrower's ministry of the same name for agriculture, or its legal successor or
successors thereto.
13. 
"Ministry of Finance and Energy" or "MoFE" means the Borrower's ministry of
the same name for finance, or its legal successor or successors thereto.
14. 
"Operating Costs" means the incremental expenses incurred on account of Project
management, including office rent, leasehold improvements, office furniture,
equipment and supplies, vehicle operation and maintenance, communication and
insurance costs, office administration costs, utilities, travel and per diem,
excluding the salaries of the Borrower's civil service.
15. 
"Pest Management Plans" or "PMPs" means the site-specific documents, adopted
by the Borrower, and satisfactory to the Bank, pursuant to the Project's
Environmental and Social Management Framework, and to be prepared and
implemented in a manner fully consistent with the Environmental and Social
Management Framework; "PMP" means one such Pest Management Plan.
16. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
April 18, 2017, and provided for under Section IV of the Procurement Regulations,
as the same may be updated from time to time in agreement with the Bank.
17. 
"Procurement Regulations" means the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for
Borrowers under Investment Project Financing", dated July 1, 2016.
-22-
18. 
"Project Coordination Unit" or "PCU" means the unit referred to in Section
I.A. 1(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, or its legal successor or successors
thereto.
19. 
"Project Implementation Unit" or "PIU" means the unit referred to in Section
I.A. 1(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement or its legal successors or successors
thereto.
20. 
"Project Operational Manual" or "POM" means the Borrower's operational
manual for the Project referred to in Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
adopted by the Borrower on April 18, 2017, and as said manual may be amended
from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
21. 
"Project Steering Committee" means the committee referred to in Section I.A.3 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, established pursuant to the Borrower's Cabinet
approval, or said Committee's legal successor or successors thereto.
22. 
"Resettlement Action Plans" or "RAPs" means the site-specific documents,
adopted by the Borrower, and satisfactory to the Bank, to be prepared and
implemented in a manner fully consistent with the Resettlement Policy
Framework; and "Resettlement Action Plan" or "RAP" means one such plan.
23. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the document prepared and
endorsed by the Borrower, and disclosed by the Borrower on April 18, 2017, and
through the Bank's external website on April 18, 2017, that sets forth resettlement
procedures, institutional arrangements, eligibility criteria, entitlements and
compensation, 
including 
valuation procedures, 
public 
consultation 
and
participation, monitoring and evaluation and disclosure criteria to be applied in
preparing and implementing Resettlement Action Plans.
24. 
"Subproject" means any activity and/or investment under a selected business plan
referred to in Part 2 (b) of the Project; "Subprojects" means more than one such
Subproject.
25. 
"Subproject Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in Section I.A.6
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; "Subproject Agreements" means more than one
such Subproject Agreement.
26. 
"Training" means the reasonable costs associated with the training, workshop and
study tour participation of personnel involved in Project activities, as specified in
the Annual Work Plan and Budget, said costs to consist of travel and subsistence
for training, workshop and study tour participants, costs associated with securing
the services of trainers, rental of training and workshop facilities, preparation and
reproduction of training and workshop materials, and other costs directly related
-23-
to training course, workshop or study tour preparation and implementation (but
excluding costs of consulting services).
27. 
"Voucher" means an instrument extended by the Borrower to an FF under Part 2
(b) of the Project for purposes of financing, with the proceeds of the Loan, goods
under any given Subproject, in accordance with the provisions of Section I.A.6 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section H. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1 .
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. 
The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
-24-
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any
prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of
a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable
upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any
Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
