OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8731-AR
Loan Agreement
(Additional Financing for the Plan Belgrano - Water Supply and Sanitation Services
Development Project)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement as of the Signature Date (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement),
between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing additional
financing for the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Borrower
and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred and twenty five million Dollars
(125,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"),
to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower's Representative for purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is its Minister of Finance
or MoF's Undersecretary of International Financial Relations.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, however, that
the interest payable shall in no event be less than zero percent (0%) per annum; and
provided furthermore that, upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount
of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such
amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the
General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan
Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty
days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in
Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year.
-2-
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest
rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the
Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower, through MIPWH, declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.
To this end, the Borrower, through UCPyPFE-UEP, shall carry out the Project with the
assistance of the Participating Provinces pursuant to the provisions of the pertinent
Participation, Transfer and Maintenance Agreement, all in accordance with the Annual
Operating Plans and the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project
is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the
Signature Date.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower's Representative is
its Minister of Finance. 
-
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Hip6lito Yrigoyen 250
C 1086 AAB, Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
MINISTERIO
DE FINANZAS 
121942-AR 
(5411) 4349-8815
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at 
3JLx,Cp A 
A 
VY, d 
, on behalf of the Bank on
Auc4-u 
4L1 f. 
£4 }, and on behalf of the Borrower on Au 
il___ , 2OCA_ 
_
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By
Authorized Representative
Name: Luis Andres Caputo
Title: 
Minister of Finance
INTERNATIO 
L BAN 
R
RECONSTRUC 
N 
D VELOPMENT
By
Auth 
ized RejAsentative
Name: Jorge Familiar
Title: 
Vice President - Latin America and
the Caribbean Region
-5-
SCHEDULE1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to increase access to water supply and sanitation services
and improve the operational and financial performance of the water supply and sanitation services
(WSS) Service Providers in the Project Area.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: Water Supply and Sanitation Infrastructure
1 .
Carrying out of demand-driven Subprojects consisting of the rehabilitation, upgrading
and/or reconstruction of Participating Provinces:
(a) 
wastewater collection, conveyance, treatment and disposal systems (such as
wastewater treatment plants, pumping stations, main collectors and secondary
sewerage networks); and
(b) 
water supply systems including, for instance, production and distribution systems.
Part B: Institutional and Operational Development and Technical Assistance
1 .
Carrying out of tailored institutional and/or operational strengthening programs and
provision of technical assistance for participating WSS Service Providers to improve their
institutional organization, investment planning, management capabilities and technical,
operational, commercial and financial efficiency including, for instance: (a) the
development of WSS-related management and information systems; (b) the development
of WSS customer databases and cadastres; (c) the provision of technical assistance related
to strategic planning, energy efficiency and operational efficiency programs; (d) the
carrying out of analysis of cost-recovery options and optimization of rates and subsidy
structures; (e) design and implementation of macro- and micro-metering (including minor
works) and non-revenue water reduction programs; (f) the provision of technical assistance
for institutional reorganization; and (g) the design of training programs for the operation
and maintenance of systems and installations (focused on wastewater treatment plants,
water treatment plants and pumping stations), and the carrying out of studies related
thereto, all under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
2. 
Carrying out of technical studies required to support the preparation and implementation
of Subprojects, for instance, feasibility studies, analysis of alternatives, engineering
designs, economic and financial analyses, socio-economic surveys, environmental and
social impact assessments and management plans (including screening and risk
assessments, supporting the preparation of safeguard instruments and monitoring) and
other studies related thereto, all under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
-6-
3. 
Carrying out of communication plans, dissemination and knowledge-sharing activities
related to the Project, and training and capacity building for the institutional strengthening
of UCPyPFE and Participating Provinces.
Part C: Project Management and Supervision
1. 
Carrying out of specialized independent technical, environmental and social supervision of
Subprojects' implementation, as required.
2. 
Carrying out of Project audits and monitoring and evaluation activities under the Project.
3. 
Provision of administrative and operational support (including the provision of Operating
Costs) to UCPyPFE and UCPyPFE-UEP in the administration, monitoring, coordination
and supervision of Project implementation.
-7-
SCHEDULE2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation and Other Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
The Borrower, through MIPWH, shall operate and maintain, at all times during Project
implementation, 
a Project implementation unit organized within UCPyPFE (the
UCPyPFE-UEP) with the structure, functions and responsibilities set forth in the
Operational Manual, which shall include, inter alia, the responsibility to carry out the
Project (and assist the UCPyPFE in the coordination, monitoring and supervision of the
Project).
2. 
The Borrower, through MIPWH, shall ensure that UCPyPFE-UEP is, at all times during
Project implementation, assisted by professional staff (including, inter alia, a Project
coordinator, a financial management specialist, a procurement specialist, an environmental
specialist, a social specialist and a monitoring and evaluation specialist) and administrative
staff, all in numbers and with terms of reference, and qualifications and experience,
acceptable to the Bank.
B. 
Manuals
1 .
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower,
through UCPyPFE-UEP, shall: (a) carry out of the Project in accordance with the
provisions of a manual (the Operational Manual) and the pertinent provisions of the
Environmental and Social Management Framework (including the EMPs, the RPF and the
IPPF, as determined by the Bank); and (b) cause the pertinent Participating Provinces (as
the case may be) to comply with the pertinent provisions of the Operational Manual and
the Environmental and Social Management Framework (including the EMPs, the RPF and
the IPPF, as determined by the Bank) in connection with their participation in the carrying
out of Subprojects.
2. 
In case of any conflict among the terms of the Operational Manual, the Environmental and
Social Management Framework, and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement
shall prevail.
C. 
Implementation Agreements
1. 
(a) 
Prior to the carrying out of any given activity under Part B of the Project and any
Subproject, the Borrower, through MIPWH (through UCPyPFE), shall enter into
an agreement (the Participation, Transfer and Maintenance Agreement) with the
corresponding Participating Province (or, if applicable, amend the existing
Participation, Transfer and Maintenance Agreement with said Participating
Province), all under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, which shall
include, inter alia, those set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b) 
The Borrower, through MIPWH (through UCPyPFE), shall exercise its rights and
carry out its obligations under each Participation, Transfer and Maintenance
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to
enforce any Participation, Transfer and Maintenance Agreement or any of its
provisions.
2. 
(a) 
Prior to the carrying out of any given activity under Part B. 1 of the Project, and
any Subproject included in the pertinent approved Management and Results Plan
(which Subproject meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual
to be carried out by a WSS Service Provider), the Borrower, through MIPWH
(through UCPyPFE), shall enter into an agreement (the Technical Operation
Agreement) with the corresponding WSS Service Provider, all under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank, including, inter alia, those set forth in Schedule
5 to this Agreement.
(b) 
The Borrower, through MIPWH (through UCPyPFE), shall exercise its rights and
carry out its obligations under each Technical Operation Agreement in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish
the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Technical
Operation Agreement or any of its provisions.
3. 
Without limitation to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Bank and the Borrower
shall, from time to time, at the request of any of them, exchange views jointly with the
relevant Participating Province so as to enable the Bank to determine continued compliance
by the relevant WSS Service Provider in meeting the corresponding eligibility criteria to
benefit from the pertinent Subproject or to carry out Subprojects (as referred to in
paragraph 2 of this Section), as this criteria is further detailed in the Operational Manual.
D. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower, through UCPyPFE, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance
with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
E. 
Safeguards
1. 
Upon the selection of any given Subproject and prior to the carrying out of the pertinent
works under said Subproject, the Borrower, through UCPyPFE-UEP, shall: (a) carry out
and/or cause to be carried out an environmental/social assessment of the pertinent works,
and based on the results of said assessment as determined by the Bank, approve and/or
cause to be approved an environmental/social management plan or similar environmental
or social safeguards instrument, acceptable to the Bank, for each said works (which plan
or similar environmental/social safeguards instrument shall be based on the results of the
environmental/social assessment mentioned herein, and the Bank's comments on the
results of said assessment, if any), all in accordance with the provisions of the
Environmental and Social Management Framework; and (b) immediately after said
approval, implement and/or cause to be implemented (as the case may be) the
corresponding environmental/social management plan (or similar environmental/social
safeguards instrument) in accordance with its terms, and in a manner acceptable to the
Bank.
2. 
Without limitation to the pertinent provisions of this Agreement in respect of any given
Subproject in which works are involved, and if as a result of the definition of the precise
sitting alignments it is determined by the Bank that Resettlement will be involved, the
Borrower, through UCPyPFE-UEP, shall: (a) prior to the carrying out of any said works,
prepare and/or cause to be prepared and furnish to the Bank, a resettlement plan, acceptable
to the Bank (which plan shall be consistent with the pertinent provisions of the
Resettlement Policy Framework); and (b) thereafter, implement and/or cause to be
implemented, said resettlement plan in accordance with its terms and in a manner
acceptable to the Bank.
3. 
With respect to the carrying out of any Subproject and when so determined by the Bank as
set forth in the IPPF and the Environmental and Social Management Framework, the
Borrower, through UCPyPFE-UEP shall: (a) prior to the carrying out of any said
Subproject, prepare and/or cause to be prepared and furnish to the Bank, an Indigenous
Peoples' Plan, acceptable to the Bank (which plan shall be consistent with the pertinent
provisions of the IPPF); and (b) thereafter, adopt and implement (and/or cause to be
adopted and implemented) said Indigenous Peoples' Plan in accordance with its terms and
in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
F. 
Other Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower, through UCPyPFE-UEP, shall operate and maintain, at all times during
Project implementation, a web page for purposes of disseminating Project information (as
determined by the Bank), all acceptable to the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower, through UCPyPFE-UEP, shall ensure, and/or cause the Participating
Provinces to ensure, that the terms of reference for any consultancy in respect of any Project
activity under Part B of the Project (including the preparation of Management and Results
Plans) shall be satisfactory to the Bank following its review thereof and, to that end, such
terms of reference shall duly incorporate the requirements of the Bank Safeguards Policies
then in force, as applied to the advice conveyed through such technical assistance.
3. 
The Borrower, through UCPyPFE-UEP, shall not later than December 31 of each year of
Project implementation, prepare and furnish to the Bank an Annual Operating Plan,
acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia, the Project activities to be carried
out during the following calendar year.
-10-
Section H. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower, through UCPyPFE-UEP, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of
the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth below in the Operational
Manual. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the period covered
by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower, through UCPyPFE-UEP, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the
General Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower, through UCPyPFE-UEP, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than
forty five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial
reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through UCPyPFE-UEP, shall have its Financial Statements audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit
of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later
than six months after the end of such period.
4. 
The Borrower, through MIPWH, shall, prior to the commencement of each calendar year
during Project implementation, create, and thereafter maintain throughout each said
calendar year of Project implementation, a specific budget line entry in the national annual
budget in order to keep track of the corresponding expenditures incurred during Project
implementation.
Section III. 
Procurement
All goods, works, non-consulting services and consulting services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in the Procurement Regulations and the provisions
of the Procurement Plan.
-11-
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower, through UCPyPFE-UEP may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in
accordance with the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and
such additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including
the "Disbursement Guidelines for Investment Project Financing" dated February 2017, as
revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant
to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph
2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures
in each Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Works under Subprojects 
75,000,000 
100%
(2) Goods, works, consulting 
49,687,500 
100%
services, non-consulting
services, Training and
Operating Costs under Parts
B and C of the Project
(3) Front-end Fee 
312,500 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(4) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar premium 
Section 2.08(c) of this
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
125,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the Signature Date.
2. 
The Closing Date is April 30, 2020.
-12-
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree to amend the Original Loan Agreement as
reflected in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
SCHEDULE3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: 
(a)
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment
Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary,
to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each January 15 and July 15
Beginning July 15, 2024
through January 15, 2049 
1.96%
On July 15, 2049 
2%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as
of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
-14-
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding
on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall
be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating
to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-15-
SCHEDULE4
Terms and Conditions of the Participation, Transfer and Maintenance Agreements
Each Participation, Transfer and Maintenance Agreement shall contain, inter alia, the
following provisions:
The obligation of the Borrower, through MIPWH (through UCPyPFE-UEP), to carry out
each Subproject in accordance with the pertinent provisions of this Agreement.
2. 
The right of the Borrower, through MIPWH (through UCPyPFE-UEP), to take remedial
actions against the pertinent Participating Province (as the case may be) in case the
Participating Province shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations under the
corresponding Participation, Transfer and Maintenance Agreement (which actions shall
have been previously agreed with the Bank).
3. 
The obligation of the Participating Province:
(a) 
to assist the Borrower, through UCPyPFE-UEP, in the carrying out of the pertinent
Subproject in accordance with the pertinent provisions of this Agreement,
including technical, financial, administrative, environmental and fiduciary
standards acceptable to the Bank;
(b) 
if applicable, as determined by the Bank, to comply with the provisions of the
Environmental and Social Management Framework, the Resettlement Policy
Framework and the IPPF, and adopt and undertake the obligation of preparing
and/or carrying out the pertinent EMPs, IPPs, resettlement plans (as referred to in
Section I.E.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement) or similar safeguards acceptable
instruments, as applicable, in accordance with their terms and those of this
Agreement and the Operational Manual;
(c) 
to ensure that the pertinent Subproject is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines (by for example, allowing Bank
inspection and audit rights under paragraph 9 (d) of the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines);
(d) 
to take or permit to be taken all action to enable the Borrower, through UCPyPFE-
UEP, to comply with its obligations referred to in this Agreement, as applicable to
the carrying out of the pertinent Subproject;
(e) 
to inspect the corresponding Subproject in accordance with the pertinent
provisions of this Agreement and the Operational Manual;
(f) 
to prior to the completion of the pertinent Subproject, as determined by the
Borrower and the Bank, to prepare an action plan for the sustainability of the
-16-
respective Subproject, acceptable to the Borrower, through UCPyPFE-UEP, and
the Bank;
(g) 
if applicable, and upon satisfactory completion of the pertinent Subproject, as
determined by the Borrower, through UCPyPFE-UEP, and the Bank, to: (i)
operate and maintain said Subproject with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with adequate technical, social and environmental standards, including
the pertinent provisions of this Agreement, as applicable to said Subproject, the
action plan referred to in (f) herein and the Operational Manual; or (ii) enter into
an agreement with the relevant WSS Service Provider (the Operation and
Maintenance Agreement), or amend the existing Operation and Maintenance
Agreement (as the case may be), all under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank, which shall include, inter alia: (A) the obligation of the WSS Service
Provider to operate and maintain said Subproject with due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with adequate technical, social and environmental standards,
including the pertinent provisions of this Agreement as applicable to said
Subproject (including the obligation to permit the Bank and the Participating
Province to visit the Subproject site to ensure compliance with the provisions set
forth in the pertinent Operation and Maintenance Agreement), the action plan
referred to in (f) herein and the Operational Manual; and (B) the right of the
Participating Province to take remedial actions against the WSS Service Provider
in case said WSS Service Provider shall have failed to comply with any of its
obligations under the corresponding Operation and Maintenance Agreement;
(h) 
to review the pertinent Management and Results Plan, and, if deemed acceptable,
to approve it, and thereafter submit said Management and Results Plan to the
relevant Provincial regulator;
(i) 
not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to enforce the
Participation, Transfer and Maintenance Agreement or the Operation and
Maintenance Agreement or any of their provisions thereof, unless previously
agreed by the Borrower, through UCPyPFE-UEP, and the Bank.
-17-
SCHEDULE5
Technical Operation Agreement
Each Technical Operation Agreement shall contain, inter alia, the following provisions:
The obligation of the Borrower, through MIPWH (through UCPyPFE), to:
(a) 
provide technical assistance to the pertinent WSS Service Provider under Part B.1
of the Project;
(b) 
review, provide comments and approve the pertinent Management and Results
Plan; and
(c) 
if applicable, promptly provide the funds necessary to carry out, or enable the WSS
Service Provider to carry out, the corresponding Subproject.
2. 
The obligation of the pertinent WSS Service Provider to:
(a) 
prepare a Management and Results Plan and submit the same to the Borrower and
the pertinent Participating Province for their approval in accordance with the
procedure detailed in the Operational Manual;
(b) 
as part of the preparation of the Management and Results Plan, carry out a strategic
environmental and social assessment in accordance to the provisions of the ESMF,
and incorporate the results of said assessment in the Management and Results Plan
in a manner acceptable to the Bank;
(c) 
in those cases in which a WSS Service Provider will carry out a Subproject, as
referred to in Section I.C.2 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, carry out said
Subproject in accordance with the pertinent provisions of this Agreement (as
applicable to said Subproject, including Section III of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement) and the Operational Manual;
(d) 
if applicable, operate and maintain, said Subproject in accordance with the terms
and conditions of the pertinent Operation and Maintenance Agreement, with due
diligence and efficiency, and in accordance with adequate technical, social and
environmental standards; and
(e) 
not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to enforce the
Technical Operation Agreement or any provision thereof unless previously agreed
by the Borrower, through UCPyPFE-UEP, and the Bank.
-18-
SCHEDULE 6
Amendments to the Original Loan Agreement
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree to amend the Original Loan Agreement as follows:
1. 
The Project title "(Second Norte Grande Water Infrastructure Project)" in the cover page
is hereby replaced with the title "(Plan Belgrano - Water Supply and Sanitation Services
Development Project)".
2. 
Section 2.02 under Article II is hereby amended to read in its entirety as set forth in Section
2.02 of Article II of this Agreement.
3. 
Any references to the term "MPF" is hereby replaced with the term "MIPWH".
4. 
Section 3.01 under Article 3.01 is hereby amended to read in its entirety as set forth in
Section 3.01 of Article II of this Agreement.
5. 
Section 5.01 under Article V is hereby amended to read in its entirety as set forth in Section
5.01 of Article II of this Agreement.
6. 
Schedule 1 is hereby amended to read in its entirety as set forth in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
7. 
Section I.C of Schedule 2 is hereby amended to read in its entirety as set forth in Section
I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
8. 
Section I.F.2 is hereby amended to read in its entirety as set forth in Section I.F.2 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
9. 
Section I.F.3 is hereby added to Section I.F to read in its entirety as set forth in Section
I.F.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
10. 
Section II.B of Schedule 2 is hereby amended to read in its entirety as set forth in Section
II.B of this Agreement.
11. 
Section III of Schedule 2 is hereby amended to read in its entirety as set forth in Section
III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
12. 
The table set forth in Section IV.2 of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement is hereby amended
to read in its entirety as follows:
-19-
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures to
Allocated 
be financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Works under 
174,601,477 
100%
Subprojects
(2) Goods, works, 
24,898,523 
100%
consultants' services,
Non-consultant,
Services, Training and
Operating Costs under
Parts B and C of the
Project
(3) Front-end Fee 
500,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this Agreement
in accordance with Section 2.07
(b) of the General Conditions
(4) Premia for Interest 
0 
Amount due under Section 2.07
Rate Caps and Interest 
(c) of this Agreement
Rate Collars
TOTAL AMOUNT 
200,000,000
13. 
Schedule 4 is hereby amended to read in its entirety as set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
14. 
Schedule 5 is added to read in its entirety as set forth in Schedules 5 to this Agreement.
15. 
The definitions of "Anti-Corruption Guidelines"; "Environmental and Social Management
Manual"; 
"Indigenous 
Peoples Planning 
Framework"; 
"Participating 
Provinces";
"Participation, Transfer and Maintenance Agreement"; "Procurement Plan"; "Resettlement
Policy Framework"; and "Subprojects" in the corresponding paragraphs of Section I of the
Appendix are hereby amended to read in their entirety as set forth in the corresponding
paragraphs of Section I of the Appendix to this Agreement.
16. 
The definition of "Management and Results Plan" is hereby added to Section I of the
Appendix (in its corresponding alphabetical order) to read in its entirety as set forth in
paragraph 10, of Section I of the Appendix to this Agreement and the subsequent
paragraphs renumbered accordingly.
17. 
The definition of "MPF" in paragraph 12 of Section I of the Appendix is hereby deleted in
its entirety and the definition of "MIPWH" is hereby added (in its corresponding
alphabetical order) to Section I of the Appendix to read in its entirety as set forth in
paragraph 11 of Section I of the Appendix to this Agreement.
-20-
18. 
The definition of "Norte Grande region" in paragraph 15 of Section I of the Appendix is
hereby deleted in its entirety and the definition of "Project Area" is hereby added (in its
corresponding alphabetical order) to Section I of the Appendix to read in its entirety as set
forth in paragraph 22 of Section I of the Appendix to this Agreement.
19. 
The definition of "Operation and Maintenance Agreement" is hereby added to Section I
of the Appendix (in its corresponding alphabetical order) to read in its entirety as set forth
in paragraph 17, of Section I of the Appendix to this Agreement and the subsequent
paragraphs renumbered accordingly.
20. 
The definition of "Procurement Regulations" is hereby added to Section I of the Appendix
(in its corresponding alphabetical order) to read in its entirety as set forth in paragraph 24,
of Section I of the Appendix to this Agreement and the subsequent paragraphs renumbered
accordingly.
21. 
The definition of "Province" is hereby added to Section I of the Appendix (in its
corresponding alphabetical order) to read in its entirety as set forth in paragraph 25, of
Section I of the Appendix to this Agreement and the subsequent paragraphs renumbered
accordingly.
22. 
The definitions of "Consultant Guidelines", "Procurement Guidelines" and "ISO" set forth
in Section I of the Appendix are hereby deleted in their entirety and the subsequent
paragraphs renumbered accordingly.
-21-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
.
"Annual Operating Plan" means any of the Borrower's plan, referred to in Section I.F.3 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with the
agreement of the Bank.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated
October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
3. 
"Bank Safeguards Policies" means the Bank's operational policies and procedures set forth
in the Bank's Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04, 4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.36
and 4.37, as said manual is published under www.WorldBank.or/opmanual.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
5. 
"Environmental Management Plans" or "EMPs" means any of the Borrower's plans or
safeguards instruments, acceptable to the Bank, referred to in Section I.E. 1 of Schedule 2
to this Agreement, setting forth the environmental/social management actions applicable
to activities to be carried out under Subprojects.
6. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the Borrower's
framework, dated January 2017, (included in the Operational Manual), disclosed on the
Borrower's website on February 3, 2017 and in the Bank's website on February 1, 2017,
which sets forth, inter alia: (a) the guidelines for carrying out the environmental/social
assessments referred to in Section I.E.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; (b) the generic
description of the type of environmental/social impacts which may affect Subprojects and
actions to mitigate negative impacts that may occur as a result of their implementation; (c)
the guidelines to be followed in connection with the finding of cultural property; (d) the
guidelines to be followed to prevent natural habitat conversion or degradation; (e) the
guidelines for public consultation; (f) the procedures and technical specifications to be
followed by eligible contractors in the carrying out of Subprojects; (g) the Indigenous
Peoples Planning Framework; and (h) the Resettlement Policy Framework, as said
framework may be updated and/or amended from time to time with the agreement of the
Bank.
7. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
8. 
"Indigenous Peoples Plan" or "IPP" means any of the plans acceptable to the Bank, adopted
by the Borrower, through UCPyPFE-UEP, and/or the pertinent Participating Province
-22-
when applicable as set forth in the Operational Manual, all prepared and to be carried out
following the requirements of the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework.
9. 
"Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework" or "IPPF" means the Borrower's framework,
acceptable to the Bank (included in the ESMF), dated January 2017, disclosed on the
Borrower's website on February 3, 2017, and in the Bank's website on February 1, 2017,
setting forth the indigenous peoples policy framework applicable to all the activities to be
carried out under the Project and the basis and procedures to prepare specific indigenous
peoples' plans or related instruments during Project implementation.
10. 
"Management and Results Plan" means Plan de Gesti6n y Resultados, a key planning
instrument prepared by a WSS Service Provider, setting forth, inter alia, WSS investments
(which include Non-Project Investments and Subprojects) and capacity building activities
envisioned to achieve specific goals to expand the provision of WSS services and improve
their quality and efficiency, as said plan may be amended from time to time.
11. 
"MIPWH" means Ministerio del Interior, Obras Puiblicas y Vivienda, the Borrower's
Ministry of Interior, Public Works and Housing, or any successor thereto acceptable to the
Bank.
12. 
"MoF" means Ministerio de Finanzas, the Borrower's Ministry of Finance, or any
successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
13. 
"Municipality" means any of the political subdivisions of a Participating Province.
14. 
"Non-Project Investment" means any WSS investment included in an approved
Management and Results Plan which is not considered to be part of the Project.
15. 
"Operating Costs" means reasonable recurrent expenditures, based on an annual budget
previously approved by the Bank, that would not have been incurred by the Borrower,
through UCPyPFE-UEP, absent the Project, for Project administration (including office
rent), operation and maintenance of office equipment, non-durable goods and salaries for
non-professional staff assigned to UCPyPFE and UCPyPFE-UEP to carry out
administrative (e.g. secretarial) responsibilities under the Project (but excluding any type
of civil servant salaries).
16. 
"Operational Manual" means the Borrower's manual dated February 20, 2017, acceptable
to the Bank, which sets forth, inter alia: (a) the criteria for selecting any investments under
Subprojects; (b) the eligibility criteria for WSS Service Providers to participate in the
Project; (c) the structures, functions and responsibilities of UCPyPFE-UEP under the
Project; (d) the Environmental and Social Management Framework; (e) the Project's chart
of accounts and internal controls; (f) the format of: (i) the unaudited interim financial
reports referred to in Section II.B.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (ii) the Financial
Statements; (g) the terms of reference for carrying out the Project audits under Section
II.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; (h) the Project performance indicators (including
the results framework); and (i) the Project disbursement and procurement procedures, as
-23-
said manual may be updated and/or amended from time to time with the agreement of the
Bank.
17. 
"Operation and Maintenance Agreement" means any agreement or amendment between a
Participating Province and a WSS Service Provider, referred to in Section 3(g)(ii) of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
18. 
"Original Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement for the Original Project between the
Borrower and the Bank, dated November 23, 2011 (Loan No 8032-AR).
19. 
"Original Project" means the Project described in Schedule I to the Original Loan
Agreement (formerly Second Norte Grande Water Infrastructure Project).
20. 
"Participating Province" means any of the following Provinces: Catamarca, Chaco,
Corrientes, Formosa, Jujuy, Misiones, Tucumdn, Salta, Santiago del Estero and La Rioja
which will participate in the Project, as well as any other Province acceptable to the Bank.
21. 
"Participation, Transfer and Maintenance Agreement" means any of the agreements
referred to in Section I.C.1(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
22. 
"Project Area" means the area located within the territorial jurisdiction of the Participating
Provinces.
23. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
February 21, 2017 and provided for under Section IV of the Procurement Regulations, as
the same may be updated from time to time in agreement with the Bank.
24. 
"Procurement Regulations" means the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for
Borrowers under Investment Project Financing", dated July 1, 2016.
25. 
"Province" means a Borrower political subdivisions, as per title Two of the Borrower's
1994 Constitution.
26. 
"Resettlement" means the impact of an involuntary taking of land under the Project, which
taking causes affected persons to have their: (a) standard of living adversely affected; or
(b) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and grazing
land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or
permanently; or (c) access to productive assets adversely affected, temporarily or
permanently; or (d) business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely
affected, temporarily or permanently.
27. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the Borrower's framework, dated
January 30, 2017, acceptable to the Bank (included in the Environmental and Social
Management Framework), disclosed on the Borrower's website on February 3, 2017, and
in the Bank's website on February 1, 2017, which sets forth, inter alia, the principles and
-24-
objectives governing Resettlement preparation and implementation, and a description of
the applicable legal framework of the Borrower and of each Participating Province and the
process for preparing and approving resettlement plans under Section I.E.2 of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
28. 
"Signature Date" means the latest of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed the Loan Agreement.
29. 
"Subproject" means any of the works under Part A of the Project included under an
approved Management and Results Plan which meets the criteria set forth in the
Operational Manual to be carried out under said Part of the Project and financed by the
Loan.
30. 
"UCPyPFE" or "Unidad de Coordinaci6n de Programas y Proyectos con Financiamiento
Externo" means the MIPWH's Unit for Coordination of Externally Financed Programs and
Projects established within MIPWH pursuant to the Borrower's former Ministry of
Infrastructure and Housing's Resolution No. 165/2000, dated June 21, 2010, as amended
by the Borrower's Executive Decree No. 1,142/2003 and MIPWH's Resolution No. 109-
E/2016, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
31. 
"UCPyPFE-UEP" means the Project executing unit established within the UCPyPFE and
referred to in Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, or any successor thereto
acceptable to the Bank.
32. 
"Technical Operation Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in Section
I.C.2(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
33. 
"Training" means expenditures (other than those for consulting services) incurred by the
Borrower, through UCPyPFE-UEP, as approved by the Bank on the basis of an annual
budget acceptable to the Bank, to finance reasonable transportation costs and per diem of
trainees and trainers (if applicable), training registration fees, training materials, and rental
of training facilities and equipment under the Project.
34. 
"WSS" means water supply and sanitation services.
35. 
"WSS Service Provider" means a public (including a Municipality and/or a group of
Municipalities) or private provider of water supply and sanitation services within the
territorial jurisdiction of a Participating Province, all of which meet the criteria set forth in
the Operational Manual (as defined above) for participating in the Project.
Section H. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
-25-
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually
in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 and a new paragraph 88 with
the following definitions of "Commitment Charge" and "Signature Date", respectively, and
renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
"88. 
Signature Date" means the latest of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed the Loan Agreement."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01
(a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition
of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and
-26-
Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
8. 
Any reference to "the date of the Loan Agreement" shall be modified with the term
"Signature Date".
