OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8782-IN
Loan Agreement
(Odisha Higher Education Program for Exceglence and Equity)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated rJOvEwl A 
, 2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8782-IN
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated r 
V Mht-1. 
2017, between 
INDIA ("Borrower") 
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred and nineteen million Dollars (USD
119,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"),
to assist in financing the program and the project as described in Parts I (the "Program")
and IT (the "Project") of Schedule I to this Agreement (the Program and the Project
hereinafter jointly referred to as the "Operation").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section TV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited
by the Bank into an account specified by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(025%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, however, that
the interest payable shall in no event be less than zero percent (o/) per annum; and
provided firthermore that, upon a Conversion of all or any portion ofthe principal amount
of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such
amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the
General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan
Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty
days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in
Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are February I and August I in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan.
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Ctrrency; (ii) a change of the interest
rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rte to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Spread, and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the
Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion Of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Refereoce Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amosnts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section TV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.09. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure excees the Standard Exposure Limit (as
said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(O) and (b)(iii) of this Section), the
Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of one half of one percent
(0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-
paragraph (bXi) of this Section) for each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The
Exposure Surcharge (if any) shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each
Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set forth below:
(i) 
-Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during which
the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit, the product of:
(A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the ratio ofall (or, if the Bank
so determines, a portion) ofthe Loan to the aggregate amount of all (or the
equivalent portions) of the loans made by the Bank to the Borrower, and
to other borrowers guaranteed by the borrower that are also subject to an
-3-
exposure surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined
from time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the Bank's
financial exposure to the Borrower which. if exceeded, would subject the
Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined from time to time by the
Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total financial
exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
ARTICLE III -
OPERATION
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Operation. To this end, the
Borrower shall cause the Operation to be carried out by the State of Odisha (hereinafter
called "the inplementing Entity") in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the
General Conditions and the Implementing Entity Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Operation is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV- EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is any of the following officials, acting severally: the
Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary, or Under
Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs of the Borrower's Ministry of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Secretary
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
North Block
New Delhi 110 001, India
Facsimile:
+91-1 1-2309 4075
-4-
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street. N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Facsimile:
1-202-477-6391
AGREED at 
( 
tL , 
L 
India, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By
Atharized Representative
N ame: I Am E: E &. 
Y4uvvrA. 4,M
Title: A0bff 
S.CLETM4-ING
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized I*resentative
Name: Hiugm A, Aibo KAmWr
Tidle: Alm t%j6l 
%)r~~j4 bfE 
~P 
1,
-5-
SCHEDULE I
Operation Description
The objective of the Operation is to improve the quality of. and students' equitable access
to, selected institutions, and enhance governance of the higher education system in Odisha.
Part I:. 
The Program consists of the following activities:
Results Area l: Improved quality of and students' equitable access to selected institutions
I. (a) 
Institutional Development Plan (IDP) Grants (Performance-based Financing)
(i) 
Providing support to IDG Colleges through the provision of performance-based
grants for the implementation of their Institutional Development Plan (IDP) to
deliver sustainable quality education matched to the needs of students, through,
inter alia: enhancing equity through remedial classes/consultations; induction
classes for ST and SC students; short-term faculty training; hiring of contractual
teachers; starting new degree, diploma and/or certificate programs; Wi-Fi/smart
campus; language labs; designing and offering of courses under the choice-based
credit system; curriculum development (for autonomous colleges); establishment
of libraries/e-resource centers; community outreach activities; employment-
oriented skills development courses; entrepreneurship programs; college-industry
partnerships; career and counseling centers; academic exchange; enhancing of
capacity for research and development (R&D) activities including laboratories;
minor civil works; and furniture and equipment
(ii) 
Providing support to IDG Universities through the provision of performance-based
grants for the implementation of their Institutional Development Plan (IDP) to
undertake activities for, inter alia: providing support to affiliated colleges in
achieving autonomous status; curriculum delivery innovations; teacher training;
improving of the examination system; establishing of Resource Support Centre for
Affiliated Colleges in tribal-dominated 
districts; 
and 
establishing and
strengthening centers of excellence.
(iii) 
Supporting short-term training programs for administrative staff and faculty of
colleges and universities and provision of training by IDG Universities to non-IDG
Colleges.
Results Area 2: Enhanced governance of the higher education system
2. (a) 
Improvement of goveraace in cofleges
(i) 
Strengthening of GBs in all government-aided and block grant colleges, through,
inter alia: development and issuance by HED of regulations and guidelines on
composition and functioning of GBs. and development of mechanisms to monitor
the implementation of such guidelines.
-6-
(ii) 
Designing and implementing a tool for governance benchmarking in selected
colleges, in order to benchmark institutional performance and enable institutions
to assess their governance practices. monitor their progress, and compare with
other institutions.
(iii) 
Developing a management information system (MIS) to monitor performance
indicators and annual disbursement to all higher educational institutions under the
Program, and to streamline the Student Admission Management System (SAMS)
database with the All India Survey of Higher Education (AISHE).
(iv) 
Developing an online system to publish HfD's guidelines on the licensing/
recognition of new colleges and expansion of existing colleges, and the results of
such licensing/ recognition process.
2. (b) 
Improvement of financial and procurement management and accounting in all
government and government-aided colleges
(i) 
Developing a strategy for the effective implementation of an online financial
management system in all government-aided colleges.
(ii) 
Strengthening of procurement management in colleges through capacity building
and adoption and use of Procurement Manual to be prepared by the Government
of Odisha.
Part II: 
The Project consists of the following activities:
Capacity building and Insiiena svngrkening
Providing technical assistance and institutional strengthenin 
through, iter alia: (a) capacity
building for the PMU on areas of financial management and procurement, with particular focus on
building clusters of capacity in remote districts; (b) development of partnerships with national
capacity building institutions approved by MHRD and/or international higher education institutions
for faculty and leadership development at all the colleges and universities in Odisha, (c) supporting
the governance and management benchmarking exercise through international experts; (d)
conducting of studies to inform and strengthen curriculum and implementation in higher education
institutions; (e) supporting the understanding of learning outcomes, creativity and critical thinking
skills among students; and (f) supporting the independent verification of the DLRs.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Operation Execution
Section 1. 
Implementation ArraBemeut"
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Operation, the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the
Loan available to the Implementing Entity in accordance with the Borrower's standard
arrangements for development assistance to the States of India.
2. 
Notwithstanding paragraph I above, in the event that any provision of this Agreement,
including the instructions that the Bank shall have specified by notice to the Borrower
pursuant to Section VA.1 of this Schedule. were to be found inconsistent with the
Borrower's standard arrangements for development assistance to the States of India, the
provisions of this Agreement and related instructions shall govern.
3. 
The Borrower shall protect the interests of the Bank to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan.
B. 
Anti-Corruption Guidelines for the Program
The Borrower shall ensure that the Program be carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Bank's "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption
in Program-for-Results Financing" dated February 1, 2012 and revised July 10, 2015.
C. 
Anti-Corruption Guidelines for the Project
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project be carried out in accordance with the provisions
of the Bank's "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects
Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and
revised in January 2011, and July 1, 2016.
D. 
Safeguards for the Project
The Borrower shall ensure or cause to be ensured, that any consultants' services including
studies to be supported under the Project, are carried out under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank following its review thereof and, to that end, such terms of
reference shall duly incorporate the requirements of the Bank's Safeguards Policies and be
disclosed and consulted upon in accordance with the Bank's Safeguard Policies.
E. 
Program Action Plan
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the Implementing Entity to:
(a) 
implement the Program Action Plan agreed with the Bank, in a manner and
substance satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b) 
refrain from amending, revising, waiving. voiding, suspending or abrogating. any
provision of the Program Action Plan, whethqr in whole or in part. without the
prior written concurrence of the Bank.
2. 
In the event of any inconsistency between the provision of the Program Action Plan and
those of this Agreement and/or the Implementing Entity Agreement, the provision of the
latter agreement shall govern.
F. 
Fiduciary, Environmental and Social Systems for tb Program
Without limitation on the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the Borrower
shall cause the Program to be carried out in accordance with financial management,
procurement and environmental and social management systems acceptable to the Bank,
including those set out in the ESSA. the PIM, the Operations Manual for IDG Grant for
Colleges, the Operations Manual for IDG Grant for Universities, and the Program Action
Plan ("Program Fiduciary, Environmental and Social Systems") which are designed to
ensure that:
(a) 
the Loan proceeds are used for their intended purposes, with due attention to the
principles of economy, efficiency, effectiveness, transparency, and accountability;
and
(b) 
the actual and potential adverse environmental and social impacts of the Program
are identified, avoided, minimized, or mitigated, as the case may be, all through an
informed decision-making process.
Section II. 
Excluded Activities uader the Operation
The Borrower shall ensure that the Program excludes any activities which:
(a) 
in the opinion of the Bank, are likely to have significant adverse impacts that are
sensitive, diverse, or unprecedented on the environment and/or affected people; or
(b) 
involve the procurement of: (1) works, estimated to cost fifty million United States
Dollars (USD 50,000,000) equivalent or mo 
per contract; (2) goods estimated
to cost thirty million United States Dollars (U$D 30,000,000) equivalent or more
per contract; (3) non-consulting services, estirmated to cost twenty million United
States Dollars (USD 20,000,000) equivalent or more per contract; or (4)
consultants' services, estimated to cost fifteen Mnillion United States Dollars (USD
15,000,000) equivalent or more per contract.
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project excludes any activities which:
(c) 
involve land acquisition and/or involuntary resettlement (as defined in the Bank*s
Operational Policy 4.12).
Section III. 
Operation Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation; Audits
A. 
Progress Reports for the Operation
The Borrower shall, and shall cause the Implementing Entity to, monitor and evaluate the
progress of the Operation and prepare Progress Reports in accordance with the provisions
of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the
Bank. Without limiting Section 5.08 of the General Conditions. the Progress Reports shall
cover the progress achieved by the Borrower in the implementation of the Program Action
Plan. Each Progress Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered
by such report.
B. 
Financial Management and Audits for the Operation
1I 
The Borrower shall maintain, and cause the Implementing Entity to maintain, financial
management systems and prepare, and cause the Implementing Entity, to prepare, financial
statements (-Financial Statements") in accordance with consistently applied accounting
standards acceptable to the Bank, in a manner to adequately reflect resources and
expenditures related to the Operation.
2. 
Without limitation on the generality of Section LD. of this Schedule 2 and Section 5.09 of
the General Conditions, the Borrower shall, and shall cause the Implementing Entity to,
have the Financial Statements for the Program audited in accordance with the provisions
of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Program's Financial
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower or the Implementing
Entity, as the case may be. commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal
was made from the Loan under the Program. Unless otherwise agreed with the Bank, the
Borrower's and the Implementing Entity's audited Financial Statements for each such
period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than twelve (12) months after the end of
such period.
3. 
Without limitation on the generality of Section L.D. of this Schedule 2 and Section 5.09 of
the General Conditions, the Borrower shall, and shall cause the Implementing Entity to,
have the Financial Statements for the Project audited in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Project's Financial Statements
shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower or the Implementing Entity, as the
case may be, commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal was made from
the Loan under the Project, respectively. Unless otherwise agreed with the Bank, the
Borrower's and the Implementing Entity's audited Financial Statements for each such
period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than nine (9) months after the end of such
period.
C. 
Verification Protocols for the Program
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to:
-10-
(a) 
undertake a verification process. in accordance with the terms of reference agreed
with the Bank, to certify the fulfillment of the Disbursement Linked Results set
out in Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and
(b) 
funish to the Bank corresponding verification report(s). in form and substance
agreed with the Bank.
D. 
Interim Financial Report for the Project
Without limitation of the provisions of sub-Sections IILA and III.B of this Schedule 2, the
Borrower shall cause the Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the Bank. not later
than forty-five (45) days after the end of each fiscal year, interim unaudited financial
reports ("IUFRs") for the Project covering the Eligible Expenditures incurred during the
fiscal year, all in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
Section IV. 
Procurement Activities under the Project (Part II of Schedule I to this
Agreement)
All goods, works, non-consulting services and consulting services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set fbrth or referred to in the Procurement Regulations and the provisions
of the Procurement Plan.
Section V. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
.
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Los in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the
Bank may specify from time to time by notice to the Borrower in order to finance:
(a) 
the Program Expenditures on the basis of (he results ("Disbursement Linked
Results" or "DLRs") achieved by the Implernenting Entity, as measured against
specific indicators ("Disbursement Linked Indicators" or "DLIs"), all as set forth
in Category (1) of the table in paragraph 2 (elow) of this sub-Section VA and
Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(b) 
the Project's Eligible Expenditures as set forth in Category (2) of the table in
paragraph 2 (below) of this sub-Section V.A;
(c) 
the Front-end Fee; and/or
(d) 
each Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collor premium. if applicable, upon the
Borrower's exercising the respective options set forth in Section 2.08 of this
Agreement.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories for the withdrawal of the proceeds of the Loan,
and allocated amounts for each such Category, including, as the case may be: (a) the
Program's Disbursement Linked Indicators that may be financed out of the proceeds of the
-11-
Loan under Category (1); and (b) the Project's Eligible Expenditures that may be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan under Category (2) and the financing percentages thereof.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, for purposes of Category (1) of the table below. the actual
amounts authorized for disbursement ("Allocated Amount") and/or the formula for their
determination upon the achievement of an individual DLR for any given DLI financed
under such Category, are set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement:
Percentage of
Amount of the 
Eligible
Ioan Allocated 
Expenditures to
Category 
(expressed in 
be Financed
USD) 
(inclusive of
Taxes)
(1) Disbursements under the Program for:
I. 
DLI # 1:. Improved quality of Selected 
18,000,000
Institutions
2. DLI #2: Improved student performance 
20,000,000
3. DLI #3: Annual performance milestones 
38,000,000
met by the HED and Selected Institutions 
N/A
4. DLI #4: Revised regulations on the
creation/composition of GBs and their
functioning issued by the HED and 
18,000,000
percentage of affiliated government-aided
colleges that implement the regulations
5. DLI # 5: Improved fiduciary management 
20,000,000
in Selected Institutions
(2) Eligible 
Expenditures 
for 
goods, 
non-
consulting 
services, 
consulting services,
Technical 
Assistance, 
Training 
and 
4,702,500 
1000/0
Workshops and Incremental Operating Costs
for the Project
(3) Front-end Fee 
Amount payable
pursuant to Section
2.03 of this
297.500 
Agreement in
accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of
the General
Conditions
-12-
Percentage of
Amount of the 
Eligible
Loan Allocated 
Expenditures to
Category 
(expressed in 
be Financed
USD) 
(inclusive of
Taxes)
(4) 
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar 
Amount due
premiurn 
0 
pursuant to Section
2.084c) of this
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
119,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions for the Program
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section V, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
for purposes of Section 2.03 of the General Conditions, for DLIs achieved prior to
the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals may be made on account of
results under DLR # 3.1 (Category I (c)) achieved prior to the date of signature of
this Agreement, and not later than September S0, 2017; and
(b) 
for any DLR under any subcategory in Category (1), until and unless the Borrower
has furnished evidence satisfactory to the Band that said DLR has been achieved.
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B. I(b) of this Section, if the Bank is not satisfied
that any of the DLR(s) set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement has/have been achieved
by the end of the respective Year(s) in which said DLR(s) is/are set to be achieved, and/or
the Allocated Amount(s) of such DLR(s) has/have npt been fully withdrawn, the Bank
may, at any time, by notice to the Borrower, decide, in its sole discretion, to:
(a) 
authorize the withdrawal of such lesser amount of the respective Loan amount then
allocated to said DLR(s) which, in the opinion of the Bank, corresponds to the
extent of achievement of said DLR(s),
(b) 
withhold all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said DLR(s)
until such DLR(s) is/are satisfactorily met or
(c) 
reallocate all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said DLR(s)
to any other DLR(s); and/or
(d) 
cancel all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said DLR(s).
-13-
C. 
Withdrawal Conditions for the Project
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section V, no withdrawal shall be made
for payments made in respect of the Project prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed one million United States Dollars
(USD 1,000,000) may be made for payments made prior up to twelve months prior to the
signature of this Agreement, for Eligible Expenditures under Category (2).
D. 
Withdrawal Conditions Applicable to the Operation; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section V, if at any time after the Closing
Date the Borrower has failed to provide evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the
Withdrawn Loan Balance does not exceed the aggregate of the total amount of Program
Expenditures 
and Eligible Expenditures paid by the Borrower on account of
implementation of the Operation (exclusive of any such expenditures financed by any other
financier or by the Bank under any other loan, credit or grant), the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such excess amount of the Withdrawn Loan
Balance. The Bank shall cancel the refunded amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance.
2. 
The Closing Date is November 30, 2022.
SCHEDULE 3
Disbursement Linked Indicators, Disbursement Linked Results and Allocated Amounts Applicable to the Program
RE. 
to 
"IN 
In M 
REus t rs to at 
RESULTS TO BE 
REtM I iN tonB 
RESULTS TO BE
Oisai R 
st " I 
alSF- 
AtmvvtDIN 
Aimfav 
N 
ACHIEVEDIN 
AcHinlvDi% 
0t120/21 
ACHIEVEDINFY202I/22
t%on i*. 
Fl2017/1(11ita 
VY20tg/I90Wsa 21 
FY2019/20(YEAR3) 
(N Fo4) 
(YEARS)
1)
1. Improved qmasIty of
Seected Inostiudes
(Percentage of selected 
20% 
DLR 1.1 
DLR 1.2 
DLR 13
colleges that have 
25% of colleges 
30% of colleges 
35% of colleges
improved their NAAC
grade from the previous
cycle of accreditation)
USS 6.000,000 
USS 6,000,000 
US$ 6,000,000
Disbursement 
Disbursement 
Disbursement prorated
prorated for each 
prorated for each 
for each additional
AItocomed 
additional 
additional percentage 
percentage points of
Anlt 
percentage points 
points of colleges 
colleges that have
Aou 
of college that 
that have improved 
improved their NAAC
US I9,MN 
have improved 
their NAAC grade 
grade over Year 4
their NAAC grade 
over Year 3 target, 
target, US$ 1.2 million
over the baseline, 
USS 1.2 million will 
will be disbursed.
USS 1.2 million 
be disbursed.
will be disbursed.
* These DLRs are not time-bound, except for DLRs 3.1, 3.2 (a), and 5.1 (a), 5.2(a), 5.3 (a), 5.2 (b), 5.3 (b), and 5.4 (b) (to be met not later than specific
deadlines). The Fiscal Years in which they are expected to be achieved as per this Schedule are strictly for indicative purposes. These DLRs should he met
and verified up and until the Closing Date.
- 15-
RsI3 I s 
Io Io 
itI rK 
tIt 
R 
ist 1s 
toas 
RESUTs Tmou 
Rist IISk i t
DissuRSEMENT LINKED 
BASELINE 
0A1( 
9 AR 
4(itEVED IvliN 
AltEEDm 
INutt 
i 
olis N 
1 20/2f2l 
% iot 
1% I oI1 ) 1 2402l"2
INDICATORS' 
FV208113/19 (VtAx 2) 
F1 2019O2 
(YEAR 3) 
(1 C4R 4) 
(YEAR 5)
. Improved student 
Total: 60 
DLR 2.1 
DLR 2.2
performance 
SC: 51 
(a)Total: 5% points over 
(a)Total: 5% points over
Increased on-time 
ST: 42 
baseline 
Year 4 target
graduation rate of 
Women: 67 
DLR 2.1 
DLR 2.2
students in 
(b)SC:5% points over 
(b)SC 5% points over
undergraduate degree 
basliInc 
Year 4 target
programs in Selected 
DLR 2.1 
pIotR 
2.2
Institutions 
(c)ST: 5% points over 
(c)ST: 5% points over
(disaggregated by 
baseline 
Year 4 target
women, ST. SC and 
DLR 2.1 
DLR 2.2
total students) 
(d) Women: 5% points 
(d)Women: 5% points
over baseline 
over Year 4 target
DLR 2.1 (a): 
DLR 2.2 (a):
US$2.5 million 
IS$25 million
DLR 2.1 (b): USS2.5 
1)LR 2.2 1b):
million 
USS2.5 million
DLR 2.1 (c): 
DLR 2.2 (c):
US$2.5 million 
IISS2 5 million
Allocated Amounts 
DLR 2.1 (d): 
t)i R 2.2 (d):
US$2.5 million 
USS2.5 million
(1S5 20,000,00
Disbursement prorated 
Disbursement prorated for
for each additional 
eact additional percentage
percentage point 
point achieved over the
achieved over the 
Year 4 target. US$0 5
Baseline. US$ 0 5 
million will be dishursed
million will he disbursed
R111F.- 
.
. ...
i 
..
- 16-
RESULS TOt E 
R 
as t 
s 
is 
o a 
REtL is 
mto 
at 
I 
A To at 
RESULTS TO BE
IMSsMnuISrt 1Ik t) 
BASELINE 
ACHIKVKDA 
r 
4(110 ED IN 
ACItEVIED IF' t1 2020121 
ACIBEVED IN FV2021/22
1%01u AT(Ra* 
FY 
I7S(WAR 
FY20181/19(1 
2) 
FY619/20 
tFAR 3) 
(Vt 4R 1) 
(VEAR5)
3. Annualperfiortmance 
0% of lastiltudeas 
DLR 3.1 
DLR 3.2(m): 
DLR 3.3(a) 
DLR 3.4(a) 
DLIR 3.5(a)
nltener Per 6by te 
acieving ammal 
HED has selected 
HED has selected ID 
PMU achieves annual 
PMU achieves annual 
PMU achieves annual
IED andSeleced 
performance 
IDG Colleges and 
Colleges and IDO 
milestones 
milestones 
milestones
InstlMdeoms 
milIestnes 
[DG Universities 
Universities for Round
fbr Round I 
2 
DLR 33(b) 
DLR 3.4(b) 
DLR 3.5(b)
75% of the Selected 
75% of the Selected 
75% of the Selected
Deadline: 
DLR 3.2(b): 
Institutions achieve at 
Institutions achieve at 
Institutions achieve at
September 30. 
HED-PMU achieve 
least 60% of 
least 80% of institution- 
least 80% of institution-
2017 
annual milestones 
institution-based 
based annual common 
based annual common
annual common 
milestones 
milestones
DIR 3.2(c): 
milestones
75% of the selected
institutions achieve at
least 40% of
insttiton-based
annual milestones
DLR 3.2(a): 
DLR 33(a): 
DLR 3.4(a): 
DLR 3.5(a):
US$5 million 
USS3 million 
US53 million 
USS3 million
DLR3.(b)* 
DLR3.3(b), 
DLILIA(b): 
LR 3.5(b):
USS 8million 
US$3 million 
US$3 million 
US$3 million
US3 
I 
Dlltrionet prorated 
Distbursement prorated 
Disbursement prorated
Dismment prorated 
based on increase in 
based on increase in 
based on increase in
Amont A caed 
in 
percentage of 
percentage of institutions 
percentage of institutions
US38000 
USS4,000.000 
acen 
e oinstitutions 
achieving 
achieving 80% of 
achieving 80% of
lastiens achieving 
60% of institution- 
insttion-based annual 
institution-based annual
40% of iatitution- 
based annual 
milestones: For each 25 
milestoner For each 25
bsed annual 
milestnes: For each 
percentage points 
percentage points
misatones: For eac 
25 percentage points 
achieved over baseline of 
achieved over baseline of
23percentagepoifts 
achieved over baseline 
0, USS I million will be 
0, US$ I million will be
aieved er 
baseline 
of 0. USS I million 
disbursed 
disbursed
of 0, US$ I million 
will be disbursed
will be disbursed
-17-
Rrst I- is Io 
RIl 
r It$ ns 
RESULTSTosE 
Rt'% I t'o141ur 
RESUoLTSTO BE
11%xia 
st 
l 
Mt 
I I 
BASELINE 
I4IDI 
%tu l 
o tS 
ACcIEVEDIN 
ACHIEVEDINFV2020/21 
ACHIEVED IN FY2021/22
lI)l 
Ank 
FN12018/190 
l2) 
IFY2019120 (YEAR3 
1 
Fk4 
(VEARS)
4. Resked regulations on 
0% of colleges 
DLR 4.1 
DLR 4.2 
DLR 4.3
the creade/coamposidon 
implement the 
HED has revised 
50% of colleges 
90% of colleges
of GBz aid their 
revised guidelines 
and issued the 
impicment the revised 
implement the revised
fancioning issed by the 
guidelines fi 
guidelines 
guidelines
HED and percentage of 
creation/
qfflilatedgiovernment- 
composition of
aided colleges that 
GBs in colleges
implement the
regatertons
(USS6.000.000 
IISS6.000,000 
US$6,000.000
Disbursement pro- 
Disbursement pro-
rated for each 
rated for each
additional 10 
additional 10
Allocaled Anount 
percentage points 
percentage points
Uss 18.00,000 
achieved over baseline 
achieved over Year 2
of 0. USs 1.2 million 
target, US$ 1.5 million
will be disbursed. 
will be disbursed
5. Imprvdflduclary 
5(l) 0% of selected 
DLR 5.1(a) 
DLR 5.2(s) 
DLR 5.3(m) 
DLR 5.4(b)
managemnext in Selected 
aided colleges 
HED issued an 
-
60% of Selected 
90% of Selected 
60% offall contracts
Institudins 
completed data 
executive office 
Institutions completed 
institutions completed 
awarded by Selected
(I) Percenege ofSelected 
entry using online 
order mandating 
data entry using online 
data entry using online 
institutions are within
Inthaioas that 
FM system 
the use of online 
FM system 
FM system 
original validity period
completed data enty 
FM system in
using onlireftil 
5(11) 0% of 
government-sided
anageaent (FM 
contracts awarded 
colleges m Odisha
sysmnf 
(eN1line 
within original
accainfing S ) 
validity period 
IIR 5.1 (b) 
DLR 5.2(b) 
DLR 5.3(b)
HED issued order 
40% of all contracts 
50% of all contracts
(II) Enhanced procurement 
to higher education 
awarded by Selected 
awarded by Selected
manageatent 
institutions for 
I_I
- 18 -
RCSICT To W 
RESULTS ToB 
RttstuTs o at 
RFsiC1T to an 
Ristt sio t
DsuaEFrIIhu 
BASCUMs 
A(Mv %4 V 
ACHIEVIEDmI 
Atlust%lnrs 
Acturviol 
0 4112020121 
ACu 
Ir a 1% 
V 
02N 2
INmeDI oU 
M) 
FY2018/l9 (YEAR 2) 
FNY2019120 (YEr 4 t 3) 
(1CAN 4) 
LAIR 
5)
adoption of HED 
Institutions are within 
Institutions are within
Procurement 
original validity period 
original validity period
Manual
DLR 5.1(a): 
DLR 5.2(): 
DLR 5.3(a): 
LR 5.4(b):
USS4 million 
US$3 million 
USS3 million 
US$2 million
Deadline:
September 30, 
Disbursement pro- 
Disbursement pro- 
Disbursement pro-rated
2017 
rated for each 10 
rated for each 15 
for each 15 percentage
percentage poits 
percentage points 
points achieved over
DLR 5.I(b): 
achieved over the 
achieved over 
baseline of0, US $0.5
USS4 million 
baseline of 0, US$ 5 
baseline of 0, US$ 
million will be
Deadline: 
million will disbursed 
0.5 million will be 
disbursed
October 31. 2017 
disbursed
Allocated Assents 
DL 
5.()idsbre
us$ 20.0"We 
US$2 million 
OR53b-
flSS 20,000.ga 
DLRI 5.3(b):
Disbursement pro- 
US$2 million
redforeach 10 
Disbursement pro-
pecentage poimts 
rated for each 12.5
ashieved over 
5he 
percentage points
Issadine of 0, USS 0. 5 
achieved over
million will disbursed 
baseline of0, US
$0.5 million will be
disbursed
SCHEDULE 4
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a)
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment
Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted. as necessary.
to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each February 1, and August 1
Beginning August 1, 2023 
4.0%
through August 1. 2035
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as
of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding
on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall
be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
-20-
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion ofthe Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating
to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated. in each Loan
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-21-
APPENDIX
Section 1. Definitions
1. 
"Allocated Amounts" means the amount in United States Dollars allocated to each
individual DLR, or determined for each DLR pursuant to the formula detailed in Schedule
3 to this Agreement, as such amount might be increased, reallocated and/or cancelled
(whether partially or in its entirety) by the Bank. from time to time, as the case may be, in
accordance with the provisions of Section V.B.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section V.A2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
3. 
"Disbursement Linked Indicator" or "DLI" means each of the disbursement linked
indicators listed in the first column of the table set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
4. 
"Disbursement Linked Result" or "DLR" means each of the disbursement linked
targets/results set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement in the columns entitled "Results to
be Achieved in FY2017/18 (Year 1)", "Results to be Achieved in FY2018/19 (Year 2)",
"Results to be Achieved in FY2019/20 (Year 3)", Results to be Achieved in FY2020/21
(Year 4)", or "Results to be Achieved in FY2021/22 (Year 5)", as applicable.
5. 
"ESSA" means the Environmental and Social Systems Assessment, dated July 24, 2017
and published in Infoshop on August 7, 2017 applicable to the Program, setting forth the
description of the Program's activities, assessing the Borrower's and Implementing
Entity's environmental and social management systems, detailing the Program's
environmental and social benefits, risks, and impacts, and recommending remedial
measures to strengthen the social and environmental systems performance.
6. 
"Fiscal Year" or "FY" means the Borrower's and Implementing Entity's fiscal year, as the
case may be. For purposes of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, FY means the Borrower's
fiscal year which begins on April 1 of each calendar year and ends on March 31 of the next
calendar year.
7. 
"GB" means the governing board of a college or university within the State of Odisha.
8. 
"General Conditions" means:
(a) 
For the Project: the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set
forth in Section II of this Appendix: and
(b) 
For the Program: the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12. 2012, with the modifications set
forth in Section II and Ill of this Appendix.
9. 
"HED" means the State of Odisha's Higher Education Department, or any successor
thereto.
- 22 -
10. 
"IDG" means the Institutional Development Grant and refers to the IDG Grant for
Colleges, and the IDG Grant for Universities collectively.
I1. 
"IDG College" means a college within Odisha that has been selected to receive financing
under the IDG Grant for Colleges in accordance with the eligibility criteria, selection
process, and other requirements set forth in the Operations Manual for IDG Grant for
Colleges, and in accordance with Section IJ of the Schedule to the Implementing Entity
Agreement.
12. 
"IDG College Grant Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into by and between
the Implementing Entity and an IDG College, pursuant to Section 1J.2 of the Schedule to
the Implementing Entity Agreement. and in accordance with the Operations Manual for
IDG Grant for Colleges.
13. 
"IDG Grant for Colleges" means the grant to be awarded by the Implementing Entity to
colleges within Odisha, under the terms of the IDG College Grant Agreement and on the
basis of the procedure and criteria stipulated in the Operations Manual for IDG Grant for
Colleges. and disbursed.
14. 
"IDG Grant for Universities" means the grant to be awarded by the Implementing Entity
to universities within Odisha. under the terms of the IDG University Grant Agreement and
on the basis of the procedure and criteria stipulated in the Operations Manual for IDG Grant
for Universities, and disbursed.
15. 
"IDG University" means a university within Odisha that has been selected to receive
financing under the IDG Grant for Universities in accordance with the eligibility criteria,
selection process, and other requirements set forth in the Operations Manual for IDG Grant
for Universities, and in accordance with Section L.K of the Schedule to the Implementing
Entity Agreement.
16, 
"IDG University Grant Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into by and between
the Implementing Entity and an IDG University, pursuant to Section LIK.2 of the Schedule
to the Implementing Entity Agreement. and in accordance with the Operations Manual for
IDG Grant for Universities.
17. 
"IDP" means Institutional Development Plan to be prepared and submitted by a college or
a university in order to apply for the IDG Grant for Colleges or the IDG Grant for
Universities, as applicable, and shall include, inter alia, plan for utilization of IDG grant,
annual targets, budget, and monitoring indicators, as amended from time in accordance
with the Operations Manual for IDG Grant for Colleges or the Operations Manual for IDG
Grant for Universities, as applicable.
18. 
"Implementing Entity" means the Borrower's State of Odisha.
19. 
"Implementing Entity Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and the
Implementing Entity relating to the implementation of the Operation, as such agreement
may be amended from time to time with the prior written concurrence of the Bank. The
"Implementing Entity Agreement" includes the General Conditions as applied to the
- 23-
Implementing Entity Agreement. and all appendices, schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Implementing Entity Agreement.
20. 
"IUFRs" means the interim unaudited financial reports referred to in Section Ill.D of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
21. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the incremental expenditures which include the
normal expenditures of the Operation, such as reasonable costs of goods and services
required for the day-to-day implementation of the Operation, including operating and
maintenance cost of vehicles and equipment; office supplies, utilities, consumables (office
rental) and maintenance; bank charges; advertising expenses; consultant fees:
communications; travel of staff (including per diems and accommodation); and salaries,
allowances, and benefits of selected contracted support staff. but excluding salaries and
salary top-ups of civil servants of the Government.
22. 
"IVA" means the Independent Verification Agent to be appointed by the Implementing
Entity for the purpose of verifying DLRs in accordance with Section IlL.C(a) of the
Schedule 2 to the Implementing Entity Agreement.
23. 
"NAAC" means the Borrower's National Assessment and Accreditation Council, or any
successor thereto.
24. 
"Odisha" means the Implementing Entity. i.e. the Borrower's State of Odisha.
25. 
"Operation" means, collectively, all activities described under the Program and the Project
in Schedule I to this Agreement.
26. 
"Operations Manual for IDG Grant for Colleges" means the manual to be prepared by the
PMU to lay down the arrangements, policies, and procedures to guide the implementation
of the IDG Grant for Colleges in a manner and substance satis&ctory to the Bank for
purposes of carrying out the Operation. which manual shall include. iner alia: (i) the
eligible activities to be included in the IDP by colleges; (ii) the financial modalities of the
IDP; and (iii) the procedures and criteria for the evaluation of the IDP proposals submitted
by colleges, as the same might be amended from time to time with the prior concurrence
of the Bank.
27. 
"Operations Manual for IDG Grant for Universities" means the manual to be prepared by
the PMU to lay down the arrangements, policies, and procedures to guide the
implementation of the IDG Grant for Universities, in a manner and substance satisfactory
to the Bank for purposes of carrying out the Operation, which manual shall include, inter
alia: (i) the eligible activities to be included in the IDP by universities; (ii) the financial
modalities of the IDP; (iii) the procedures and criteria for the evaluation of the IDP
proposals submitted by universities; and (iv) the eligibility criteria for Centers of
Excellence proposals and the procedures and criteria for their selection, as the same might
be amended from time to time with the prior concurrence of the Bank
28. 
"PIM" means the Program Implementation Manual to be prepared by the PMU to provide
the arrangements, policies, and procedures to guide the implementation of the Operation
on a day-to-day basis, in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank for purposes of
- 24 -
carrying out the Operation, which manual shall include, inter alia: (i) the Program and
Project description; (ii) the implementation arrangements and plan for the Program and
Project; (iii) the results framework and monitoring arrangements; (iv) planned technical
support and capacity building activities; (v) timeline of key actions to be taken under the
Program; and (vi) budgets, as the same might be amended from time to time with the prior
concurrence of the Bank.
29. 
"PMU" means HED's Program Management Unit, to be maintained by the Implementing
Entity pursuant to sub-paragraph (1) of Section LA of the Schedule to the Implententing
Entity Agreement.
30. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Implementing Entity's procurement plan for the Project.
dated August 1, 2017, and provided for under Section IV of the Procurement Regulations.
as the same my be updated from time to time in agreement with the Bank.
31. 
"Procurement Regulations" means the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for
Borrowers wnder Investment Project Financing", dated July 1, 2016.
32. 
"Program" means, collectively, the activities described in Part I of the Schedule I to this
Agreement
33. 
"Program Action Plan" meants the set of priority actions agreed by the Borrower and the
Bank for the strengthening of the Borrower's and the Ihplementing Entity's, sectoral and
institutional frameworks (including the Program Fiduciary and Environental and Social
Systems), dated August 1. 2017, and referred to in Section LB of the Schedule to the
Implementing Entity Agreement, as may be amended from timne to time with the written
agreement of the Bank.
34. 
"Program Fiduciary, Environmental and Social Systems" means the Borrower's and
Implementing Entity's systems for the Program referred to in Section LF of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
35. 
"Project" means the activities described in Part 11 of the Schedule I to this Agreement.
36. 
"SC" means a scheduled caste set out in the Constitution of India aid as amended from
time to time.
37. 
-Selected Institutions" means IDG Colleges and IDG Universities collectively.
38. 
"Sr" means a scheduled tribe set out in the Constitution of India aid as amended from
time to time.
39. 
"Training and Workshops" means the training study tours, conferences and workshops
conducted and/or attended by staff from the Implementing Entity and/or other stakeholders.
in the territory of the Borrower or, subject to the Banks' prior no objection, overseas,
including the purchase and publication of materials. rental of fifities, course fees, and
lodging, travel expenses and per diemis for trainers and/or trainees.
-25-
40. 
"Year" means any of the Years I through 5 of the implementation of the Operation. and
the context shall determine.
41. 
"Year I" means the first year of implementation of Operation activities, which have taken
place in the Borrower's Fiscal Year 2017/18 in order to achieve the results shown in the
third column of the table in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
42. 
"Year 2" means the second year of implementation of Operation activities, expected to take
place in the Borrower's Fiscal Year 2018/19 in order to achieve the results shown in the
fourth column of the table in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
43. 
"Year 3" means the third year of implementation of Operation activities, expected to take
place in the Borrower's Fiscal Year 2019/20 in order to achieve the results shown in the
fifth column of the table in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
44. 
"Year 4" means the fourth year of implementation of Operation activities, expected to take
place in the Borrower's Fiscal Year 2020/21 in order to achieve the results shown in the
sixth column of the table in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
45. 
"Year 5" means the fifth year of implementation of Operation activities, expected to take
place in the Borrower's Fiscal Year 2021/22 in order to achieve the results shown in the
seventh column of the table in Schedule 3 to this Agreement
Section II 
Modifications to the General Conditions for purposes of Project and Program
Implementation
The modifications of the General Conditions for the Project and Program are as follows:
I. 
Whenever used throughout the General Conditions, the term "Project Report" is modified
to read "Progress Report.
2. 
Whenever used throughout the General Conditions, the term "the Project Agreement" is
modified to read "the Implementing Entity Agreement", and the term "Project
Implementing Entity" is modified to read "the Implementing Entity".
3. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually
in arrears on each Payment Date."
-26-
4. 
In the Appendix, Definitions. all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above.
5. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition
of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01
(a).
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition
of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, interest at the
Default Interest Rate (if any), the Commitment Charge, any surcharge and any prepayment
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any) any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower."
8. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and
Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
Section i. 
Modifications to the General Conditions and Section II above for purposes of
Program Implementation.
The modification to the General Conditions for the Program are as follows:
I. 
Wherever used throughout the General Conditions, the term "the Project" is modified to
read "the Program", the term "Project Report' is modified to read "Program Report", and
the term "Eligible Expenditures" is modified to read "Program Expenditures".
2. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the amendments set forth below.
3. 
Section 2.02,. Special Commitment by the Bank, is deleted in its entirety, and the subsequent
Sections in Article 11 are renumbered accordingly.
4. 
In Section 2.02 (originally numbered as Section 2.03), the heading "Applications for
Withdrawal or for Special Commitment" is replaced with "Applications for Withdrawal",
and the phrase "or to request the Bank to enter into a Special Commitment" is deleted.
5. 
The section originally numbered as Section 2.04, Designated Accoints is deleted in its
entirety, and the subsequent Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
- 27 -
6. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (originally numbered as Section 2.05). Eligible Expenditures
(renamed "Program Expenditures" in accordance with paragraph I of this Section Il). is
modified to read: *(a) the payment is for the financing of the reasonable cost of
expenditures required for the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
in accordance with the provisions of the Legal Agreements;".
7. 
The last sentence of Section 2.04 (originally numbered as Section 2.06), Financing Taxes,
is modified to read: "To that end. if the Bank at any time determines that the amount of any
such Tax is excessive, or that such Tax is discriminatory or otherwise unreasonable, the
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower. exclude such amount or such Tax from the Program
Expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. as required to ensure
consistency with such policy of the Bank."
8. 
Section 2.06 (originally numbered as Section 2.08). Reallocation, is modified to read:
"Notwithstanding any allocation of an amount of the Loan to a withdrawal category under
the Loan Agreement, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, reallocate any other amount
of the Loan to such category if the Bank reasonably determines at any time that such
reallocation is appropriate for the purposes of the Program.
9. 
Section 7.01, Cancellation by the Borrower, is modified to read: "The Borrower may, by
notice to the Bank, cancel any amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance."
10. 
Paragraph (d) of Section 7.03, Cancellation by the Bank, entitled "Misprocurement", is
deleted, and subsequent paragraphs are relettered accordingly.
11. 
Section 7.04, Amounts Subject to Special Commitment not Affected by Cancellation or
Suspension by the Bank, is deleted in its entirety, and subsequent Sections in Article VII
and references to such Sections are renumbered accordingly.
12. 
In the Appendix. Defiltions, all references to Section numbers and paragraphs are
modified, as necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above.
13. 
Renumbered paragraph 88 (originally paragraph 87) of the Appendix. setting forth the
definition of "Special Commitment" is deleted in its entirety, and all subsequent paragraphs
are renumbered accordingly.
