OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8614-VN
Loan Agreement
(Vinh Phuc Flood Risk and Water Management Project)
between
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 3 
oUr2Ar ,2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 3 
r\04 
, 2017, between SOCIALIST
REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred fifty million Dollars
(USD150,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through
a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
-2-
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through Vinh Phuc Province - acting
-3-
through Vinh Phuc Provincial People's Committee (Vinh Phuc PPC) - in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that,
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed by the Borrower, acting through
its Ministry of Finance, and Vinh Phuc PPC.
4.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and Vinh
Phuc PPC and is legally binding upon the Borrower and Vinh Phuc PPC in
accordance with its terms.
4.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Governor, or a Deputy Governor, of State
Bank of Vietnam.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
State Bank of Vietnam
49 Ly Thai To
Hanoi, Vietnam
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
VIETBANK 
412248 
(84-4) 3825 0612
Hanoi 
NHTTWVT
-4-
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
AGREED at Hanoi, Socialist Republic of Vietnam, as of the day and year first
above written.
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
L--K 
" 
+tklkl
Title: Gvrvre4iQ
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 0O0SIMUOJ 
\ 
0Co,
Title: Co-igritq A 
eopt
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to strengthen flood risk management capacity and
improve wastewater management in the central catchment of Vinh Phuc Province.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Flood Risk Management
Improving flood risk management in Vinh Phuc Province through the provision of support
for:
(a) construction and rehabilitation of retention lakes to increase regulation capacity;
(b) construction of three drainage pumping stations and related canals to divert
excessive storm water from Basin B to Pho Day and Red River;
(c) dredging key sections along the Phan River to increase the discharge capacity; and
(d) construction of two flood control gates with associated embankments to prevent
storm water from Basin C entering Basin B.
Part 2: Water Environment Management
Improving the environmental conditions in the densely populated small towns and rural
communities as well as water quality in the Phan River by providing wastewater and
drainage services including through construction and rehabilitation of wastewater
collection and treatment facilities in district towns and rural villages.
Part 3: Implementation Support, Technical Assistance and Institutional
Strengthening
Provision of support for Project implementation, technical assistance and institutional
strengthening including through:
(a) carrying out detailed engineering designs, construction supervision, safeguard
monitoring, Vinh Phuc Project Management Office support and other related
activities;
(b) designing and establishing water resource, flood information and early warning
systems;
-6-
(c) operation and maintenance of assets to be built under the project, including
training, development of operation manuals, and provision of necessary
equipment; and
(d) institutional development for river basin management and water related sectors in
an integrated manner.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements.
1 
The Borrower shall cause Vinh Phuc Province acting through Vinh Phuc PPC to
maintain, throughout the implementation of the Project, the Vinh Phuc Project
Management Office ("VPMO") under the direction of qualified management and
provided with sufficient resources, and staffed with competent personnel in
adequate numbers, in each case with qualifications, experience and under terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank, to be responsible for the overall management and
coordination of the Project, the day-to-day implementation of the Project, and the
monitoring and evaluation of Project achievements and impacts.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause Vinh Phuc Province acting through its People's
Committee to maintain, throughout the implementation of the Project, the Project
Steering Committee ("PSC") chaired by the Chair or Vice Chair of Vinh Phuc PPC
, or any successor thereto, and with composition, mandate, staffing and resources
satisfactory to the Bank for the purpose of providing strategic direction and
oversight and facilitating coordination of all relevant administrative agencies and
departments of Vinh Phuc PPC for effective Project implementation.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause Vinh Phuc Province acting through Vinh Phuc PPC to
ensure the following, for the purposes of implementing the Project, that:
(a) 
relevant departments and agencies of Vinh Phuc PPC 
provide the
necessary support for the effective implementation of the Project,
including support related to financial, technical, environmental matters as
well as land acquisition and resettlement of Displaced Persons in
accordance with the relevant operational policies of the Bank;
(b) 
necessary counterpart resources including financial support to implement
the Project are provided in a timely manner and satisfactory to the Bank;
and
(c) 
all works and services under the Project are carried out in a timely manner
and in accordance with the relevant contractual instruments.
-8-
B. 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds
of the Loan available to Vinh Phuc Province under a subsidiary loan agreement
between the Borrower and Vinh Phuc PPC, under terms and conditions - including
on-lending and repayment terms - acceptable to the Bank, which shall include the
obligation of Vinh Phuc PPC to:
(a) 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of loan proceeds
other than the Borrower;
(b) 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
the Project Operations Manual, and except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree in writing, not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be
assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned, or any
provision thereof;
(c) 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
the Safeguard Instruments, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree
in writing, not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be assigned,
amended, abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned, or any provision
thereof;
(d) 
ensure that: (i) an acceptable financial management system is maintained
and financial statements are prepared in accordance with consistently
applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner
adequate to reflect the operations and financial condition of Vinh Phuc
Province, including the operations, resources, and expenditures related to
the Project; and (ii) such statements are audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing
standards acceptable to the Bank, and such audited financial statements
are furnished to the Borrower and the Bank and made publicly available
in a timely fashion and in a manner acceptable to the Bank; and
(e) 
ensure that procurement of the goods, works, and non-consulting and
consultants' services required for the Project is carried out in accordance
with the provisions of Section III of this Schedule 2, as said provisions
may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
-9-
Agreement or any of its provisions reflecting the terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank referred to in paragraph I of this Section I.B.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D. 
Project Operations Manual
1 .
The Borrower shall: (a) ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with
the Project Operations Manual; and (b) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree
in writing, not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be assigned,
amended, abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned, or any provision thereof.
2. 
In the event of a conflict between the provisions of such Project Operations Manual
and those of this Agreement, the latter shall govern.
E. 
Safeguards
1 .
The Borrower shall and shall cause Vinh Phuc PPC to:
(a) 
take all necessary actions to avoid or minimize to the extent possible any
involuntary relocation of persons, or their loss of shelter, assets, or access
to assets, or loss of income sources or means of livelihood, temporarily or
permanently; and
(b) 
in the event that Project activities give rise to Displaced Persons, prior to
the commencement of such activities, cause to be prepared, a Resettlement
Action Plan (RAP), acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with the
guidelines, requirements and procedures set forth in the Resettlement
Policy Framework, and thereafter implement in a timely manner said RAP.
2. 
The Borrower shall and shall cause Vinh Phuc PPC to ensure that all land
acquisition required for the purposes of carrying out works under the Project are
financed exclusively out of its own resources, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the resources needed for these purposes, including: (a) all land acquisition
required for the purposes of carrying out the Project; (b) resettlement and
rehabilitation payments to Displaced Persons; and (c) all other costs associated with
environmental and/or social mitigation measures set forth in the Safeguard
Instruments.
3. 
The Borrower shall and shall cause Vinh Phuc PPC to:
-10-
(a) implement in a timely manner the Environmental and Social Management
Plans in accordance with Environmental and Social Impact Assessment
acceptable to the Bank, as the case may be;
(b) ensure that no civil works carried out under Parts 1 and 2 of the Project, shall
commence unless and until the relevant Safeguards Instruments are furnished
to the Bank and all requisite consultation and public disclosure activities have
been carried out, all in a manner and form satisfactory to the Bank; and,
(c) ensure that technical assistance activities under Part 3 of the Project are
undertaken in accordance with the guidelines, requirements and procedures set
forth in the Safeguards Instruments and the relevant operational policies of the
Bank.
4. 
The Borrower shall cause Vinh Phuc PPC to prepare Ethnic Minorities Development
Plans (EMDPs), acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with the guidelines,
requirements and procedures set forth in the Ethnic Minorities Development Policy
Framework, and thereafter implement in a timely manner said EMDPs.
5. 
The Borrower shall cause Vinh Phuc PPC to prepare Dam Safety Instruments (DSIs),
acceptable to the Bank, and thereafter implement in a timely manner the dam safety
measures contained in said DSIs (and the plans included therein or developed
thereunder as accepted by the Bank).
6. 
The Borrower shall and shall cause Vinh Phuc PPC to:
(a) 
not amend, revise or waive, nor allow to be amended, revised or waived,
the provisions of the Safeguard Instruments or any provision of any one
thereof, without the prior written agreement of the Bank; and
(b) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, the
implementation of the Safeguard Instruments.
7. 
In case of any inconsistency between the provisions of any of the Safeguard
Instruments and this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
8. 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph 1 of Section II.A of this Schedule
2, the Borrower shall cause the Vinh Phuc PPC to take all measures necessary on its
part to regularly collect, compile, and submit to the Bank, as part of the Project
Reports, information on the status of compliance with the Safeguards Instruments,
giving details of:
(a) 
measures taken in furtherance of the Safeguards Instruments;
-11-
(b) 
conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the smooth
implementation of the Safeguards Instruments; and
(c) 
remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such
conditions.
Section H. 
Project Monitorin2 Reportin2 and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1 .
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and cause
Vinh Phuc PPC to prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators acceptable
to the Bank and as set forth in the Project Operations Manual. Each Project Report
shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.
2. 
No later than December 31, 2018, the Borrower shall, in conjunction with the
Bank, carry out a mid-term review of the Project (the "Mid-term Review"),
covering the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall cause Vinh Phuc PPC to prepare and furnish to the Bank not
less than three (3) months prior to the beginning of the Mid-term Review, a report
integrating the results of the Project's monitoring and evaluation activities, on the
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the
date of such report, and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objective of the
Project during the period following such date. Following the Mid-term Review,
the Borrower shall act promptly and diligently in order to take, or cause to be taken,
any corrective action deemed necessary by the Bank to remedy any shortcoming
noted in the carrying out of the Project in furtherance of the objective of the Project.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1 .
The Borrower shall maintain or cause Vinh Phuc PPC to maintain a financial
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the
General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
cause Vinh Phuc PPC to prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five
(45) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial
reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to
the Bank.
-12-
3. 
The Borrower shall cause Vinh Phuc PPC to have the Financial Statements audited
in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of
the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
National Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding procedures subject to the
additional procedures set out in the Annex to this Schedule.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than National Competitive Bidding, may
be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those
contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) International Competitive
Bidding; (b) Shopping; and (c) Direct Contracting.
-13-
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; 
(d) Selection based on Consultants'
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Procedures set
forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of
Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised
from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant
to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
-14-
Category 
Amount of the 
Percentage of Expenditures to be
Loan 
financed
Allocated 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(expressed in
USD)
(1) Works for Parts 1 and 
91,324,000 
85%
2 of the Project
(2) Goods, Consultants' 
49,221,000 
100%
services, 
Non-consulting
Services and Training and
Workshops 
under 
the
Project
(3) Front-end Fee 
375,000 
Amount payable pursuant to Section
2.03 
of 
this 
Agreement 
in
accordance with Section 2.07 (b) of
the General Conditions
(4) Commitment Charge 
1,200,000 
Amount 
payable 
pursuant 
to
Section 2.04 of this Agreement in
accordance with Section 2.07 (c) of
the General Conditions
(5) Interest on the Loan 
7,880,000 
Amount payable pursuant to Section
accrued on or before the 
2.05 
of 
this 
Agreement 
in
last 
Payment 
Date 
accordance with Section 2.07 (c) of
immediately preceding the 
the General Conditions
Closing Date.
(6) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to Section
Interest 
Rate 
Collar 
2.08(c) of this Agreement
premium
TOTAL AMOUNT 
150,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2021.
-15-
ANNEX to SCHEDULE 2
National Competitive Bidding: Additional Procedures
The procedures to be followed for the procurement of goods, non-consulting services, and
works under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding shall be those
set forth in: (a) Article 20 on Open Bidding of the Borrower's Law on Procurement
No. 43/2013/QH13 dated November 26, 2013 and related provisions necessary to effect
the same; and (b) the Borrower's Decree No. 63/2014/ND-CP Guiding Implementation of
the Law on the Procurement dated June 26, 2014 (collectively, "National Procurement
Laws"), 
subject to the provisions of Section I and Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the
"Guidelines for Procurement of Goods, Works, and Non-Consulting Services under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits & Grants by World Bank Borrowers" (dated January 2011, revised
July 2014) (the "Procurement Guidelines") and the following provisions:
Conflict of Interest
1. 
A bidder shall not have a conflict of interest. Any bidder found to have a conflict
of interest shall be ineligible for award of a contract. The provisions on conflict of interest
as stated under Section I of the Procurement Guidelines shall apply.
Eligibility
2. 
The eligibility of bidders shall be as defined under Section I of the Procurement
Guidelines; accordingly, no bidder or potential bidder shall be declared ineligible for
contracts financed by the Bank for reasons other than those provided in Section I of the
Guidelines. Foreign bidders shall be eligible to participate in bidding under the same
conditions as national bidders. In particular, no domestic preference over foreign bidders
shall be granted to national bidders in bid evaluation, nor shall foreign bidders be asked or
required to form joint ventures with or be subcontractors to national bidders in order to
submit a bid.
3. 
Government-owned enterprises or institutions of the Borrower's country are
eligible to bid in the Borrower's country only if they can establish that they: (i) are legally
and financially autonomous, (ii) operate under commercial law, and (iii) are not dependent
agencies of the Borrower or Sub-Borrower.
Time for Bid Preparation
4. 
The time allowed for the preparation and submission of bids for large and/or
complex packages shall not be less than thirty (30) days from the date of the invitation to
bid or the date of availability of the bidding documents, whichever is later.
-16-
Standard Bidding Documents
5. 
The standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
Bid Opening and Bid Evaluation
6. 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for submission of
bids, regardless of the number of bids received.
7. 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria that shall be
clearly specified in the bidding documents and quantified in monetary terms for evaluation
criteria other than price; merit points shall not be used in bid evaluation. No bid shall be
eliminated from detailed evaluation on the basis of minor, non-substantive deviations. The
evaluation of bidder's qualifications shall be conducted separately subsequent to the
technical and commercial evaluation of the bid.
8. 
A contract shall be awarded, within the period of the validity of bids, to the bidder
who meets the appropriate standards of capability and resources and whose bid has been
determined (i) to be substantially responsive to the bidding documents and (ii) to offer the
lowest evaluated cost. A bidder shall neither be required nor permitted, as a condition for
award, to undertake obligations not specified in the bidding documents or otherwise to
modify the bid as originally submitted.
9. 
No bid shall be rejected on the basis of a comparison with the employer's estimate
and budget ceiling without the Bank's prior written agreement.
Rejection of All Bids and Re-bidding
10. 
Rejection of all bids is justified when there is lack of effective competition, or all
bids are not substantially responsive, or no bidder meets the specified qualification criteria,
or the bid price of the lowest evaluated winning bid is substantially higher than the
Borrower's updated estimated cost or available budget. All bids shall not be rejected or
new bids solicited without the Bank's prior written agreement.
Complaints by Bidders and Handling of Complaints
11. 
The Borrower shall implement an effective and independent protest mechanism,
acceptable to the Bank, allowing bidders to protest and have their protests handled in a
timely manner.
-17-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each April land October 1
Beginning October 1, 2024 
2.63 %
through October 1, 2042
On April 1, 2043 
2.69%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
-18-
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
-19-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
3. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under LBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
4. 
"Dam Safety Instruments" means, collectively, the instrument acceptable to the
Bank, referred to in Section I.E.5 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and approved or
to be approved by Vinh Phuc PPC, including: (a) the dam safety reports, which
present, analyse and make recommendations on: (i) all conditions that could have a
bearing on the safety of the dam(s) and ancillary structures; (ii) the impact of a
failure of the dam(s) or ancillary structure(s) due to extreme natural conditions,
human error or structural error; and (iii) the present and the future institutional
framework that is necessary to avoid or mitigate adverse dam safety conditions; (b)
the plans for construction supervision and quality assurance; (c) the instrumentation
plans; (d) the operations and maintenance plans; and (e) the emergency
preparedness plans; all acceptable to the Bank.
5. 
"Displaced Person" means a person who, on account of implementation of the
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts
caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of
shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; or
(b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected
areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person; and
"Displaced Persons" means, collectively, all such persons.
6. 
"Environmental and Social Impact Assessment" means the environmental impact
assessment, acceptable to the Bank, approved by the Borrower's Ministry of
Natural Resources and Environment in respect of the Project, pursuant to its
Decision Number 520/ QD-BTNMT, dated March 11, 2016, and such term
includes any annexes or schedules to such assessment.
-20-
7. 
"Environment and Social Management Plan" or "ESMP" means environmental
and social management 
plan, to be agreed with the Bank and setting out
mitigation, enhancement, monitoring, reporting and institutional measures,
including capacity building through training, to eliminate any adverse
environmental or social impacts of activities to be implemented under the Project,
offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels, or enhance positive impacts, in
accordance with the provisions of the Environmental and Social Impact
Assessment, as the same may be modified from time to time with the prior written
agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any annexes or schedules to such
plans.
8. 
"Ethnic Minorities Development Plans" or "EMDPs" means the plans, acceptable
to the Bank, referred to in Section I.E.4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and
approved or to be approved by Vinh Phuc PPC; which set forth measures designed
to ensure that ethnic minority communities affected by the Project receive culturally
appropriate social and economic benefits, and if any potential adverse effects on
such communities are identified, measures to ensure their effects are avoided,
minimized, mitigated, or compensated for, as said EMDP may be revised from time
to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any
annexes or schedules to such plan.
9. 
"Ethnic Minorities Policy Framework" or "EMPF" means the framework,
acceptable to the Bank, adopted by the Borrower's Prime Minister pursuant to
Letter Number 490/Tg-QHQT, dated March 24, 2016 and referred to in Section
I.E.4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which sets forth the policies and procedures
to ensure that ethnic minority communities affected by the Project receive culturally
appropriate social and economic benefits, and if any potential adverse effects on
such communities are identified, measures to ensure their effects are avoided,
minimized, mitigated, or compensated, as well as the preparation of EMDPs during
the implementation of the Project, as said EMPF may be revised from time to time
with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any annexes
or schedules to such framework.
10. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
11. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under LBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
12. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
March 29, 2016 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines
-21-
and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
13. 
"Project Operations Manual" means the manual referred to in Section I.D of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and adopted by Vinh Phuc PPC pursuant to Letter
Number 
1467/UBND-CN2 
dated March 
16, 
2016 as amended and/or
supplemented from time to time, or any successor thereto.
14. 
"Project Steering Committee" means the committee established by Vinh Phuc PPC
pursuant to Decision Number 3246/QD-UBND dated November 7, 2014 and
Decision Number 914/QD-CT dated March 17, 2016, as amended and/or
supplemented from time to time, or any successor thereto.
15. 
"Resettlement Plans" means Vinh Phuc Province plans, acceptable to the Bank and
setting out detailed measures, covering those related to compensation payment and
support, including also mitigation, enhancement, monitoring, and institutional
measures, and capacity building through training, to carry out compensation,
support, resettlement, and livelihoods restoration of Displaced Persons, grievance
redress mechanisms and land acquisition for a site specific civil works under the
Project, in accordance with the provisions of the Resettlement Policy Framework,
as the same may be modified from time to time with the prior written agreement
of the Bank, and such term includes any annexes or schedules to such plans.
16. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" means the framework, adopted by the
Borrower's Prime Minister pursuant to Letter Number 490/TTg-QHQT dated
March 24, 2016, agreed with the Bank and setting out the principles, covering
those related to compensation payment and support, including also mitigation,
enhancement, monitoring, institutional measures, and capacity building through
training, to carry out compensation payment, support, resettlement, and livelihoods
restoration of any Displaced Persons, and guidelines and procedures for the
preparation of Resettlement Action Plan(s) that are required under the Project, as
the same may be modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of
the Bank, and such term includes any annexes or schedules to such framework.
17. 
"Safeguards Instruments" means, collectively, the Environmental and Social
Impact Assessment, the Environmental and Social Management Plan(s), the Social
Assessment Report, the Dam Safety Instruments, the Ethnic Minorities
Development Plan(s), the Ethnic Minorities Policy Framework, the Resettlement
Policy Framework, and the Resettlement Plan(s).
-22-
18. 
"Social Assessment Report" means the Borrower's social assessment report dated
February 18, 2016 and disclosed in the World Bank Infoshop on March 8, 2016.
19. 
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the
proceeds of the Loan available to Vinh Phuc PPC.
20. 
"Training and Workshops" means the reasonable costs of expenditure incurred by
the Borrower, based on annual work plans and terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank, in facilitating and conducting domestic and overseas training and workshop
activities of the Project, including costs of training or workshop materials;
honoraria; interpretation and translation; equipment and venue rental; lunches; and
per diem, accommodation, and transportation for those attending the training or
workshop; but excluding salary and salary supplements of Borrower's civil
servants ("c6ng chfic" and "vi6n chfc") and staff of the implementing agencies.
21. 
"Vinh Phuc Project Management Office" or "VPMO" means the office referred to
in Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, established by Vinh Phuc PPC
pursuant to Decision Number 1112/QD-CT dated March 29, 2016 as amended
and/or supplemented from time to time, or any successor thereto.
22. 
"Vinh Phuc Provincial People's Committee" or "Vinh Phuc PPC" means the local
government of Vinh Phuc Province, or any successor thereto.
Section H. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1 .
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge").
The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the
Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the
-23-
Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be
payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
