OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8695-RO
Loan Agreement
(Justice Services Improvement Project)
between
ROMANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated as of the Signature Date, entered into between ROMANIA ("Borrower")
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank").
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of sixty million Euro (C60,000,000), as such amount may
be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the
provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project
described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than sixty
days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e)
of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year.
-2-
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest
rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the
Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project through MOJ in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project
is carried out through MOJ in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following: namely, that the
Borrower, through MOJ, has adopted the Project Operations Manual in a manner and with
contents acceptable to the Borrower and to the Bank.
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred eighty (180) days after the Signature
Date.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Public Finance.
-3-
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Public Finance
17 Apolodor Street
Bucharest
Romania
Telex: 
Facsimile:
11239 
40213126792
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
쵤騙
용 겹
蓴弓
옙 별
;,; ，灌。 ,,,:[,
；驪[胞鷺［
칡O 晝
1;. 】칡
礪
n 
달 ‘
O 
녹
닉（
-5-
SCHEDULE1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve the efficiency and accessibility of targeted justice
institutions.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. Improving Operations of Courts and Institutions under MOJ Authority.
(a) 
Carrying out information and communication technology investments in the Borrower's
territory to enhance core functions of courts through, inter alia: (i) the improvement of
LAN infrastructure; (ii) the provision of hardware and software to enable the secure and
reliable operation of ECRIS and the expansion of e-filing; and (iii) the provision of
information and communication technology training to court network users.
(b) 
Improving the Borrower's justice system's ability to deliver services, especially in its poor
and underserved regions through: (i) building and rehabilitating the courthouses set forth
in the Project Operations Manual; (ii) finalizing civil works at the Sibiu tribunal, and at the
Prahova Tribunal and Palace of Justice; (iii) finalizing the development of main design
standards for courthouses in the Borrower's territory; and (iv) carrying out preparatory
activities and studies for the implementation of activities of the Action Plan that are
acceptable to the Bank, and which are not funded or are insufficiently funded from any
other financing source.
(c) 
Increasing community awareness of justice services through, inter alia: (i) the carrying out
of information campaigns, the development of guides, tools to enable access to court
services and educational events to improve citizen understanding, in particular vulnerable
group citizen understanding, of their rights and obligations under the law and reduce
barriers to access to justice; (ii) the carrying out of open days, community roundtables and
workshops in select court sites and on topics relevant to local communities; and (iii) the
provision of support to the MOJ's probation directorate through: the development of a
strategy for the rehabilitation of offenders, the appraisal of the status of detainees and the
improvement of services to crime victims
Part 2. Enhancing the National Trade Registry Office's Performance.
(a) 
Carrying out information and communication technology investments in the Borrower's
territory to enhance the performance of the NTRO's central and decentralized locations
through, inter alia: (i) the replacement of standard hardware and software; (ii) the design,
development and implementation of an electronic archiving system; and (iii) the provision
of technical assistance to prepare upgrades required for the insolvency bulletins, and for
NTRO electronic bulletin to comply with European Union regulations.
(b) 
Carrying out a detailed business architecture assessment to enable NTRO planning of
future investments.
-6-
(c) 
Carrying out information campaigns and outreach activities to increase end-user awareness
of NTRO services, with a special focus on micro and small businesses and civil society
organizations, covering topics such as, inter alia, insolvency, business start-up, e-services
and interconnectivity of trade and business registers within the European Union.
Part 3. Enhancing Prosecution Service Performance.
(a) 
Carrying out information and communication technology investments in the Borrower's
territory to enhance core functions of its prosecution services through, inter alia: (i) the
provision of hardware and software to enable the secure and reliable operation of ECRIS;
(ii) the LAN reconfiguration and cabling of the Bucharest Tribunal's Prosecutor Office;
and (iii) the acquisition of hardware for the General Prosecutor's Office's main data center
and secondary data center.
(b) 
Acquiring and installing an integrated security system, including security equipment, video
surveillance and access cards, at the General Prosecutor's Office.
(c) 
Increasing community awareness of prosecution services through, inter alia: (i) the
carrying out of information campaigns to improve legal literacy among vulnerable groups,
including groups at risk of entering the criminal justice system and victims of crime; and
(ii) the provision of training to prosecutors and relevant PM staff to increase their capacity
to use local feedback and respond to the needs of vulnerable groups, including Roma and
address stereotyping and discrimination.
Part 4. Project Management.
(a) 
Supporting the DIEFP in Project management and implementation, including fiduciary
tasks, monitoring and evaluation, and reporting; all through: (i) the provision of goods,
non-consulting services, consulting services and training, (ii) the carrying out of audits,
and (iii) the financing of Incremental Operating Costs.
(b) 
Carrying out and disseminating the results of surveys and studies on the experiences and
perceptions of institutional users, end users and potential users of justice services.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall vest the overall responsibility for the implementation of the Project in
MOJ, and to this end, through MOJ, shall:
(i) 
operate and maintain DIEFP within MOJ until the completion of the Project;
(ii) 
ensure that DIEFP functions at all times in a manner and with adequate staffing
and budgetary resources, all acceptable to the Bank; and
(iii) 
for purposes of carrying out Parts 2 and 3 of the Project: (A) ensure throughout
Project implementation the technical coordination with the NTRO and the PM,
respectively; and (B) unless otherwise agreed with the Bank, maintain the
provisions of Government Decision No. 652 dated May 27, 2009, as amended to
the Signature Date, that establish DIEFP, and that regulate the coordination
between MOJ and NTRO, and between MOJ and the PM.
B. 
Project Operations Manual
1 
The Borrower, through MOJ, shall adopt and carry out the Project in accordance with a
manual (the Project Operations Manual) acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, inter
alia: (i) the detailed description of Project implementation activities and the detailed
institutional arrangements of the Project; (ii) the Project administrative, accounting,
auditing, reporting, financial (including cash flow aspects in relation thereto), procurement
and disbursement procedures; (iii) the monitoring indicators for the Project; and (iv) the
ESMF and the EMPs.
2. 
Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower,
through MOJ, shall not abrogate, amend, suspend, waive or otherwise fail to enforce the
Operational Manual or any provision thereof.
3. 
In the event that any provision of the Operational Manual shall conflict with this
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower, through MOJ, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with
the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D. 
Safeguards
1 
The Borrower shall, through MOJ, implement the Project (except for Part l(b)(ii)) in
accordance with the ESMF.
-8-
2. 
The Borrower, through MOJ, shall ensure that: (i) the terms of reference for any
consultancy required under Part 1(b) of the Project shall be satisfactory to the Bank
following its review thereof; and (ii) to that end, such terms of reference shall duly
incorporate the requirements of the Bank' Safeguards Policies then in force, as applied to
the advice conveyed through such technical assistance, including the public disclosure and
consultation of the resulting environmental and social impact assessments in accordance
with the Bank's Safeguard Policies.
3. 
The Borrower, through MOJ, shall, prior to carrying out works under the Project:
(i) 
carry out site-specific environmental impact assessments, under terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank, for the relevant works;
(ii) 
prepare, consult and disclose respective site-specific EMPs in a manner acceptable
to the Bank and as set forth in the ESMF;
(iii) 
before issuing bidding documents for any works contract, prepare and submit to
the Bank for its approval: the proposed design and final location for the works and
the relevant EMPs in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and
(iv) 
ensure that the draft contract for such works include the provisions of the relevant
EMPs.
4. 
The Borrower, through MOJ, shall carry out Project works in accordance with the relevant
EMPs.
5. 
The Borrower, through MOJ, shall ensure that no Resettlement shall be carried out as a
consequence of Project implementation.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower, through MOJ, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators set acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report
shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later
than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower, through MOJ, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower, through MOJ, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five
(45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the
Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
-9-
3. 
The Borrower, through MOJ, shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance
with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. 
Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six
months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
Procurement Regulations
All goods, works, non-consulting services and consulting services required for the Project
(except for Parts I (b)(ii) and 1 (b)(iii) of the Project) and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to
in the Procurement Regulations and the provisions of the Procurement Plan.
B 
Procurement Guidelines and Consultant Guidelines
General
1. 
Works. All works required under Part 1 (b)(ii) of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall have been procured in accordance with the requirements set
forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section B.
2. 
Consultants' Services. 
All consultants' services required under Part l(b)(iii) of the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall have been procured in
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the
Consultant Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to the
corresponding method described in Section II of the Procurement Guidelines or Sections
II, and IV of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
Particular Method of Procurement of Works
4. 
International Competitive Bidding. Works shall have been procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
5. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Consultants' services shall have been procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
6. 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
-10-
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank Disbursement
Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as
made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures
in each Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in EUR) 
financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, consultants' 
60,000,000 
100%
services, non-consulting services,
and consulting services (including
audits), Training and Incremental
Operating Costs for the Project
TOTAL AMOUNT 
60,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-
end Fee; or
(b) 
for payments made prior to the Signature Date.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2023.
-11-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a)
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment
Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary,
to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each January 15 and July 15
Beginning July 15, 2023 
12.5%
through January 15, 2027
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as
of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding
on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall
be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
-12-
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating
to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-13-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Action Plan" means the Borrower's Action Plan for the Implementation of the Strategy
for the Development of the Judicial System (2015-2020), approved through the Borrower's
Government Decision No.282/2016, as published in the Official Gazette No. 311, on April,
22, 2016.
2. 
"Bank's Safeguard Policies" means the Bank's operational safeguard policies and
procedures, set forth in the Bank's Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04, 4.09,
4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37, 7.50 and 7.60, or such policies and procedures then in force.
3. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated
October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
4. 
"Bucharest Tribunal's Prosecutor's Office" means the Bucharest Tribunal Prosecutor's
Office established pursuant to the Borrowers' Law No. 304, dated July 28, 2004, as
amended to the Signature Date.
5. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
6. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004, revised October 1, 2006 and May 1, 2010.
7. 
"DIEFP" means the Department for Implementation of Externally Financed Projects within
MOJ, established pursuant to Government Decision No. 652/2009, dated May 27, 2009, as
amended to the Signature Date.
8. 
"ECRIS" means Electronic Case Registration and Information System for the Judiciary,
the Borrower's re-engineered integrated case management system.
9. 
"EMP" means: (a) the Environmental Management Plan for the Rehabilitation and
Restoration of the Prahova Tribunal, dated September 26, 2016 and duly published on
October 3, 2016; (b) the Environmental Management Plan for Civil Works for the Prahova
Palace of Justice, dated September 26, 2016 and duly published on October 3, 2016; (c)
the Environmental Management Plan for the Rehabilitation, Arrangement and Extension
of Sibiu Tribunal's Headquarters, dated September 26, 2016 and duly published on October
3, 2016; and (d) any other site-specific plans derived from the ESMF that will be prepared
during the implementation of the Project and prior to the commencement of any civil works
under the Project, all in a manner acceptable to the Bank and collectively referred to as
"EMPs".
10. 
"ESMF" means the Borrower's Environmental and Social Management framework dated
September 26, 2016, duly published on October 3, 2016, acceptable to the Bank, which
contains, inter alia, the guidelines for the carrying out of environmental and social
assessments and for the preparation and implementation of site-specific environmental
management plans and social responsibility plans, as well as the environmental protection
-14-
measures in respect of the Project, including for chance finding of cultural property and
potential direct and indirect environmental impacts from the carrying out of the Project,
recommendation of mitigation measures for each negative impact identified, as well as
measures for enhancing each identified positive impact, as said framework may be
amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank.
11. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
12. 
"General Prosecutor's Office" means the General Prosecutor's Office attached to the High
Court of Cassation and Justice, established pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 304, dated
July 28, 2004, as amended to the Signature Date.
13. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the incremental expenses incurred by DIEFP on
account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, such as for: office space
rental, utilities and supplies, bank charges, communications, building and equipment
maintenance, advertising expenses, translation, fuel, per diem, accommodation, transport
expenditures, and supervision.
14. 
"LAN" means local area network.
15. 
"MOJ" means the Borrower's Ministry of Justice.
16. 
"NTRO" means the Borrower's National Trade Registry Office created pursuant to the
Borrower's Law No. 29/1990, dated November 9, 1990, as amended to the Signature Date.
17. 
"PM" means the Borrower's Public Ministry created pursuant to the Borrowers' Law No.
304, dated July 28, 2004, as amended to the Signature Date.
18. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits" dated May 2004, revised October 1, 2006 and May 1, 2010.
19. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
September 29, 2016 and provided for under Section IV of the Procurement Regulations, as
the same may be updated from time to time in agreement with the Bank.
20. 
"Procurement Regulations" means the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for
Borrowers under Investment Project Financing", dated July 1, 2016.
21. 
"Project Operations Manual" means the manual referred to in Section I.B. 1 of Schedule 2
to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time in a manner and with
contents acceptable to the Bank.
22. 
"Resettlement" means the impact of an involuntary taking of land under the Project, which
taking causes affected persons to have their: (a) standard of living adversely affected; or
(b) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and grazing
land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or
permanently; or (c) access to productive assets adversely affected, temporarily or
-15-
permanently; or (d) business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely
affected, temporarily or permanently.
23. 
"Signature Date" means the latest of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed the Loan Agreement.
24. 
"Training" means expenditures (other than those for consultants' services) incurred for
training and training-related activities under the Project, including seminars, workshops,
study tours, conferences, courses, travel and subsistence allowances for training
participants, rental of training facilities, preparation and reproduction of training materials
and other activities incidental to the preparation and implementation of training activities.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1 .
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually
in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 and a new paragraph 88 with
the following definitions of "Commitment Charge" and "Signature Date", respectively, and
renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
"88. 
"Signature Date" means the latest of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed the Loan Agreement."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01
(a).
-16-
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition
of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and
Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
8. 
Any reference to "the date of the Loan Agreement" shall be modified with the term
"Signature Date".
