OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8711-ID
Loan Agreement
Dam Operational Improvement and Safety Project (DOISP) Phase II
(Additional Financing for Dam Operational Improvement and Safety Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
m 
9 
,2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
2 of 26 
LN 8711-ID
LOAN NUMBER 8711-ID
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
3Y 
S 
, 2017, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
("Bank") for the purpose of: (i) providing additional financing for activities related to the Original
Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement); and (ii) amending the Project Development
Objective of the Original Project (as reflected in Section V of Schedule 2 to this Agreement).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the
Project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project"), has requested the Bank to extend a loan
to assist in the financing of the Project; and
(B) 
the 
Borrower 
has 
also 
requested 
Asian 
Infrastructure 
Investment 
Bank
("Co-financier"), to provide additional assistance towards the financing of the Project, and the Co-
financier intends to make available to the Borrower a loan for such purpose in an amount of one
hundred twenty five million United States Dollars (USD 125,000,000), ("Co-financing"), pursuant to
the agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the Co-financier ("Co-financing
Agreement");
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an integral
part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have the
meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred twenty five million United States Dollars (USD
125,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to
assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than sixty
days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
3 of 26 
LN 8711-ID
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon a Conversion
of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower
during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the
relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if
any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be
calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the terms
of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of the Loan
Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis
applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all or any portion
of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate
based on a Reference Rate and the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed
Reference Rate and the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted by
the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General Conditions, and
shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General
Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
2.09. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit (as said
terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of this Section), the Borrower
shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of one half of one percent (0.5%) per
annum of the Allocated Excess Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i)
of this Section) for each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if
any) shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during which the
Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit, the product of: (A) the
total amount of said excess; and (B) the ratio of all (or, if the Bank so
determines, a portion) of the Loan to the aggregate amount of all (or the
equivalent portions) of the loans made by the Bank to the Borrower and to other
4 of 26 
LN 8711-ID
borrowers guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an exposure
surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined from time to time
by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the Bank's financial
exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded, would subject the Loan to the
Exposure Surcharge, as determined from time to time by the Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total financial exposure
to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as the
Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project is
carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that the Co-
financing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all conditions precedent to its
effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals under it (other than the
effectiveness of this Agreement) have been fulfilled.
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Directorate General of Budget Financing and Risk Management
Ministry of Finance
Gedung Frans Seda
Jalan Dr. Wahidin Raya No. 1
Jakarta 10710
Indonesia
Facsimile: +62-21-381-2859
5 of 26 
LN 8711-ID
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Facsimile: 1-202-477-6391
AGREED at Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
?OAT 
fA:f 
NtAM
Title: 
Or1LC-TOl- 
6WN-EAL7 OF 
UDGET
F1M4LAAj_Aj 
q 
W' 
Ar- MA/A - kAEAI-T
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
hrized Representative
Name:
Title: 
a;>._O_kJA
6 of 26 
LN 8711-ID
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to increase the safety and functionality of dams in selected
locations and strengthen the operation and management capacity for dam safety.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. Dam Operational Improvement and Safety Works and Studies
Restoring dam performance and safety through carrying out:
(a) 
specialized studies, including hydrological assessments to review flood flow data,
estimate flood discharge frequency and review spillway capacity and downstream
flooding risks;
(b) 
Surveys, Investigations and Designs (SIDs), supervision and quality control of
rehabilitation works Sub-projects;
(c) 
rehabilitation and safety remedial works on existing dams Sub-projects and their
associated structures, including civil and hydro-mechanical works;
(d) 
Sub-projects for the installation, rehabilitation or upgrading of Basic Dam Safety
Facilities (BDSF) to improve safety monitoring, flood forecasting and preparedness
systems; and
(e) 
installation, rehabilitation or upgrading of instrumentation for operational hydro-
meteorological monitoring.
Part 2. Operation and Maintenance Improvement and Capacity Building
Carrying out a program of activities designed to improve dam safety and dam utilization including:
(a) 
conducting strategic studies, including those for establishing asset management
systems and needs based budgeting for operation and maintenance and piloting of
performance-based contracts;
(b) 
preparing Operation and Maintenance Plans;
(c) 
preparing Instrumentation Plans and setting the service standards;
(d) 
preparing Emergency Preparedness Plans, including dam break analyses, downstream
flood mapping and benchmarking;
7 of 26 
LN 8711-ID
(e) 
conducting Community Participation Programs in reservoir maintenance, income-
generating activities related to reservoir maintenance and related skills training with
local communities; and
(f) 
human resource development and capacity building of dam safety institutions.
Part 3. Reservoir Sedimentation Mitigation
Carrying out a comprehensive reservoir sedimentation management program, such a program to
include:
(a) 
strategic studies and surveys related to reservoir sedimentation;
(b) 
corrective measures, such as dredging, flushing as well as design and construction of
diversion works Sub-projects; and
(c) 
preventative measures, such as community watershed and land care management
activities, including the piloting of incentive based mechanisms.
Part 4. Dam Safety Institutional Improvement
Strengthening the capacity of the dam safety institutions to manage MPWH's dams portfolio and
regulate large dams, as well as improve the sustainability of the rehabilitation works and reservoir life
by supporting:
(a) 
institutional assessments, benchmarking and enhanced coordination among line agencies;
(b) 
the development of dam safety regulations, instruments, standards and guidelines,
including a national dam policy addressing among others dam registration, dam inspection,
safety compliance and associated penalties;
(c) 
the setting up of a national dam safety management system;
(d) 
enhancing dam safety through improved surveillance and protection measures; and
(e) 
supporting development of a dam technology center.
Part 5. Project Management
Supporting the management of the Project through technical assistance to, inter alia, river basin
organizations, the CPMU, the CPIU and each PIU, the National Steering Committee for Water
Resources including providing the Project Management Consultants, Environment and Social Service
Providers and the International Dam Safety Panel of Experts, National Dam Safety Review Panel and
Technical Assistance Consultants, and through supporting the operations of the CPMU, CPIU, Dam
Safety Unit, and PIUs
8 of 26 
LN 8711-ID
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
maintain until completion of the Project the National Steering Committee for Water
Resources which shall be responsible for synchronization of the Project within the
context of the national water resources priorities, as well as conducting independent
monitoring and evaluation of the Project and ensuring that Annual Work Plans conform
with the Project Management Manual;
(b) 
cause DGWR to be the implementing agency for the Project and maintain until
completion of the Project the CPMU, in the Directorate of Operation and Maintenance
of DGWR, which shall be responsible for overall management and coordination of the
Project;
(c) 
maintain until completion of the Project the CPIU, in the Directorate of Operation and
Maintenance of DGWR, which shall be responsible for coordinating day-to-day
implementation activities at the central level;
(d) 
(i) maintain, until completion of the Project, each of the existing sixteen PIUs in those
BBWS/BWS Offices in Project Provinces in which activities will be undertaken in the
first year of Project implementation; and (ii) establish, by no later than June 31, 2018
and thereafter maintain, until completion of the Project, PIUs in the remaining
BBWS/BWS Offices in the Project Provinces; in each case with terms of reference and
staffing acceptable to the Bank, to be responsible for day-to-day Project activities in
such BBWS/BWS Offices, in accordance with the Project Management Manual;
(e) 
maintain until completion of the Project, the PIU in each of RCWR and DSU, in each
case with terms of reference and staffing acceptable to the Bank, to be responsible for
day-to-day Project activities in RCWR and DSU, respectively, in accordance with the
Project Management Manual; and
(f) 
for community participation activities under Part 2(f)and Part 3(c) of the Project, ensure
that such activities will be implemented by the PIU in each of the selected BBWS/BWS
Offices, in accordance with the Project Management Manual.
2. 
The Borrower shall provide, or cause to be provided, as the case may be, each of the CPMU,
the CPIU and each PIU at all times with adequate funds (allocated in the DIPA budget) and
other resources, and with qualified and experienced personnel in adequate numbers, as shall be
necessary to accomplish its terms of reference and objectives.
9 of 26 
LN 8711-ID
3. 
The Borrower shall engage and retain the Project Management Consultants and the Technical
Assistance Consultants to assist in management and implementation of the Project under Part
5 of the Project, in accordance with the provisions of Section III of this Schedule 2.
B. 
Implementation Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
adopt, and thereafter carry out the Project in accordance with the Project Management
Manual acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank, which manual shall provide details
of:
(i) 
the institutional implementation arrangements;
(ii) 
the list of proposed dams, the eligibility requirements, and the preparation,
appraisal, selection and implementation procedures, for Sub-Projects which
requirements and procedures shall include: (A) the list of Sub-project sites
selected for remedial, rehabilitation or reconstruction works activities under the
Project, as the same may be updated from time to time with the agreement of
the Bank; (B) arrangements for, and the carrying out of, timely public and
stakeholder consultations; (C) technical standards, design criteria and DSC
safety inspection requirements; and (D) the mitigation and dam safety
measures;
(iii) 
the requirements for preparing and processing Annual Work Plans;
(iv) 
arrangements for Community Participation Programs, including identification
of eligible activities (including skills training, dialogue facilitation, workshops
and seminars, and incentive programs) and the criteria for selection of
Community Recipients;
(v) 
procurement procedures as set forth in Section III of this Schedule and standard
procurement documentation;
(vi) 
reporting requirements, financial management procedures and audit procedures
as set forth in Section II.B of this Schedule;
(vii) 
Project performance indicators;
(viii) 
arrangements 
and 
procedures 
for 
environment 
and 
social 
safeguard
management; and
(ix) 
the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and the Governance and Accountability
Strategy.
(b) 
undertake to not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provisions of the
Project Management Manual without the prior agreement of the Borrower and the Bank
and undertake to update the Project Management Manual, as necessary with the prior
discussion and agreement of the Borrower and the Bank; and
10 of 26 
LN 8711-ID
(c) 
ensure that the relevant portions of the Project Management Manual are made
available, at all times until completion of the Project, to each person or entity which
receives, is responsible for deposit or transfer of, or takes or influences decisions
regarding the use of proceeds of the Loan, including the CPMU, the CPIU, all PIUs,
Community Recipients and all consultants and contractors.
2. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
in carrying out Part I of the Project, ensure that Sub-projects are selected only from
among the dams listed in the Project Management Manual as dam sites meeting the
construction eligibility criteria for Sub-projects;
(b) 
(i) 
cause each PIU to prepare and furnish to the CPMU by not later than August 1
in each year of Project implementation, commencing on August 1, 2017, for its
review a draft annual work plan meeting the requirements set out in the Project
Management Manual, which shall include a detailed description of the Sub-
projects proposed to be undertaken in the following Fiscal Year and related
budget; and
(ii) 
by no later than October I of each year, commencing on October 1, 2017,
confirm to each PIU its respective Annual Work Plan, based on the approved
Annual Work Program;
(c) 
cause the CPMU to consolidate and furnish to the Bank, not later than September 1 in
each year of Project implementation, commencing on September 1, 2017, for the
Banks' review and no-objection, the proposed annual work program for the Project
consisting of detailed work plans and budget for that Fiscal Year for the CPMU based
on the annual work plans prepared by all PIUs for the following year and including all
relevant information regarding proposed activities, proposed budget (including
Borrower's Counterpart Funds), social and environmental safeguard (including
compliance with the Safeguard Instruments), procurement plans and financial
management information;
(d) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower on the
proposed annual work program and, thereafter, promptly take all actions necessary to
implement the annual work program as approved by the Bank (Annual Work Program),
taking into account the views of the Bank on the matter; and
(e) 
thereafter cause each Annual Work Program and each Annual Work Plan to be carried
out in accordance with their provisions.
3. 
The Borrower shall: (a) ensure that each PIU shall prepare monitoring reports on each Sub-
project under its responsibility on a quarterly basis, which reports shall be consolidated on a
semi-annual basis by the CPMU; and (b) commencing on October 1, 2017, prepare a report
reviewing performance of the Annual Work Program of the year to date.
11 of 26 
LN 8711-ID
4. 
The Borrower shall no later than March 31 in each year of Project implementation,
commencing on March 31, 2017, send to the Bank a report on O&M budget containing the
information required as set out in the Project Management Manual, including: (a) the O&M
budget allocation in the immediately preceding Fiscal Year; and (b) the percentage thereof that
was spent in accordance with the Project Management Manual.
5. 
The Borrower shall adopt, and thereafter implement, the O&M plans, standard operation
procedures and manuals prepared under Part 2 of the Project on a schedule acceptable to the
Borrower and the Bank.
6. 
The Borrower shall ensure that each Community Participation Program shall be:
(a) 
implemented by the PIU in each of the BBWS/BWS Offices in the designated reservoir
areas, in each case in accordance with the Project Management Manual;
(b) 
for goods, works, services, training and/or workshops for Community Recipients that
meet the eligibility criteria set out in the Project Management Manual; and
(c) 
documented in an agreement, in form and substance as set out in the Project
Management Manual, 
with the Community Recipient for such Community
Participation Program prior to commencement of its Community Participation
Program, which agreement shall include the following principles: (i) the obligation of
the Community Recipient to carry out its Community Participation Program in
accordance with the Project Management Manual, including in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of loan proceeds
other than the Borrower; (ii) the right of the Borrower to suspend or terminate the rights
of each beneficiary to use the proceeds of the Loan upon such beneficiary's failure to
perform its obligations under such agreement; and (iii) the right of the Borrower and
the Bank to inspect the Community Participation Program, its operation and any
relevant records and documents and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such
information as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably request relating to the
foregoing.
7. 
The Borrower shall periodically share information with the Bank on the progress in
development and adoption or issuance of policies, laws, regulations or decrees on dam safety
in its territory.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
12 of 26 
LN 8711-ID
D. 
Safeguards
1. 
With respect to all Sub-projects for which works are financed under the Project, the Borrower
shall:
(a) 
ensure that no Sub-project shall: (i) involve the construction of new dams or
decommissioning of dams; or (ii) involve a sensitive site such as a national park or
wildlife reserve;
(b) 
apply the provisions of the ESMF in Sub-project implementation, including, where
applicable in accordance with the ESMF: (i) screening of each Sub-project to ensure
that potential environmental and social impacts for each Sub-project are identified prior
to implementation; (ii) development of an environmental management plan (EMP) to
mitigate potential adverse environmental impacts associated with these works fully
consistent with the ESMF prior to commencement of Sub-project implementation; (iii)
development of, as applicable, land acquisition and resettlement action plan or
indigenous peoples plan to mitigate potential adverse social impacts associated with
these works fully consistent with the ESMF (including IPPF, LARPF) prior to
commencement of Sub-project implementation; (iv) application of the DSC Guidelines
in the operation of each dam and in all Project activities; and (v) application of
community participation procedures for catchment area management; and
(c) 
ensure that all land acquisition required for the purposes of carrying out works under
the Project are financed exclusively out of its own resources, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the resources needed for these purposes, including: (i) all land
acquisition required for the purposes of carrying out the Project; (ii) resettlement and
rehabilitation payments to Project Affected Persons; and (iii) all other costs associated
with environmental and/or social mitigation measures set forth in the Safeguard
Instruments.
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that all technical assistance activities under the Project are
undertaken in accordance with the guidelines, requirements and procedures set forth in the
Safeguards Instruments and the relevant operational policies of the Bank.
3. 
For the purpose of overseeing implementation of dam safety measures, the Borrower shall:
(a) 
if requested by the Bank, or upon recommendation by the DSC, establish and thereafter
retain for the period as agreed with the Bank, an International Dam Safety Panel of
Experts with composition, qualifications and terms of reference acceptable to the
Borrower and the Bank;
(b) 
by December 31, 2017, establish and thereafter retain throughout the Project, a
National Dam Safety Review Panel with composition, qualifications and terms of
reference acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank;
(c) 
inform the Bank of the dates of the visits of the Dam Safety Panels to enable the Bank
to send an observer to such Dam Safety Panels de-briefings;
13 of 26 
LN 8711-ID
(d) 
after the completion of each of the works, ensure periodic safety inspections of the
dams subject to such works in accordance with the Project Management Manual and
the DSC Guidelines;
(e) 
ensure that the Dam Safety Panels will review studies and design pertaining to large
and/or complex dams, designated in accordance with the foregoing sub-paragraph (a)
above; and
(f) 
provide the Bank with a copy of each report prepared by Dam Safety Panels and
incorporate the recommendations of the Dam Safety Panels in all Project activities and
all documents prepared under the Project.
4. 
Notwithstanding the implementation of any Sub-project, the Borrower shall retain all
responsibility for legacy issues associated with each dam.
5. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
not amend, revise or waive, nor allow to be amended, revised or waived, the provisions
of the Safeguard Instruments or any provision of any one thereof, without the prior
written agreement of the Bank;
(b) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate, in
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, the implementation of the
Safeguard Instruments; and
(c) 
ensure that semi-annual environmental monitoring reports on each Sub-project EMP
shall be submitted on a timely basis to the local environmental agency (Badan
Lingkungan Hidup Daerah) by the PIU responsible for each such Sub-project.
6. 
In case of any inconsistency between the provisions of any of the Safeguard Instruments and
this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
Section II. 
Prooect Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1 .
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on
the basis of the indicators acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the Project Management
Manual. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by
such report.
14 of 26 
LN 8711-ID
2. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall prepare, under terms of reference agreed between the Borrower
and the Bank and furnish to the Bank by June 30, 2020, or such later date as the Bank
may otherwise agree, a mid-term review report of the progress made in carrying out
the Project during the period preceding the date of such report, and setting out the
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date. The
Borrower shall provide the Bank with the opportunity to participate in the mid-term
review.
(b) 
The Borrower shall review with the Bank the report referred to in paragraph 2(a) of
this Section II.A, within thirty (30) days of the submission by the Borrower of such
report, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and
recommendations of such report. The Borrower shall make the mid-term review report
publicly available.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1 .
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare and
furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter,
interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover
the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each
such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such
period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-consulting services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth
or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and with the provisions of this
Section.
15 of 26 
LN 8711-ID
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to the
corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the Procurement Guidelines, or
Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in the
Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set
forth in the Annex 2 to this Schedule; (b) Shopping; (c) Force Account; (d) Direct Contracting;
and (e) Community Participation procedures which have been found acceptable to the Bank
and set forth in the Project Management Manual.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality and
Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following methods, other
than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of consultants' services
for those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection;
(b) Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications; (c) Single-source Selection of consulting
firms; (d) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the
Selection of Individual Consultants; and (e) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's Prior
Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of
Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines
for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable
to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth
in the table in paragraph 2 below.
16 of 26 
LN 8711-ID
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each
Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) 
financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) 
Goods, 
works, 
non-consulting 
125,000,000 
100% of Bank Share of
services, 
Training 
and 
Workshops, 
Total Lending
Incremental 
Operating 
Costs 
and
consultants' services for the Project
TOTAL AMOUNT 
125,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end
Fee; or
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to
an aggregate amount not to exceed USD 25,000,000 may be may be made for payments
for Eligible Expenditures made not more than twelve (12) months prior to the date of
this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2023.
17 of 26 
LN 8711-ID
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
National Competitive Bidding: Modifications to Procedures
The procedures applicable to the procurement of goods, works, and non-consulting services under
contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding shall be those of the Pelelangan Umum
(Public Tendering) and Pemilihan Langsung /Pelelangan Sederhana (Simplified Tendering) methods
as set forth in the Borrower's Presidential Regulation No. 54/20 10 and its subsequent amendments as
of January 16, 2015, with the modifications set out below in order to ensure economy, efficiency,
transparency, and broad consistency with the provisions of Section I of the Procurement Guidelines,
pursuant to paragraph 3.3 of said Guidelines. The Pemilihan Langsung/Pelelangan Sederhana method
shall apply to such procurement up to the financial thresholds specified in said Regulation. In the event
of a conflict between the Borrower's procedures and these modifications, the latter shall govern.
1. Procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard bidding documents acceptable to the Borrower
and the Bank. The provisions of Section 1.16 (Fraud and Corruption) of the Procurement
Guidelines shall apply, and each bidding document and contract financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall include provisions on matters pertaining to fraud and corruption as defined in
paragraph 1.16(a) of said Guidelines and the contract provisions set out in paragraph 1.16(e) of
said Guidelines.
2. 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding. If a registration process is required, a foreign
firm determined to be the lowest evaluated responsive bidder shall be given reasonable time for
registration. Foreign bidders shall not be required to form a joint venture or sub-contract part of
the supply of goods, non-consulting services, and works as a condition for submitting bids or the
award of the contract. Bidding documents shall be made available to all international bidders.
3. No preference of any kind shall be given to any bidders.
4. Under the Pelelangan Umum method, bidders shall be allowed at least twenty-one (21) days from
the date of the invitation to bid or the date of availability of bidding documents, whichever is later,
to prepare and submit bids; this period shall be ten (10) days under the Pemilihan Langsung /
Pelelangan Sederhana method.
5. Bids invited under the Pelelangan Umum method shall be submitted in one (1) envelope and
evaluated using post-qualification.
6. No bidder shall be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with the owner's estimate and
budget ceiling without the Bank's prior written concurrence.
7. 
Bid security, if it is required by the bidding documents, at the bidder's option, shall be in the form
of a letter of credit or guarantee from a reputable bank or other reputable financial institution and
shall without exception follow the form provided for this purpose in the bidding documents.
8. All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Bank's prior written concurrence.
9. Government-owned enterprises in Indonesia shall be eligible to participate in provided that they
comply with paragraph 1.10(b) of the Procurement Guidelines.
18 of 26 
LN 8711-ID
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of
the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date ("Installment
Share"). Ifthe proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment
Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date,
such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in
paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
15 Mar 2025 
5.58 %
15 Sep 2025 
5.72%
15 Mar 2026 
5.86%
15 Sep 2026 
6.01 %
15 Mar 2027 
6.16%
15 Sep 2027 
6.31 %
15 Mar 2028 
6.47%
15 Sep 2028 
6.63%
15 Mar 2029 
6.80%
15 Sep 2029 
6.97%
15 Mar 2030 
7.14%
15 Sep 2030 
7.32%
15 Mar 2031 
7.50%
15 Sep 2031 
7.69%
15 Mar 2032 
7.84%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment
Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as of
such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on each
Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts determined
by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the
numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph
I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share") and
the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original Installment Shares for
Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, such amounts repayable to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
19 of 26 
LN 8711-ID
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on
the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be
repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal
Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any time
the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on or after
the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no
longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal Payment
Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying
such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i)
the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by
the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank
so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of
the Screen Rate.
5. 
Ifthe Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions
of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so
as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
20 of 26 
LN 8711-ID
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Annual Work Plan" means the annual plan and budget of a PIU, approved by the Bank,
pertaining to the scheduling and specification of the Sub-projects to be funded under the Project
in the area of responsibility of that PIU in the year covered by such plan referred to in paragraph
2(b) ii of Section 1.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and "Annual Work Plans" means more
than one Annual Work Plan.
2. 
"Annual Work Program" means the annual work plan and budget of the CPMU, including all
eligible activities to be funded under the Project and associated budget, prepared in accordance
with the Project Management Manual and the provisions of paragraph 2(d) of Section 1.B of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and "Annual Work Programs" means more than one Annual
Work Program.
3. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and
Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated October
15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
4. 
"Bank Share" means the percentage agreed from time to time between the Bank and Co-
financier, and reflected in the additional instructions specified by the Bank pursuant to Section
IV.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
5. 
"BAPPENAS" means the National Planning Agency of the Borrower, and any successor
thereto.
6. 
"BBWS/BWS Office" means the river basin management unit established and funded by the
national government and functional part of MPWH, and "BBWS/BWS Offices" means more
than one BBWS/BWS Office.
7. 
"BDSF" means basic dam safety facilities and includes: (a) instrumentation to record data on
the structural condition and operational safety of a dam structure; (b) high spillway discharge
warning equipment; (c) communications equipment; and (d) related items.
8. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
9. 
"CDMU" means the Central Dam Monitoring Unit within MPWH, responsible for monitoring
the safety of dams under the management responsibility of MPWH, and any successor thereto.
10. 
"Co-financier" means the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB), a multilateral financial
institution whose purpose is to foster sustainable economic development, create wealth and
improve infrastructure connectivity in Asia by investing in infrastructure and other productive
sectors.
I1. 
"Co-financing" means, for purposes of paragraph 16 of the Appendix to the General
Conditions, an amount of one hundred twenty five million United States Dollars to be provided
by the Co-financier to assist in financing the Project.
21 of 26 
LN 8711-ID
12. 
"Co-financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
the Co-financier providing for the Co-financing.
13. 
"Community Participation Program" means a program developed and implemented in
accordance with the Project Management Manual under Part 2(f) of the Project (for dam safety)
or under Part 3(c) of the Project (for reservoir sedimentation); and "Community Participation
Programs" means more than one Community Participation Program.
14. 
"Community Recipient" means a non-governmental organization eligible to implement a
Community Participation Program and selected to implement a Community Participation
Program in accordance with the Project Management Manual; and "Community Recipients"
means more than one Community Recipient.
15. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January
2011 (revised July 2014).
16. 
"Counterpart Funds" means a minimum amount of funds required for the Project, estimated at
USD 25 million equivalent, to be provided by the Borrower, through an allocation to the budget
under each Annual Work Program.
17. 
"CPIU" means the Central Project Implementation Unit, at the national level established by
Ministerial Decree No. 136/KPTS/M/2017, dated March 13, 2017, and maintained in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1(c) of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement
18. 
"CPMU" means the Central Project Management Unit at the national level established by
Ministerial Decree No. 136/KPTS/M/2017, dated March 13, 2017, and maintained in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1(b) of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement
19. 
"Dam Safety Panels" means the International Dam Safety Panel of Experts and National Dam
Safety Review Panel.
20. 
"DGWR" means the Directorate General of Water Resources within MPWH, responsible for
implementation of the Project, and any successor thereto.
21. 
"DIPA" means dqftar isian pelaksanaan anggaran, a budget activity list for a Fiscal Year.
22. 
"DSC" means the Dam Safety Commission, a national dam safety regulatory body established
by Ministerial Decree No. 60/KPTS/M/2003 of the Minister responsible for public works,
responsible for management oversight of dam safety assurance and certification of dams in
Indonesia, and any successor thereto.
23. 
"DSC Guidelines" means the Dam Safety Commission Guidelines issued by the DSC.
22 of 26 
LN 8711-ID
24. 
"DSU" means the Dam Safety Unit within the DSC, responsible for developing regulatory
criteria for dam safety, for dam safety inspections and for technical clearances for the
certification of dams, and any successor thereto.
25. 
"Emergency Preparedness Plan" means the Borrower's plan setting out measures, including
clear statements on the responsibility for operations decision making and related emergency
communications, maps outlining inundation levels for various emergency conditions, flood
warning system characteristics, and procedures for evaluating threatened areas and mobilizing
emergency forces and equipment, for when facility failure is considered imminent or when
expected operational flow release threatens downstream life, property, or economic operations
that depend on river flow levels relating to the Dam, as the same may be modified from time
to time in consultation with the Bank, and such term includes any schedules or annexes to such
Plan.
26. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the environmental
and social safeguards management framework dated January 10, 2017 and adopted by the
Borrower on January 10, 2017, giving details of a program of actions, measures and policies
designed to maximize the benefits accruing under the Project, avoid or mitigate any adverse
potential impacts arising thereunder, or, if such adverse impacts cannot be avoided altogether,
reduce such impacts to acceptable levels, as the same may be updated from time to time in
agreement with the Bank, such framework incorporating among others dam safety measures
and reporting requirements as well as pest management arrangements.
27. 
"Environmental Management Plan" or "EMP" means an environmental management plan,
acceptable to the Bank and consistent with the Environmental and Social Management
Framework adopted for the purposes of a Sub-project, and giving details of the agreed actions
and policies designed to maximize the benefits of the Sub-project, eliminate or offset any
potential adverse environmental impacts, or reduce such impacts to acceptable levels, along
with the procedural and institutional measures needed to implement such actions and policies.
28. 
"Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year starting January I and ending December 31.
29. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
30. 
"Governance and Accountability Strategy" means the strategy adopted by the Borrower and
included in the Project Management Manual, setting out the strategy and action plan to prevent
corruption in implementation of the Project.
31. 
"Incremental Operating Cost" means the reasonable costs incurred by the Borrower on account
of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including costs of office rental,
supplies and consumables, utilities, bank charges, communications, mass media and printing
services, interpretation and translation services, vehicle rental, operation, maintenance, and
insurance, building and equipment maintenance, local transportation, domestic travel, lodging,
and subsistence allowances, and salaries of contractual and temporary staff, but excluding
salaries and any salary supplements of members of the Borrower's civil service.
23 of 26 
LN 8711-ID
32. 
"Indigenous Peoples" means those social groups in the Borrower's territory that have a distinct,
vulnerable, social and cultural identity, and that possess the following characteristics in varying
degrees: (a) self-identification as members of a distinct indigenous cultural group and
recognition of this identity by others; (b) collective attachment to geographically distinct
habitats or ancestral territories in the Project area and to the natural resources in these habitats
and territories; (c) customary cultural, economic, social, or political institutions that are
separate from those of the dominant society and culture; and (d) an indigenous language.
33. 
"Indigenous Peoples Plan" means each plan for a Sub-project, meeting the requirements of the
Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework, that sets out the agreed measures to: (a) involve
Indigenous Peoples, through a process of free, prior and informed consultation, in the design
and implementation of each Sub-project in locations in which such people reside or make their
living; (b) ensure that Indigenous Peoples affected by the Sub-project receive culturally
appropriate social and economic benefits; and (c) when potential adverse effects on Indigenous
Peoples are identified, those adverse effects are avoided, minimized, mitigated, or compensated
for, in each case in a manner acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower.
34. 
"Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework" means the updated indigenous peoples planning
framework issued by the Borrower on January 10. 2017, giving details of a program of actions,
measures and policies designed to facilitate a process of free, prior and informed consultation
involving Indigenous Peoples in the design and implementation of every Sub-project, and to
ensure that such Indigenous Peoples derive benefits from the Sub-project which are socially,
economically and culturally appropriate, and gender and inter-generationally inclusive.
35. 
"Instrumentation Plan" means the plan setting out measures for the installation of instruments
to monitor and record the behavior of and the hydro-meteorological, structural, and seismic
factors relating to a dam, as the same may be modified from time to time in consultation with
Bank, and such term includes any schedules or annexes to such Plan.
36. 
"International Dam Safety Panel of Experts" means the panel established pursuant to paragraph
3(a) of Section I.D of Schedule 2 to this Agreement to review and advise on dam safety matters
under Sub-projects during Project implementation.
37. 
"Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan" or "LARAP" means a resettlement and
rehabilitation action plan for a Sub-project giving details of the agreed provisions for
compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement assistance to Project Affected Persons under the
Sub-project, along with the procedural and institutional measures needed to implement such
agreed provisions, acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower, prepared and implemented
pursuant to the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework.
38. 
"Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework" means the land acquisition and
resettlement policy framework adopted by the Borrower through MPWH on January 10, 2017
setting forth the measures and actions to be taken during the implementation of the Project for
the provision of compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement assistance to Project Affected
Persons, as such framework may be amended from time to time with the prior written
agreement of the Bank and the Borrower.
39. 
"Ministry of Public Works and Housing" or "MPWH" means the Borrower's ministry
responsible for public works or any successor thereto.
24 of 26 
LN 8711-ID
40. 
"National Dam Safety Review Panel" means a panel of experts with qualifications and terms
of reference acceptable to the Bank appointed by the Borrower to advise it on dam safety
matters under the Project, and referred to in paragraph 3(b) of Section I.D of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
41. 
"National Steering Committee for Water Resources" means the inter-agency committee,
established pursuant to Ministerial Decree No. 303/M.PPN/10/2002 of the Minister of
BAPPENAS, as the same may be revised from time to time, responsible for the operational
and programmatic coordination of activities undertaken by government at the national and
local levels affecting water resources infrastructure, and any successor thereto.
42. 
"O&M" means operations and maintenance
43. 
"Operation and Maintenance Plan" means the Borrower's plan setting out measures - including
organizational structure, staffing, technical expertise, and training required, equipment and
facilities needed, procedures, and funding arrangements, including long-term maintenance and
safety inspections - for the operation and maintenance of a dam, as the same may be modified
from time to time in consultation with the Bank, and such term includes any schedules or
annexes to such Plan.
44. 
"Original Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement for the Project between the Borrower
and the Bank, dated March 27, 2009, as amended to the date of this Agreement (Loan No 7669-
ID).
45. 
"Original Project" means the Project described in Schedule 1 to the Original Loan Agreement.
46. 
"PIU" means for each of the DSU, the RCWR, each BBWS/BWS, the project implementation
unit established by Decree No. 206/KPTS/D/2008, dated December 11, 2008, (or to be
established) and maintained in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 1(d) and 1(e) of
Section I.A. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, each responsible for carrying out those Project
implementation activities assigned to such departments in accordance with the Project
Management Manual; and "PIUs" means more than one PIU.
47. 
Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-
consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
48. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated January 24,
2017 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of
the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with
the provisions of said paragraphs.
25 of 26 
LN 8711-ID
49. 
"Project Affected Person " means a person who, on account of the execution of the Project, has
experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by: (a) the
involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or
access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such
person must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally
designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such
person, and "Project Affected Persons" means, collectively, all such Project Affected Persons.
50. 
"Project Management Consultants" means the consultants to be engaged by the Borrower to
assist with management of the Project in accordance with paragraph 3 of Section I.A of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
51. 
"Project Management Manual" means the manual updated and adopted by the Borrower on
January 24, 2017 and amended in accordance with and meeting the requirements of paragraph
I of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
52. 
"Project Province" means any one of the following Provinces: Aceh, Bali, Banten, Lampung,
West Java, DI Yogyakarta, Central Java, East Java, Maluku, West Nusa Tenggara, East Nusa
Tenggara, South Sulawesi, Riau Islands and East Kalimantan (as such list may otherwise be
revised in the Project Management Manual); and "Project Provinces" means more than one
Project Province.
53. 
"Province" means a province, an administrative division of the Borrower.
54. 
"Provincial Balai PSDA" means a provincial basin management unit, and "Provincial Balai
PSDAs" means more than one Provincial Balai PSDA.
55. 
"RCWR" means the Bandung Research Center for Water Resources, and any successor
thereto.
56. 
"Safeguards Instruments" means, collectively, the Environmental and Social Management
Framework/ESMF, the Environmental Management Plan(s)/EMP (s), LARPF, LARAP(s),
dam safety assessment report(s), IPPF and IPP(s).
57. 
"Sub-project" means a specific rehabilitation, repair, remedial works or similar activities
carried out or to be carried out under Parts 1(b), 1(c), 1(d) and 3(b) of the Project, and related
operation and maintenance improvement and capacity building activities, in accordance with
the Project Management Manual to implement one or more components of an Annual Work
Plan in a Project Province; and "Sub-projects" means more than one Sub-project.
58. 
"Technical Assistance Consultants" means the consultants to be engaged by the Borrower to
assist with implementation of the Project in accordance with paragraph 3 of Section I.A of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
59. 
"Total Lending" means the amount constituted by the Co-financing and the Loan.
60. 
"Training and Workshops" means Project-related training and workshops conducted in the
territory of the Borrower, including acquisition and publication of materials, rental of facilities,
course fees, and travel and subsistence of trainees.
26 of 26 
LN 8711-ID
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers are
modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan Agreement
to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan
Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on
each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs are
modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition of
"Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
