OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8733-UY
Loan Agreement
(Additional Financing for the Uruguay Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program)
between
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
,201
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
-Ju 
, 2 01 
between REPUBLICA ORIENTAL
DEL URUGUAY ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for purpose of providing additional financing for activities
related to the Original Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Borrower and
the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of seventy million Dollars ($70,000,000), as such amount
may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with
the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the
program described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Program").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited
by the Bank into an account specified by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than sixty
days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, however, that
the interest payable shall in no event be less than zero percent (0%) per annum; and
provided furthermore that, upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount
of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such
amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the
General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan
Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty
days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in
Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
-2-
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest
rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the
Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Program. To this end, the
Borrower, through MTOP, shall, and shall cause CVU to, carry out the activities under the
Program which fall within their administrative/legal responsibility, all in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Program is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consists of the following;
(a) 
that the CVU shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations under the
Subsidiary Agreement; and
(b) 
that the CVU shall have failed to comply with any of their obligations under the
Assignment Agreement, in such a manner so as to affect materially and adversely,
in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the CVU to carry out the Program
activities under its responsibility.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that any event
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 60 days
after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that the
Subsidiary Agreement has been amended in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
5.02. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas
Colonia No. 1089, Tercer Piso
Montevideo, Uruguay
Facsimile: 5982 1712 2688
e-mail: organismos.multilateralesa,mef.gub.uy
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at Montevideo, Republica Oriental del Uruguay, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
By 
___
AUthorized, epresentative
Name: 
DAN__1__0 
__A.C_7
Title: 
__________________
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
A horized Representative
Name:
Title:
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Program Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Program Fiduciary, Environmental and Social Systems
Without limitation on the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the Borrower
shall carry out the Program, or cause the Program to be carried out, in accordance with
financial management, procurement and environmental and social management systems
acceptable to the Bank ("Program Fiduciary, Environmental and Social Systems") which
are designed to ensure that:
1. 
the Loan proceeds are used for their intended purposes, with due attention to the principles
of economy, efficiency, effectiveness, transparency and accountability; and
2. 
the actual or potential adverse environmental and social impacts of the Program are
identified, avoided, minimized, or mitigated, as the case may be, all through an informed
decision-making process.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall carry out the Program, or cause the Program to be carried out, in
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Other Program Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
1 .
Program Institutions
(a) 
Without limitation on the generality of Part A of this Section 1, the Borrower shall
maintain or cause to be maintained during the implementation of the Program, the
offices, units and branches within MTOP (including, inter alia, DNV, DNTop and
DINAPLO), 
CVU, 
MEF, MVOTMA and the Borrower's Supreme Audit
Institution (Tribunal de Cuentas), each assigned with responsibilities for
implementing the Program, including, as applicable, technical, environmental and
social safeguards, fiduciary responsibilities, all with powers, functions, capacity,
staffing and resources satisfactory to the Bank to fulfill their respective functions
under the Program.
2. 
Subsidiary Agreement
(a) 
For the purposes of carrying out the Program, the Borrower, through MTOP, shall
amend the Subsidiary Agreement, under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank, which shall include, inter alia, CVU's obligation to carry out the Program
activities under its responsibility in accordance with: (i) technical, financial, and
administrative practices and the Program Fiduciary, Environmental and Social
Systems, all acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) the provisions of the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines.
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Description
The objectives of the Program are to improve the condition of the National Road Network
and enhance road sector management.
The Program consists of the following activities to be carried out within the National Road
Network from January 1, 2013 until December 31, 2019:
(1) 
Road rehabilitation and/or maintenance works, which consists of, inter alia: (i)
pavement rehabilitation; (ii) pavement resurfacing; (iii) shoulders' rehabilitation
and/or surfacing; (iv) repairing and/or upgrading drainage systems; and (v)
rehabilitation and maintenance of road vertical and horizontal signaling.
(2) 
Bridge rehabilitation and maintenance works, which consists of, inter alia: (i)
structure repairing of deck, abutments, piers and foundations; and (ii) the
enhancement of bridge functional characteristics, such as increasing bridge
extension, deck widening and increasing of bridge bearing capacity.
(3) 
Bridge reconstruction works, which consists of the construction of a new structure
and its contiguous road accesses to replace an existing bridge on the same location
or in its vicinity.
(4) 
Road safety investments, which consists of, inter alia: (i) investments to improve
visibility; (ii) investments to reduce road crashes severity; and (iii) the acquisition,
installation and maintenance of road safety equipment.
(5) 
Provision of technical assistance to DNV, DNTop and DINAPLO, including, inter
alia: (i) the carrying out of road condition surveys; (ii) the carrying out of training
and capacity building activities; and (iii) the carrying out of studies required to
implement the Program.
-7-
(b) 
The Borrower, through MTOP, shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations
under the Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate,
terminate, waive or fail to enforce the Subsidiary Agreements or any of its
provisions.
(c) 
Throughout the implementation of the Program, the Borrower shall exercise its
rights and carry out its obligations under the Concession Agreement in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish
the objectives of the Program.
3. 
Additional Program Implementation Arrangement
Without limitation on the generality of Part A of this Section I, unless otherwise agreed by
the Bank, the Borrower shall carry out the Program Action Plan or cause the Program
Action Plan to be carried out, in accordance with such schedule as shall have been
approved by the Bank, and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Section II. 
Excluded Activities
The Borrower shall ensure that the Program shall include no activities which:
A. 
in the opinion of the Bank are likely to have significant adverse impacts that are sensitive,
diverse, or unprecedented on the environment and/or affected people; or
B. 
involve procurement of: (i) works, estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent or more per
contract; (ii) goods, estimated to cost $30,000,000 equivalent or more per contract; (iii)
non-consulting services, estimated to cost $20,000,000 equivalent or more per contract;
and (iv) consultants' services, estimated to cost $15,000,000 equivalent or more per
contract.
Section III. 
Prop_ram Monitoring, Reportin2 and Evaluation; Audits
A. 
Program Reports
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of tile Program and prepare Program
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions. Each
Program Report shall: (a) include, inter alia, the information referred to in Section 5.08 (b)
of the General Conditions and the list of works contracts under execution in the National
Road Network; and (b) cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished
to the Bank not later than one month after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Program Financial Audits
1. 
Without limitation oil the generality of Section LA and C of this Schedule 2 and Section
5.09 of the General Conditions, the Borrower:
-8-
(a) 
through MTOP, shall have the Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. 
Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than one year after the end of such period; and
(b) 
shall cause CVU to: (i) have its financial statements audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank in accordance with consistently applied auditing
standards acceptable to the Bank. Each audit of said financial statements shall
cover the period of CVU's one fiscal year; and (ii) (A) not later than one year after
the end of each fiscal year, furnish to the Borrower, through MTOP, and the Bank
the audited financial statement for each such period; and (B) make publicly
available in a timely fashion and in a manner acceptable to the Bank, the financial
statements for each such period.
C. 
Technical Audits
The Borrower, through MTOP, shall: (a) not later than six months after the Effective Date,
hire independent auditors under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, to carry out the
verification of compliance of the First, Second and Fourth DLIs which are set forth in the
table in Section IV.A.2 of this Schedule; and (b) cause said independent auditors to, not
later than thirty days after the verification of compliance of said DLIs has been completed,
prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank, a report on the results of said verification
of compliance process of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the
Bank may specify from time to time by notice to the Borrower to: (a) pay the Front-end
Fee; (b) pay each Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar premium; and (c) finance the
results ("Disbursement Linked Results" or "DLRs") achieved by the Borrower, as
measured against specific indicators ("Disbursement Linked Indicators" or "DLIs"); all as
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 of this Part A.
2. 
The following table specifies each category of withdrawal of the proceeds of the Loan
(including 
the Disbursement Linked Indicators as applicable) ("Category"), the
Disbursement Linked Results for each Category (as applicable), and the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category:
-9-
Amount of the Loan
Disbursement Linked 
Disbursement 
Allocated
Indicator 
Linked Result 
(expressed in USD)
(1) First DLI:
Cumulative number of kilometers 
DLR#1: Each 
$23,000,000, of
of the National Road Network kilometer. 
which $25,843 for
from a baseline of 524 kilometers 
each DLR
rehabilitated at a minimum rating
of 85, as measured by the IES for
the first Loan withdrawal under
this Category; and at least 50
additional kilometers rehabilitated
on the terms stipulated herein in
respect of each subsequent Loan
withdrawal.
(2) Second DLI:
Number of kilometers of the 
DLR#2. 1: 
DLR#2. 1:
National Road Network 
3,000 
kilometers 
in 
$7,000,000
maintained through Performance- 
calendar year 2017.
based Contracts.
DLR #2.2 
DLR#2.2:
3,000 
kilometers 
in 
$7,000,000
calendar year 2018.
DLR #2.3 
DLR#2.1:
3,000 kilometers 
in 
$7,000,000
calendar year 2019.
-10-
(3) Third DLI
Strengthening of MTOP's capacity 
DLR#3.1 (a): 
DLR#3.1(a):
for road sector management. 
MTOP's central 
1,000,000
laboratory for
roadworks quality
assurance has carried
out at least 5% of the
asphalt, pavement and
soil tests required by
the work contracts in
execution in calendar
year 2017, as
reflected in the
Program Reports.
DLR#3.1 (b): 
DLR#3.1(b):
MTOP's central 
1,000,000
laboratory for
roadworks quality
assurance has carried
out at least 5% of the
asphalt, pavement and
soil tests required by
the works contracts in
execution in calendar
year 2018, as
reflected in the
Program Reports.
DLR#3.1 (c): 
DLR#3.1(c):
MTOP's central 
1,000,000
laboratory for
roadworks quality
assurance has carried
out at least 5% of the
asphalt, pavement and
soil tests required by
the works contracts in
execution in calendar
year 2019, as
reflected in the
Program Reports.
DLR#3.2: (a) a study 
DLR#3.2(a):
to assess which areas 
1,000,000
of the National Road
Network are subject
-11-
to climatic risks has
been completed.
DLR #3.2 (b): 
DLR#3.2(b):
number of selected 
$50,000 
for 
each
bridges from a 
bridge diagnosed up
baseline of 0 have 
to 
an 
amount 
of
been diagnosed 
$1,000,000
against climatic risks.
DLR#3.2 (c) a 
DLR#3.2(c):
contingency plan for 
1,000,000
catastrophic climate
related events has
been developed.
(4) Fourth DLI
Number of km of the National Road 
DLR #4: each 
DLR#4:
Network that benefitted from road 
kilometer. 
$20,000,000, of
safety improvements. 
which $76,000 for
each DLR
TOTAL AMOUNT 
$70,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-
end Fee; or
-12-
(b) 
for any DLR referred to in the table in Part A.2 of this Section unless and until the
Bank is satisfied based on evidence acceptable to the Bank that said DLR has been
fully achieved on terms and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.1(b) of this Section:
(a) 
If the Borrower has partially achieved any DLR under Category (2), the Bank may
authorize the withdrawal of a portion of the amount of the Loan then allocated to
said DLR, provided that the number of kilometers maintained under the pertinent
DLR shall have exceeded the DLR Baseline, which portion of the Loan amount to
be withdrawn shall be calculated in accordance with a formula acceptable to the
Bank.
(b) 
If any DLR under Category (2), has not been achieved or has been partially
achieved (and, as a result of which a portion of the Loan has been withdrawn
pursuant to paragraph 2 (a) herein), the Bank may at any time, by notice to the
Borrower, decide in its sole discretion to: (i) authorize the withdrawal of the
unwithdrawn portion of Loan proceeds then allocated to said DLR, at such later
date (prior to the Closing Date) if and when the Bank shall be satisfied that the
pertinent DLR under the same Category for any subsequent calendar year has been
fully achieved; (ii) reallocate the unwithdrawn portion of the proceeds of the Loan
then allocated to such DLR under said Category to any other Category; and/or (iii)
cancel said unwithdrawn portion of the proceeds of the Loan then allocated to such
DLR under said Category.
3. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2020.
4. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section IV, if the Bank establishes after
the Closing Date that the Withdrawn Loan Balance exceeds the total amount of Program
Expenditures paid by the Borrower, exclusive of any such expenditures financed by any
other financier or by the Bank or the Association under any other loan, credit or grant, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such excess
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance. The Bank shall cancel the refunded amount of
the Withdrawn Loan Balance.
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree to amend the Original Loan Agreement as set forth
in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
-13-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: 
(a)
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment
Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary,
to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each February 15 and August 15
Beginning August 15, 2022
through August 15, 2034 
4%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as
of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding
on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall
be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
-14-
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating
to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-15-
SCHEDULE 4
Amendments to the Original Loan Agreement
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree to amend Schedule 1 of the Original Loan
Agreement as follows:
1. 
The first two paragraphs of Schedule I are hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows:
"The objectives of the Program are to improve the condition of the National Road Network
and enhance road sector management.
The Program consists of the following activities to be carried out within the National Road
Network from January 1, 2013 until December 31, 2019:".
2. 
Paragraph 4 of Schedule I is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows:
"(4) Road safety investments, which consists of, inter alia: (i) investments to improve
visibility; (ii) investments to reduce road crashes severity; and (iii) the acquisition,
installation and maintenance of road safety equipment."
-16-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" 
means the Bank's "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Program-for-Results Financing," dated February 1,
2012, and revised July 10, 2015.
2. 
"Assignment Agreement" means the agreement (Contrato de Cesi6n) of February 18,
2003, entered into between CVU and CND pursuant to which CND assigned its rights and
obligations under the Concession Agreement to CVU.
3. 
"CAF" means Corporaci6n Andina de Fonento, Andean Development Corporation,
established pursuant to its articles of agreement, dated February 7, 1968.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
5. 
"Co-financier" means: (i) Inter-American Development Bank; (ii) CAF; (iii) FOCEM; and
(iv) FONPLATA.
6. 
"Co-financing" means, for purposes of paragraph 16 of the Appendix to the General
Conditions: (i) an amount of $81,200,000 to be provided by Inter-American Development
Bank; (ii) an amount of $90,600,000 to be provided by CAF; (iii) an amount of $28,200,000
to be provided by FOCEM; and (iv) an amount of $31,000,000 to be provided by
FONPLATA, to assist in financing the Program.
7. 
"Co-financing Agreement" means: (i) the agreement between the Borrower and the Inter-
American Development Bank, dated March 15, 2012; (ii) the agreements between the
Borrower and CAF, dated February 25, 2014 and October 25, 2016; (iii) the agreements to
be entered between the Borrower and FOCEM; and the agreements between the Borrower
and FONPLATA, dated February 17, 2016 and September 27, 2016, providing for the Co-
financing.
8. 
"CND" means Corporacidn Nacional para el Desarrollo, the Borrower's Development
Corporation, established pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 15.785, dated December 4,
1985, and published in the Borrower's official gazette on December 23, 1985.
9. 
"Concession" means the Borrower's road concession (currently administered by CVU (as
defined below)), whereby CVU is responsible for the construction, rehabilitation and
maintenance works of selected roads and bridges within the National Road Network.
10. 
"Concession Agreement" means the agreement entered into between the Borrower,
through MTOP (as defined below) and CND dated October 5, 2001 (as amended to the
date of this Agreement) for purposes of, inter alia, granting to CND the administration of
the Mega-Concession (as defined below).
11. 
"CVU" means Corporaci6n Vial del Uruguay, S.A., an entity vested with legal personality,
which has been assigned the rights and obligations of Corporaci6n Nacional para el
-17-
Desarrollo (CND) under the Concession Agreement pursuant to the terms of the
Assignment Agreement (defined above).
12. 
"DINAPLO" means Direcci6n Nacional de Planificaci6n y Logistica, the Borrower's
National Department of Logistics and Planning within MTOP (as defined below).
13. 
"Disbursement Linked Indicator" or "DLI" means, in respect of a given Category, the
indicator related to said Category as set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
14. 
"Disbursement Linked Result" or "DLR" means, in respect of a given Category, the result
under said Category as set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, on the basis of the achievement of which, the amount of the Loan allocated to
said result may be withdrawn in accordance with the provisions of said Section IV.
15. 
"DLR Baseline" means, for the purpose of Section IV.B.2 (a) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, the following baseline results: (i) 1,500 kilometers for DLR 2.1; (ii) 1,500
kilometers for DLR 2.2; and (iii) 1,500 kilometers for DLR 2.3.
16. 
"DNTop" means Direcci6n Nacional de Topografia, the Borrower's National Department
of Topographics Surveying within MTOP (as defined below).
17. 
"DNV" means Direcci6n Nacional de Vialidad, the Borrower's National Department of
Highways within MTOP (as defined below).
18. 
"FOCEM" means Fondo para la Convergencia Estructural del Mercosur, Fund for the
Structural Convergence of Mercosur, established pursuant to Decision CMC No 45/04
dated December 16, 2004.
19. 
"FONPLATA" means Fondo Financiero para el Desarrollo de los Paises de la Cuenca
delPlata, Fund for the Development of the Countries of the Rio del Plata Basin, established
pursuant to its Articles of Agreement, dated June 12, 1974.
20. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
21. 
"IES" means Indice de Estado de Superficie, the Borrower's index served to rate the
condition of the road after the same has been rehabilitated, as defined in MTOP's
Instructivo de Mediciain del Indice de Estado de Superficie, dated August 2000.
22. 
"MEF" means Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas, the Borrower's Ministry of Economy
and Finance.
23. 
"MTOP" means Ministerio de Transporte y Obras Pblicas, the Borrower's Ministry of
Transport and Public Works.
24. 
"MVOTMA" means Ministerio de Vivienda, Ordenamiento Territorialy Medio Anbiente,
the Borrower's Ministry of Housing, Land Planning and Environment.
-18-
25. 
"National Road Network" means the Borrower's national roads (Caminos Nacionales) as
described in the Borrower's Decreto-Ley No. 10.382, dated February 13, 1943, and in
MTOP's Resolution dated January 21, 2016.
26. 
"Original Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement between the Borrower and the
Bank, dated December 11, 2012 (Loan No 8205-UY), in support of the Original Program.
27. 
"Original Program" means the Program described in the Original Loan Agreement.
28. 
"Performance-Based Contract" means a multi-year contract under the Program, entered
into by the Borrower, through MTOP and/or DNV, with a private sector contractor,
whereby payments to the contractor are based, inter alia, on the quality of the road
maintenance carried out by said private sector contractor.
29. 
"Program Action Plan" means the Borrower's plan dated February 23, 2017, acceptable to
the Bank, and referred to in Section I.C.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as said plan
may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
30. 
"Program Fiduciary, Environmental and Social Systems" means the Borrower's systems
for the Program referred to in Section L.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
31. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement dated February 17, 2013, referred to in
Section I.C.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time with the agreement of the Bank.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
Wherever used throughout the General Conditions, the term "the Project" is modified to
read "the Program", the term "the Project Agreement" is modified to read "the Program
Agreement", the term "Project Implementing Entity" is modified to read "the Program
Implementing Entity", the term "Project Report" is modified to read "Program Report";
and the term "Eligible Expenditures" is modified to read "Program Expenditures".
2. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the amendments set forth below.
3. 
Section 2.02, Special Commitment by the Bank, is deleted in its entirety, and the subsequent
Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
4. 
In Section 2.02 (originally numbered as Section 2.03), the heading "Applications for
Withdrawal or for Special Commitment" is replaced with "Applications for Withdrawal",
and the phrase "or to request the Bank to enter into a Special Commitment" is deleted.
5. 
The section originally numbered as Section 2.04, Designated Accounts is deleted in its
entirety, and the subsequent Sections in Article 11 are renumbered accordingly.
-19-
6. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (originally numbered as Section 2.05), Eligible Expenditures
(renamed "Program Expenditures" in accordance with paragraph I of this Section II), is
modified to read: "(a) the payment is for the financing of the reasonable cost of
expenditures required for the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
in accordance with the provisions of the Legal Agreements;".
7. 
The last sentence of Section 2.04 (originally numbered as Section 2.06), Financing Taxes,
is modified to read: "To that end, if the Bank at any time determines that the amount of any
such Tax is excessive, or that such Tax is discriminatory or otherwise unreasonable, the
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, exclude such amount or such Tax from the Program
Expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as required to ensure
consistency with such policy of the Bank."
8. 
Section 2.06 (originally numbered as Section 2.08), Reallocation, is modified to read:
"Notwithstanding any allocation of an amount of the Loan to a withdrawal category under
the Loan Agreement, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, reallocate any other amount
of the Loan to such category if the Bank reasonably determines at any time that such
reallocation is appropriate for the purposes of the Program.
9. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually
in arrears on each Payment Date."
10. 
Section 7.01, Cancellation by the Borrower, is modified to read: "The Borrower may, by
notice to the Bank, cancel any amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance."
11. 
Paragraph (d) of Section 7.03, Cancellation by the Bank, entitled "Misprocurement", is
deleted, and subsequent paragraphs are relettered accordingly.
12. 
Section 7.04, Amounts Subject to Special Connnitnent not Affected by Cancellation or
Suspension by the Bank, is deleted in its entirety, and subsequent Sections in Article VII
and references to such Sections are renumbered accordingly.
13. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all references to Section numbers and paragraphs are
modified, as necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above.
-20-
14. 
A new paragraph 19 is inserted with the following definition of "Commitment Charge",
and the remaining paragraphs are renumbered accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
15. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01
(a).
16. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition
of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower."
17. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and
Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
18. 
Renumbered paragraph 88 (originally paragraph 87) of the Appendix, setting forth the
definition of "Special Commitment" is deleted in its entirety, and all subsequent paragraphs
are renumbered accordingly.
