OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8764-MX
Loan Agreement
(Improving Access to Affordable Housing Project)
between
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
October 26th ,2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
October 26th 
,2017, between UNITED
MEXICAN STATES ("Borrower") duly represented by its Ministry of Finance and Public
Credit (Secretaria de Hacienda y Crdito Pblico) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank").
Whereas the Borrower has informed the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan (as set
forth in' the table in Section IV.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and for purposes of
supporting the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (the "Project")), shall be
used in conformity with the requirements of the Borrower's income, budgetary and public
debt laws and the terms of this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
Noting that the Borrower has informed the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan shall
be used in conformity with the requirements of the Borrower's income, budgetary
and public debt laws and the terms of this Agreement, but without limitation to the
provisions of Section 8.01 of the General Conditions , the Bank agrees to lend to
the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
the amount of one hundred million Dollars ($100,000,000), as such amount may
be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with
the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist the Borrower
in financing the Project.
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. Unless the Borrower's Representative
designated in Section 6.01 of this Agreement otherwise informs the Bank, the
Borrower's Representative for purposes of taking any action required or permitted
to be taken pursuant to this Section is the NAFIN's Director(a) de Organismos
Financieros Internacionales or any person or persons whom such representative
shall designate in writing.
-2-
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, however, that the interest payable shall in no event be less than zero
percent (0%) per annum; and provided furthermore that, upon a Conversion of all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the
Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance
remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty
days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as
provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; and (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
-3-
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.09. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure
Limit (as said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of
this Section), the Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of
one half of one percent (0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess
Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for
each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if any)
shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set
forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during
which the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit,
the product of: (A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the
ratio of all (or, if the Bank so determines, a portion) of the Loan
to the aggregate amount of all (or the equivalent portions) of the
loans made by the Bank to the Borrower and to other borrowers
guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an exposure
surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined from
time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the
Bank's financial exposure to the Borrower, which, if exceeded,
would subject the Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined
from time to time by the Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total
financial exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by
the Bank.
-4-
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower, through the Comisi6n Nacional de Vivienda (CONAVI), shall carry
out the Project, in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and the Contrato de Mandato.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through
CONAVI, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely,
that any of the parties to the Contrato de Mandato shall have failed to perform any
of their obligations under the Contrato de Mandato, and such failure, in the opinion
of the Bank, materially or adversely affects the objective of the Project.
4.02 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to
the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that
the Contrato de Mandato has been duly executed by the parties thereto.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following:
(a) the Borrower (through SHCP and CONAVI), have issued two separate legal
opinions -one for SHCP and one for CONAVI-satisfactory to the Bank, by the
Borrower and CONAVI's counsel acceptable to the Bank respectively-
indicating that the Contrato de Mandato has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower (through SHCP and
CONAVI), and is legally binding upon the Borrower and CONAVI in
accordance with the Contrato de Mandato's terms; and
(b) NAFIN has issued a legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank, by NAFIN's
counsel satisfactory to the Bank, indicating that the Contrato de Mandato has
been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of,
NAFIN, and is legally binding upon NAFIN in accordance with the Contrato
de Mandato's terms.
-5-
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower's
Representative is the Titular de la Unidad de Cridito Ptblico of SHCP. The
authorized representative to make requests for Conversions or for an IBRD Hedge
(as defined in the Hedging Guidelines) on behalf of the Borrower shall be: (a) the
Titular de la Unidad de Cridito Publico of SHCP or any person or persons whom
he or she shall designate in writing for this particular purpose; or (b) NAFIN's
Director(a) de Organismos Financieros Internacionales.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Secretaria de Hacienda y Cr6dito PTiblico
Unidad de Asuntos Internacionales de Hacienda
Insurgentes Sur 1971, torre HI, piso 3
Colonia Guadalupe Inn
0 1020 Ciudad de M6xico
M6xico
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-6-
AGREED at Mexico City, United Mexican States, as of the day and year first
above written.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By
Authorid Representative
Name: 
rer 
io re' 
aOrc
Title: _7 l 
r nL~ (,i 
R~
0~ 0~ y~~ 
(/Nio
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
14ar~ 
,. &t&6AaM2
Title: 
I(C-O&, aJmLla and MV~ec
-7-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to increase access to affordable housing for Low-
income Beneficiaries.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. Acquisition of Housing Units
The purpose of this activity is to enhance access to housing by assisting Low-income
Beneficiaries to purchase their first new or existing housing unit in Eligible Locations
through the provision of Direct Supports.
Part 2. Self-Production of Housing Units
The purpose of this activity is to enhance access to housing by assisting Low-income
Beneficiaries in the design and construction of their housing units through the provision of
Direct Supports.
Part 3. Strengthening Urban Management
The purpose of the activities described below is to foster the development of affordable
housing through the carrying out of: (a) technical and analytical studies to assist in the
formulation/revision of selected municipal urban planning instruments including, inter
alia: (i) housing demand diagnostics; (ii) infrastructure requirement analysis for urban
renovation and/or densification master plans; (iii) technical-prefeasibility studies; (iv)
architecture urban design studies; and (v) financial structuring for affordable housing
investments; and (b) citizen awareness campaigns and other dissemination/communication
activities.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements.
1. 
The Borrower, through CONAVI, shall:
(a) (i) carry out the Project in accordance with a manual, acceptable to the Bank
(Project Operational Manual or POM); and (ii) not amend, abrogate or waive
the POM or any of its provisions without the Bank's written prior consent. In
case of conflict between the provisions of the POM and the provisions of this
Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail; and
(b) assign responsibility for the management, implementation, monitoring and
reporting of the Project among its units, all staffed with personnel in adequate
numbers, with functions and responsibilities as described in the POM.
2. 
For purposes of implementing Parts 1 and 2 of the Project, the Borrower, through
CONAVI, shall: (a) maintain the existing agreement; or (b) if applicable, enter
into an agreement, with each Executing Entity (Convenio de Adhesi6n), all under
terms and conditions set forth in the POM, including, inter alia:
(a) CONAVI's obligation to provide, in timely manner as needed and as set forth
in the POM, the funds, in the form of Direct Support, required for
implementing Parts 1 and 2 of the Project to the pertinent Executing Entity;
(b) the Executing Entity's obligation, pursuant to the pertinent Convenio de
Adhesi6n, to:
(i) 
comply with all applicable provisions as laid out in this Agreement,
including the obligation to carry out, or cause to be carried out, Parts
1 and 2 of the Project in accordance with the POM (including the
pertinent provisions of the IPP and the ESMF) and Section I.D of this
Schedule;
(ii) 
maintain records in accordance with sound accounting standards and
practices to adequately reflect the Direct Supports that have been made
available to assist CONAVI in the implementation of Parts 1 and 2 of
the Project; and
(iii) 
after having selected and approved a Direct Support proposal
following the selection criteria and procedures set forth in the POM:
-9-
(A) enter into an agreement with each Low-income Beneficiary, under
terms and conditions as set forth in the POM; and (B) in respect to Part
2 of the Project, enter into an agreement (Convenio Marco) with each
Works-Executing Entity (OEO) under terms and conditions as set
forth in the POM, including, inter alia, the obligation of each OEO to:
(1) provide technical assistance to the Low-income Beneficiary; and
(2) carry out the activities on behalf of the Low-income Beneficiary
in accordance with the Commercial Practices set forth in the POM, all
pursuant to an agreement with the Low-income Beneficiary under
terms and conditions as set forth in the POM.
3. 
For purposes of implementing Part 3 of the Project, the Borrower, through
CONAVI, shall enter into an agreement (Collaboration Agreement) with each
Participating Municipality under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank and
set forth in the POM, including the obligation of the Participating Municipality to
collaborate with CONAVI in the technical implementation of the activities under
said Part of the Project.
4. 
The Borrower, through CONAVI, shall: (a) exercise its rights and carry out its
obligations under each Convenio de Adhesi6n and each Collaboration Agreement;
and (b) not take any action in respect of any Convenio de Adhesi6n or any
Collaboration Agreement, or any of their provisions which shall affect materially
and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of CONAVI to implement
the Project, as set forth in this Agreement. For purposes of this Project, in case of
any conflict between the terms of any Convenio de Adhesi6n or any Collaboration
Agreement and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
C. 
Contrato de Mandato
1 .
For purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower, through SHCP and
CONAVI (in its capacity as the Project implementing entity), shall enter into a
contract (Contrato de Mandato) with NAFIN, satisfactory to the Bank, whereby:
(a) 
CONAVI agrees to carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions
of this Agreement including compliance with the POM and the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines (including the provisions set forth in Section I. D
of this Schedule);
(b) 
NAFIN agrees to act as financial agent of the Borrower with respect to the
Loan, meaning that, inter alia, NAFIN agrees to represent the Borrower
vis-a-vis the Bank for purposes of submitting Loan withdrawal
applications to the Bank in form and substance sufficient to justify
disbursements by the Bank to the Borrower, referred to in the additional
instructions cited in Section IV.A. 1 of this Schedule, all of this in
- 10 -
compliance with the provisions of this Agreement, and to abide by the
Anti-Corruption Guidelines;
(c) 
The Borrower, through SHCP, shall have the right to, in case of fraud or
corruption (as defined in the Anti-Corruption Guidelines) provide for the
early termination of the Contrato de Mandato or temporarily suspend its
effects, or, if applicable, require the Restitution of funds transferred to
NAFIN under the Contrato de Mandato; and
(d) 
CONAVI agrees to cooperate fully with NAFIN to ensure that NAFIN and
CONAVI are able to comply with all their obligations referred to in this
Agreement.
2. 
The Borrower, through SHCP and CONAVI, shall and shall cause NAFIN to,
exercise their rights and carry out their obligations under the Contrato de Mandato
in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan.
3. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, neither the Borrower, through SHCP and
CONAVI, shall, and shall cause NAFIN to, not amend, terminate, abrogate, waive
or fail to enforce any provision of the Contrato de Mandato. In case of any conflict
between the provisions of the Contrato de Mandato and those of this Agreement,
the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
D. 
Anti-Corruption
1 .
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. In this regard, the Borrower, through
CONAVI, shall ensure compliance with, inter alia, paragraph 9 (d) of the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines, as follows:
(a) 
by requiring the Executing Entities to take appropriate measures to prevent,
inform on, respond to and investigate corrupt, fraudulent, collusive,
coercive and obstructive practices with respect to their participation in the
Project;
(b) 
by allowing the Bank to, in the company of CONAVI's representatives,
inspect accounts, records and other documents of any and/or all the
Executing Entities relating to the Project upon the Bank's request;
(c) 
by allowing the Bank, at its request, to have such accounts, records and
other documents audited by or on behalf of the Bank, using the Bank's
terms of reference for such purpose, with the collaboration of the Borrower
and CONAVI; and
- 11 -
(d) 
by agreeing to obtain Restitution from any and/or all of the Executing
Entities, as the case may be, all the above pursuant to audit, transparency,
control, restitution and information sharing clauses within the Convenios
de Adhesi6n, the POM, the Oficio referred under Section I.D.2 below,
and/or any other means (including, but not limited to the Borrower's rights
under the Federal Budget and Fiscal Responsibility Law, the Federal
Public Debt Law, and the Monitoring and Accountability Law).
2. 
(a) 
Without limitation to the provisions in paragraph 1 of this Section, and
prior to the carrying out of any activity under Parts 1 and 2 of the Project,
the Borrower, through CONAVI shall issue a notice (Oficio) acceptable
to the Bank, which Oficio shall provide, inter alia, that: (i) any Executing
Entity participating in the Project shall comply and ensure compliance
with the transparency and governance provisions referred to above, and
(ii) upon deposit of the Direct Support(s) by CONAVI in the relevant
Executing Entity's account, such deposit shall be interpreted as an
acceptance of the Oficio's transparency and governance provisions.
(b) 
The Borrower, through CONAVI, shall ensure, throughout Project
implementation, that each Executing Entity referred to in (a) above shall
comply with the terms and conditions of the respective Oficio.
E. 
Safeguards.
The Borrower, through CONAVI, shall: (a) carry out the Project in accordance with the
ESMF and the IPP; and (b) cause each Executing Entity to: (i) carry out Part 1 of the Project
in accordance with the ESMF and the IPP; and (ii) ensure that the OEOs shall carry out the
activities under Part 2 of the Project in accordance with the ESMF and the IPP. Except as
otherwise agreed by the Bank, the Borrower, through CONAVI, shall not amend, abrogate,
waive, or fail to enforce the ESMF and IPP or any of their provisions.
Section II. 
Project Monitorin2 Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower, through CONAVI, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the
Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than sixty (60) days after the end of the
period covered by such report.
- 12 -
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower, through CONAVI, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of
the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower,
through CONAVI, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five
(45) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial
reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to
the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through CONAVI, shall have the Financial Statements audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each
audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the
Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
Section HI. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed with an amount
equivalent to the amount in Dollars provided under this Agreement shall be
procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I
of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed with an amount equivalent to the amount in Dollars provided under
this Agreement shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and with the
provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
-13-
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive
Bidding; (b) Shopping; (c) Direct Contracting; and (d) Well-established Private
Sector Procurement Methods or Commercial Practices which have been found
acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the POM.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; (d) Selection based on Consultants'
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Procedures set
forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of
Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
- 14 -
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated February 2017, as
revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement
pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the
table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account on
or after the Effective Date and pay to itself the Front-end Fee payable pursuant to
Section 3.01 of the General Conditions. The remaining proceeds of the Loan shall
be disbursed in Dollars unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and the
Bank and so reflected in the additional instructions referred to in Section IV.A.1
immediately above. Consistently with Section 2.05 of the General Conditions, the
Borrower shall use an amount equivalent to the amount in Dollars provided under
the Loan Agreement to finance Eligible Expenditures.
3. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed with an amount equivalent to the amount in Dollars provided under this
Agreement ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
Expenditures in each Category:
- 15-
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Direct Supports under 
99,750,000 
100%
Parts 1 and 2 of the Project;
consultants' services and,
non-consulting 
services
under Part 3 of the Project
(2) Front-end Fee 
250,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(3) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest 
Rate 
Collar 
Section 2.08(c) of this
premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
100,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $20,000,000 may be made
for payments made prior to this date but on or after the date twelve (12) months
prior to the date of this Agreement, for Eligible Expenditures under the Project.
2. 
The Closing Date is May 31, 2021.
- 16-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on January 15, 2032.
- 17-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
3. 
"CONAVI" means Comisi6n Nacional de la Vivienda, the Borrower's National
Housing Commission with separate legal personality and budgetary autonomy
established pursuant to Article 18 of the Borrower's Ley de Vivienda (published in
the Official Gazette on June 27, 2006, and amended throughout March 24, 2014),
or any successor thereto.
4. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised in July 2014).
5. 
"Collaboration Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in Section
I.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
6. 
"Contrato de Mandato" means the agreement between the Borrower (through
SHCP and CONAVI) and NAFIN referred to in Section I.C. I of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
7. 
"Convenio de Adhesi6n" means any of the agreements referred to in Section I.A.2
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
8. 
"Convenio Marco" means any of the agreements referred to in Section I. A. 2 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
9. 
"Direct Support" means a non-reimbursable contribution in an amount to be
defined by a resource allocation methodology set forth in the POM, made out of
an equivalent amount of the proceeds of the Loan to any given Low-income
Beneficiary under Parts I and 2 of the Project.
10. 
"Eligible Location" means any of the Borrower's geographical locations selected
pursuant to the criteria established in the POM.
11. 
"ESMF" means the Environmental and Social Framework prepared by CONAVI,
acceptable to the Bank, published in the Borrower's territory and on the Bank's
external website on April 21, 2017, setting forth the principles, guidelines, rules
- 18 -
and procedures to assess the potential environiental, social, health and safety
impacts of Project activities, and mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures
to be taken to offset or eliminate any such negative impacts, or reduce them to
acceptable levels, including a list of specific requirements to be included the terms
of reference to be prepared under Part 3 of the Project; as said framework may be
amended from time to time with the Bank's prior written approval.
12. 
"Executing Entity" means, inter alia: any of the Borrower's national housing
entities (inter alia, INFONAVIT, FOVISSSTE and ISSFAM), commercial banks,
savings and loans financial institutions, financial intermediaries and municipal and
state housing organisms; all selected to participate in the implementation of Parts
1 and 2 of the Project, pursuant to the criteria and procedures established in the
POM, and "Executing Entities" means, collectively, all such entities.
13. 
"Federal Budget and Fiscal Responsibility Law" means the Borrower's Ley
Federal de Presupuesto y Responsabilidad Hacendaria, as said law and its
subsequent amendments have been published in the Official Gazette.
14. 
"FOVISSSTE" means Fondo de Vivienda del Instituto de Seguridad y Servicios
Sociales de los Trabajadores del Estado, or any successor thereto.
15. 
"Federal Public Debt Law" means the Borrower's Ley Federal de Deuda Pblica,
as said law and its subsequent amendments have been published in the Official
Gazette
16. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
17. 
"Hedging Guidelines" means the Bank's Guidelines for Using Hedging Products
dated March 23, 2009, or any later guidelines issued by the Bank to replace said
guidelines.
18. 
"INFONAVIT" means Instituto Nacional de la Vivienda para Trabajadores, or
any successor thereto.
19. 
"IPP" means the Indigenous Peoples Plan prepared by CONAVI, acceptable to the
Bank, and published in the Borrower's territory and on the Bank's external website
on April 11, 2017, which includes, inter alia, measures to ensure that indigenous
peoples receive social and economic benefits that are culturally appropriate under
the Project, as said plan may be updated, from time to time, with the Bank's prior
written approval.
20. 
"ISSFAM" means Instituto de Seguridad Social para las Fuerzas Armadas, or any
successor thereto.
- 19-
21. 
"Low-income Beneficiary" means any low-income individual selected to receive
a Direct Support under Parts 1 and 2 of the Project pursuant to the criteria and
procedures established in the POM.
22. 
"Monitoring and Accountability Law" means the Borrower's Ley de Fiscalizaci6n
y Rendicidn de Cuentas de la Federacidn, as said law and its subsequent
amendments have been published in the Official Gazette.
23. 
"NAFIN" means Nacional Financiera, S.N.C., I.B.D., a Mexican development
bank serving as the Borrower's financial agent for purposes of the Loan, or any
successor thereto.
24. 
"Official Gazette" means the Borrower's official gazette (Diario Oficial de la
Federaci6n).
25. 
"Oficio" means the notice referred in Section I.D.2(a)(i) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
26. 
"Participating Municipality" means any of the Borrower's municipalities selected
pursuant to criteria and procedures set for in the POM to collaborate with CONAVI
in the technical implementation of the activities under Part 3 of the Project.
27. 
"Project Operational Manual" or "POM" means the manual prepared by CONAVI,
satisfactory to the Bank, referred to in Section I.A.1 (b) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, which includes inter alia: (a) the procurement, disbursement and
financial management requirements for the Project; (b) the eligibility criteria of
Low-income Beneficiaries, Executing Entities and OEOs under Parts 1 and 2 of the
Project and Participating Municipalities under Part 3 of the Project; (c) the IPP; (d)
the ESMF; (e) the indicators for monitoring and evaluating progress towards the
attainment of the Project objective; (f) the Anti-Corruption Guidelines; (g) the
Oficio; and (h) the model agreement for the Convenio de Adhesi6n, the Convenio
Marco and the Collaboration Agreement.
28. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised in July 2014).
29. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
May 12, 2017 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
- 20 -
30. 
"Restitution" means the refund to the Borrower of the portion of the equivalent
amount of the Loan with respect to which fraud and corruption has occurred as set
forth in the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
31. 
"Rules of Operation" means the Borrower's Reglas de Operaci6n del Programa
de Acceso al Financiamiento para Soluciones Habitacionales, the Borrower's
Rules of Operation of the Financing for Housing Solutions Program, published in
the Official Gazette in December 30, 2016, as the same may be amended from time
to time.
32. 
"SHCP" means Secretaria de Hacienda y Crdito Puiblico, the Borrower's
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, or any successor thereto.
33. 
"Works-Executing Entity" or "OEO" means Organismo Ejecutor de Obra, a
Borrower's non-profit or social housing developer, state or municipal housing
authority or similar organization approved by CONAVI and registered in
CONAVI's OEO registry, as published in CONAVI's website, all selected
pursuant to the criteria and procedures set forth in the POM.
Section H. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1 .
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. 
The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
-21-
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any
prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of
a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable
upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any
Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
