OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8745-VN
Loan Agreement
(Vietnam Coastal Cities Sustainable Environment Project)
between
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
afbll- 
9J 
, 2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
(cb 6 
7 
, 2017, between SOCIALIST REPUBLIC
OF VIETNAM ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank").
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the International Development Association (the
"Association") to provide financial assistance in support of Parts I and 3 (a) of the project
described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project"), and the Association has agreed to
provide such financial assistance upon the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Association (the "Financing
Agreement").
NOW THEREFORE, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, the Financing
Agreement or in the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of forty-six million Dollars (USD
46,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing Part 2 of the Project.
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
-2-
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, however, that the interest payable shall in no event be less than zero
percent (0%) per annum; and provided furthermore that, upon a Conversion of
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the
Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance
remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty
days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as
provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are January I and July I in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
-3-
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the Project Provinces in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4. 01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Governor, or a Deputy Governor, of State
Bank of Vietnam.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
State Bank of Vietnam
49 Ly Thai To
Hanoi, Vietnam
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
VIETBANK 
412248 
(84-4) 3825 0612
-4-
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 II Strect, N.W.
Washington, D.C.20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
AGREED at Hanoi, Socialist Republic of Vietnam, as of the day and year
first above written.
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
N~ 
t"-i 
Rt*iq
Title: 
CrVZ-nCY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT,
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
uSwet 
P on7t
Title:.Prcr-i-Va 
a,
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to increase access to sanitation services and improve
the operational performance of sanitation utilities in the Project Cities.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Sanitation Infrastructure Expansion
(a) 
Flood Reduction Works: provision of support to Project Cities for the rehabilitation
and improvement of selected embankments of lakes, canals, and rivers; and
construction of a new retention lake and rehabilitation of existing lakes.
(b) 
Drainage and Wastewater Collection Networks: provision of support to Project
Cities for the construction of primary and/or secondary sewers, tertiary sewers,
pumping stations, and household and commercial connections.
(c) 
Wastewater Treatment Plants: provision of support to Project Cities for the
upgrading of the Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system; and
construction of a new wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) and upgrading selected
existing WWTPs.
(d) 
School Sanitation and Public Toilets: provision of support to Project Cities to
improve access to sanitation services at selected schools and public toilets.
(e) 
Revolving Funds for Household Connections: provision of support to increase the
wastewater connections capacity through the establishment of a revolving fund in
the Borrower's Phan Rang - Thap Cham city to assist in the financing for
Sanitation Loans to eligible households in the said city to increase the number of
household connections to the drainage and sewerage networks.
(f) 
Solid Waste Management: provision of support to Project Cities for the
construction of a new landfill cell, upgrading of selected leachate treatment
facilities, and purchase of solid waste collection vehicles and equipment.
(g) 
Design and Supervision: provision of support to Project Cities for associated
implementation support, including engineering design, construction supervision,
financial audits, and environmental and social management.
-6-
Part 2: Urban Connectivity Improvement
Provision of support to Project Cities for: (a) constructing priority roads and bridges along
selected canals, drains or rivers to enhance drainage and sewer investments and urban road
transport networks; and (b) associated implementation support, including engineering
design, construction supervision, financial audits, and environmental and social
management.
Part 3: Compensation and Site Clearance
(a) 
Infrastructure of Resettlement: provision of support to Phan Rang - Thap Chain
city for the construction of residential infrastructure for its resettlement areas under
the Project.
(b) 
Compensation and site clearance: provision of support to the Project Cities for the
compensation and site clearance under the Project.
Part 4: Implementation Support and Institutional Reform
Carry out a capacity strengthening program for Project management and implementation
activities, including: (a) provision of support to enhance overall engineering design,
construction supervision, and environmental and social management; (b) carrying out of
capacity building activities through workshops, and training; (c) provision of support to for
the financial management, procurement, contract supervision and monitoring and
evaluation activities for the Project; and (d) provision of support for the operation of Project
Management Units.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section 1. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall, through each Project Province, throughout the period of
implementation of each Project Province's Respective Part of the Project,
maintain:
(a) 
a Project Steering Committee (PSC) chaired by a provincial leader of its
Provincial People's Committee and comprising representatives from its
Provincial People's Committee, Department of Planning and Investment,
Department of Finance, Department of Construction, and relevant line
departments, for the purpose of monitoring and guiding overall
implementation of the Respective Part of the Project in each Project City;
and
(b) 
a Project Management Unit (PMU) responsible for: (i) planning and
managing the implementation of its Respective Part of the Project,
including 
financial 
management 
and 
procurement; 
(ii) 
ensuring
coordination among all relevant departments and agencies of said Project
Province and of respective Project City, and service providers; and (iii)
monitoring and reporting on all Project activities; each such Project
Management Unit shall be under the direction of qualified management,
provided with sufficient resources, and staffed with competent personnel
in adequate numbers, including a director, a chief accountant, a
procurement specialist and a chief engineer, in each case with
qualifications and experience and under terms of reference acceptable to
the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower shall, through each Project Province:
(a) 
prepare and adopt a Project Operations Manual (POM) satisfactory to the
Bank setting forth guidelines and procedures for the implementation of
each Project Province's Respective Part of the Project, including: (i)
technical components; (ii) monitoring and evaluation arrangements; (iii)
environmental and social safeguards compliance; (iv) policies, procedures
and requirements under the Project in regard to financial management,
flow of funds, definition of roles and responsibilities, internal control and
reconciliation, record keeping, reporting and auditing; (v) guidelines and
procedures for procurement consistent with the provisions of Section III
of this Schedule 2, as well as the allocation of roles and responsibilities for
-8-
procurement review and approval; (vi) an integrity action plan; and (vii)
performance indicators; and
(b) 
not amend, revise or waive, nor allow to be amended, revised or waived,
the provisions of said POM or any part thereof, without the prior written
agreement of the Bank.
3. 
In case of any inconsistency between the provisions of the POM and those of this
Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
4. 
For purposes of Part 1 (e) of the Project, the Borrower shall, through its Ninh
Thuan province:
(a) 
prepare and adopt a Revolving Fund Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth
the procedures and requirements for the establishment and operation of a revolving
fund in the Borrower's Phan Rang - Thap Cham city; the fiduciary and other
arrangements for said fund; eligibility criteria for households applying for the
Sanitation Loans; and the terms and conditions of the Sanitation Loans;
(b) 
enter into an implementation arrangement with the Women's Union, satisfactory
to the Bank, whereby the Women's Union shall manage the revolving fund in the
Borrower's Phan Rang - Thap Chan city to make Sanitation Loans to eligible
households, in accordance with the provisions of the Revolving Fund Manual; and
(c) 
not amend, revise or waive, nor allow to be amended, revised or waived, the
provisions of said Revolving Fund Manual or any part thereof, without the prior
written agreement of the Bank.
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement
1. 
To facilitate the implementation of each Project Province's Respective Part of the
Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan and Financing available
to each Project Province under a Subsidiary Agreement between the Borrower,
represented by its Ministry of Finance, and the respective Project Province, under
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, which shall include the obligations
of the respective Project Province to:
(a) 
with respect to the proceeds of the Loan made available to the said Project
Province: (i) pay the Borrower a front-end fee in an amount equal to the
Front-end Fee specified in Section 2.03 of this Agreement; (ii) repay the
proceeds of the Loan over a period of twenty-nine (29) years, inclusive of
a grace period of ten (10) years; (iii) pay the Commitment Charge at the
rate payable by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.04 of this Agreement;
and (iv) interest on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time at the rate payable by the Borrower pursuant
-9-
to Section 2.05 of this Agreement, subject to any request that the Borrower
may make pursuant to Section 2.08 of this Agreement;
(b) 
with respect to the proceeds of the Financing made available to each
Project Province: (i) pay the Borrower a commitment charge on the
respective Unwithdrawn Credit Balance at the rate specified in Section
2.03.(a) of the Financing Agreement; (ii) repay the respective proceeds of
the Financing over a period applicable to the Borrower pursuant to Section
2.07 of the Financing Agreement; (iii) pay a Service Charge on the
respective Unwithdrawn Credit Balance at the rate specified in Section
2.04 (a) of the Financing Agreement; and (iv) pay interest on the respective
Withdrawn Credit Balance at the rate specified in Section 2.05 (a) of the
Financing Agreement;
(c) 
ensure that its Respective Part of the Project is carried out in accordance
with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to
recipients of Financing and Loan proceeds other than the Borrower;
(d) 
ensure that its Respective Part of the Project is carried out in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Operations Manual, and except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree in writing, not assign, amend, abrogate, or
waive, or permit to be assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived, the
aforementioned, or any provision thereof;
(e) 
ensure that its Respective Part of the Project is carried out in accordance
with the provisions of the Safeguard Instruments, and except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree in writing, not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or
permit 
to 
be 
assigned, 
amended, 
abrogated, 
or 
waived, 
the
aforementioned, or any provision thereof;
(f) 
ensure that: (i) an acceptable financial management system is maintained
and financial statements are prepared in accordance with consistently
applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner
adequate to reflect the operations and financial condition of the respective
Project Province, including the operations, resources, and expenditures
related to the Respective Part of the Project; and (ii) such statements are
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance
with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, and
such audited financial statements are furnished to the Borrower and the
Bank and made publicly available in a timely fashion and in a manner
acceptable to the Bank; and
(g) 
ensure that procurement of the goods, works, and non-consulting and
consultants' services required for the Respective Part of the Project is
carried out in accordance with the provisions of Section III of this
-10-
Schedule 2, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the
Procurement Plan.
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish
the purposes of the Loan and the Financing. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Agreement or any of its provisions.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall, through each Project Province:
(a) 
take all necessary actions to avoid or minimize to the extent possible any
involuntary relocation of persons, or their loss of shelter, assets, or access
to assets, or loss of income sources or means of livelihood, temporarily or
permanently; and
(b) 
in the event that Project activities give rise to Displaced Persons, prior to
the commencement of such activities, cause to be prepared, a Resettlement
Action Plan, acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with the guidelines,
requirements and procedures set forth in the Resettlement Policy
Framework, and thereafter implement in a timely manner said
Resettlement Action Plan as approved by the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower shall, through each Project Province, ensure that all land acquisition
required for the purposes of carrying out works under the Project are financed
exclusively out of its own resources, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
resources needed for these purposes, including: (a) all land acquisition required for
the purposes of carrying out the Project; (b) resettlement and rehabilitation
payments to Displaced Persons; and (c) all other costs associated with
environmental and/or social mitigation measures set forth in the Safeguard
Instruments.
3. 
The Borrower, through each Project Province, shall:
(a) 
implement in a timely manner the Environmental and Social Management
Plans, in accordance with the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment
acceptable to the Bank, as the case may be;
-11-
(b) 
ensure that no civil works carried out under the Project, shall commence
unless and until the relevant Safeguards Instruments are furnished to the
Bank and all requisite consultation and public disclosure activities have been
carried out, all in a manner and form satisfactory to the Bank; and
(c) 
ensure, that all terms of reference for any technical assistance or studies
carried out under the Project are consistent with, and pay due attention to,
the Bank's Safeguards Policies.
4. 
The Borrower, through each Project Province, shall:
(a) 
not amend, revise or waive, nor allow to be amended, revised or waived,
the provisions of the Safeguard Instruments or any provision of any one
thereof, without the prior written agreement of the Bank; and
(b) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, the
implementation of the Safeguard Instruments.
5. 
In case of any inconsistency between the provisions of any of the Safeguard
Instruments and this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
6. 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph 1 of Section H.A of this Schedule
2, the Borrower shall take all measures necessary on its part to regularly collect,
compile, and submit to the Bank, as part of the Project Reports, information on the
status of compliance with the Safeguards Instruments, giving details of:
(a) 
measures taken in furtherance of the Safeguards Instruments;
(b) 
conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the smooth
implementation of the Safeguards Instruments; and
(c) 
remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such
conditions.
Section H. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators acceptable to the Bank set forth in the
Project Operations Manual. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one
calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45)
days after the end of the period covered by such report.
-12-
2. 
The Borrower shall carry out jointly with the Bank, not later than twenty-four (24)
months after the Effective Date, or such other period as may be agreed by the Bank,
a midterm review to assess the status of Project implementation, as measures
against the performance indicators set forth in the Project Operations Manual. Such
review shall include an assessment of: (i) the progress in implementation; (ii) the
results of monitoring and evaluation activities; (iii) the progress on procurement
and disbursement; (iv) compliance with safeguard requirements; (v) adequacy of
implementation arrangements; and (vi) the need to make any adjustments to the
Project to improve performance.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1 .
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall,
through Project Provinces, prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project
Report not later than forty five (45) days after the end of each semester, interim
unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall, through Project Provinces, have its Financial Statements
audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General
Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one
fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such
period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
-13-
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan:
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set forth in
the Annex to this Schedule 2;
(b) Shopping; and
(c) Direct Contracting.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan:
(a) Least Cost Selection;
(b) Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications;
(c) Selection of Individual Consultants; and
(d) Single Source Selection.
-14-
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan and Financing Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan and the Financing in
accordance with the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this
Section, and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the
Borrower (including the "Disbursement Guidelines for Investment Project
Financing" dated February 2017, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as
made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance
Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Financing ("Category"), the
allocation of the amounts of the Loan and the Financing to each Category, and the
percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each
Category.
Category 
Amount of the 
Amount of 
Percentage of
Loan 
the Financing 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
Allocated 
financed
(expressed in 
(expressed in 
(inclusive of Taxes)
USD) 
SDR)
(1) Goods, works, non- 
13,033,000 
26,501,400 
100%
consulting services, and
consultants' 
services
for 
Quang 
Binh
province's Respective
Part of the Project
(2) Goods, works, non- 
4,562,000 
33,210,400 
100%
consulting services, and
consultants' 
services
for 
Binh 
Dinh
province's Respective
Part of the Project
-15-
(3) Goods, works, non- 
14,797,000 
32,682,200 
100%
consulting services, and
consultants' 
services
for 
Khanh 
Hoa
province's Respective
Part of the Project
(4) Goods, works, non- 
8,855,000 
48,106,000 
100% and 100% of
consulting services, 
amount 
disbursed
consultants' services 
under 
Sanitation
and Sanitation Loans 
Loans
for Ninh Thuan
province's Respective
Part of the Project
(5) Front-end Fee 
115,000 
Amount payable
pursuant to Section
2.03 of this
Agreement in
accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(6) Interest and other 
4,638,000 
Amount payable
charges on the Loan 
pursuant to Sections
accrued on or before 
2.04 and 2.05 of this
the last Payment Date 
Agreement in
immediately preceding 
accordance with
the Closing Date 
Section 2.07 (c) of the
General Conditions
(7) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant
Interest Rate Collar 
to Section 2.08 (c) of
premium 
this Agreement in
accordance with
Section 4.05 (c) of the
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
46,000,000 
140,500,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; or
-16-
(b) under each of Categories (1) - (4) unless the Borrower has furnished to the
Bank evidence acceptable to the Bank that: (i) a Subsidiary Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower, through its Ministry of
Finance, and the respective Project Province; (ii) the counterpart fund
allocation for Project Province's Respective Part of the Project has been
approved by its Provincial People's Committee; and (iii) the roadmap for cost
recovery and wastewater tariff increase for the respective Project City has been
approved by the respective Provincial People's Committee.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2022.
-17-
ANNEX to SCHEDULE 2
National Competitive Bidding Procedures
The procedures to be followed for the procurement of goods, non-consulting services, and
works under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding shall be those
set forth in: (a) Article 20 on Open Bidding of the Borrower's Law on Procurement
No. 43/2013/QH13 dated November 26, 2013 and related provisions necessary to effect
the same; and (b) the Borrower's Decree No. 63/2014/ND-CP dated June 26, 2014
Guiding Implementation of the Law on the Procurement (collectively, "National
Procurement Laws"), subject to the provisions of Section I and Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of
the "Guidelines for Procurement of Goods, Works, and Non-Consulting Services under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits & Grants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011
and revised July 2014 ("the Procurement Guidelines") and the following provisions:
Conflict of Interest
1. 
A bidder shall not have a conflict of interest. Any bidder found to have a conflict
of interest shall be ineligible for award of a contract. The provisions on conflict of interest
as stated under Section I of the Procurement Guidelines shall apply.
Eligibility
2. 
The eligibility of bidders shall be as defined under Section I of the Procurement
Guidelines; accordingly, no bidder or potential bidder shall be declared ineligible for
contracts financed by the Bank for reasons other than those provided in Section I of the
Guidelines. Foreign bidders shall be eligible to participate in bidding under the same
conditions as national bidders. In particular, no domestic preference over foreign bidders
shall be granted to national bidders in bid evaluation, nor shall foreign bidders be asked or
required to form joint ventures with or be subcontractors to national bidders in order to
submit a bid.
3. 
Government-owned enterprises or institutions of the Borrower's country are
eligible to bid in the Borrower's country only if they can establish that they: (i) are legally
and financially autonomous, (ii) operate under commercial law, and (iii) are not dependent
agencies of the Borrower or Sub-Borrower.
Time for Bid Preparation
4. 
The time allowed for the preparation and submission of bids for large and/or
complex packages shall not be less than thirty (30) days from the date of the invitation to
bid or the date of availability of the bidding documents, whichever is later.
-18-
Standard Bidding Documents
5. 
The standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
Bid Opening and Bid Evaluation
6. 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for submission of
bids, regardless of the number of bids received.
7. 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria that shall be
clearly specified in the bidding documents and quantified in monetary terms for evaluation
criteria other than price; merit points shall not be used in bid evaluation. No bid shall be
eliminated from detailed evaluation on the basis of minor, non-substantive deviations. The
evaluation of bidder's qualifications shall be conducted separately subsequent to the
technical and commercial evaluation of the bid.
8. 
A contract shall be awarded, within the period of the validity of bids, to the bidder
who meets the appropriate standards of capability and resources and whose bid has been
determined (i) to be substantially responsive to the bidding documents and (ii) to offer the
lowest evaluated cost. A bidder shall neither be required nor permitted, as a condition for
award, to undertake obligations not specified in the bidding documents or otherwise to
modify the bid as originally submitted.
9. 
No bid shall be rejected on the basis of a comparison with the employer's estimate
and budget ceiling without the Bank's prior written agreement.
Rejection of All Bids and Re-bidding
10. 
Rejection of all bids is justified when there is lack of effective competition, or all
bids are not substantially responsive, or no bidder meets the specified qualification criteria,
or the bid price of the lowest evaluated winning bid is substantially higher than the
Borrower's updated estimated cost or available budget All bids shall not be rejected or
new bids solicited without the Bank's prior written agreement.
Complaints by Bidders and Handling of Complaints
11. 
The Borrower shall implement an effective and independent protest mechanism,
acceptable to the Bank, allowing bidders to protest and have their protests handled in a
timely manner.
-19-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each January 1 and July 1
Beginning July 1, 2027
through July 1, 2045 
2.63%
On January 1, 2046 
2.69%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
-20-
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
-21-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Bank's Safeguards Policies" means the operational policies and procedures for
financing of development projects by the Bank at the date of this Agreement and
relating to Environmental Assessment, Natural Habitats, Pest Management,
Indigenous Peoples (Ethnic Minorities), Physical Cultural Resources, Involuntary
Resettlement, Forests, Safety of Dams, Projects on International Waterways, and
Projects in Disputed Areas, as published under www.WorldBank.ore/opmanual.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
4. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
5. 
"Displaced Persons" means persons who, on account of implementation of the
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts
caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of
shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or
means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to another location;
or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected
areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person.
6. 
"Department of Construction" means the Borrower's department of construction
at the provincial level under a Provincial People's Committee, and any successor
thereto.
7. 
"Department of Finance" means the Borrower's department of finance at the
provincial level under a Provincial People's Committee, and any successor thereto.
8. 
"Department of Planning and Investment" means the Borrower's department of
planning and investment at the provincial level under a Provincial People's
Committee, and any successor thereto.
9. 
"Environmental and Social Impact Assessment" or "ESIA" means the assessment,
acceptable to the Bank, referred to in Section I.D.3 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and approved by the respective Provincial People's Committee in each
Project Province.
-22-
10. 
"Environmental and Social Management Plans" or "ESMPs" means the plans
acceptable to the Bank, referred to in Section I.D.3 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and approved by the respective Provincial People' Committee in each
Project Province; which set forth the specific actions, measures and policies
designed to maximize the benefit of the respective activities under the Project, as
well as eliminate, offset or mitigate any adverse environmental and social impacts,
or reduce such impacts to acceptable levels, along with administrative and
monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said actions, measures
and policies, as said ESMP may be revised from time to time with the prior written
agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any annexes or schedules to such
plan.
11. 
"Financing Agreement" means the agreement between the Borrower and the
Association for the Project, of the same date as this Agreement, as such agreement
may be amended from time to time. 
"Financing Agreement" includes all
appendices, schedules and agreements supplemental to the Financing Agreement.
12. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
13. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
14. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
March 29, 2017, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines
and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
15. 
"Project Cities" means the Borrower's cities of Dong Hoi, Nha Trang, Quy Nhon
and Phan Rang-Thap Cham, or such other city in the Project Provinces agreed with
the Bank; and "Project City" means any of said Project Cities.
16. 
"Project Management Units" and "PMUs" mean, collectively, the Units
established and maintained by the Project Provinces in respect of their Respective
Parts of the Project, in accordance with Section I.A.1 (b) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and any successor thereto; and a "Project Management Unit" and
"PMU" mean any of said Units.
17. 
"Project Operations Manual" or "POM" means, collectively, the project operations
manuals, adopted by each Project Province in accordance with Decision Number
3309/QD-UBD dated December 20, 2016 by Ninh Thuan province, Decision
Number 314/QD-UBND dated February 8, 2017 by Binh Dinh province, Decision
-23-
Number 476/QD-UBD dated February 22, 2017 by Khanh Hoa province and
Decision Number 81 O/QD-UBD dated March 14, 2017 by Quang Binh province,
as referred to in Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which sets forth
guidelines, policies and procedures for the implementation of the Project, as the
same may be amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the
Bank, and such term includes any annexes or schedules or amendments to such
manual.
18. 
"Project Provinces" means the Borrower's provinces of Quang Binh, Binh Dinh,
Khanh Hoa, Ninh Thuan, or such other province as agreed with the Bank, as each
of them is represented by its respective Provincial People's Committee; and "Project
Province" means any of such Project Provinces."
19. 
"Project Steering Committees" or "PSCs" mean, collectively, the Committees
established and maintained by the Project Provinces in respect of their Respective
Parts of the Project, in accordance with the Section I.A.1 (a) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement; and a "Project Steering Committee" means any of said Committees.
20. 
"Provincial People's Committees" means, collectively, the local governments of
the Project Provinces at the Provincial level; and "Provincial People's Committee"
means any one of the Provincial People's Committees in the Project Provinces.
21. 
"Resettlement Action Plans" or "RAPs" means the resettlement plans acceptable
to the Bank, referred to in Section I.D.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, to be
prepared and adopted by the respective Provincial People's Committees at each
Project Province; which set forth principles and procedures governing the
acquisition of land and related assets, and the compensation, resettlement, and
rehabilitation of Displaced Persons in accordance with the guidelines and
procedures set forth in the RPF, as said plans may be revised from time to time
with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any annexes
or schedules to such plan.
22. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the policy framework for
resettlement and land acquisition acceptable to the Bank, referred to in Section
I.D.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, approved by the Prime Minister in
accordance with the Decision Number 1078/TTg-QHQT dated June 22, 2016;
which sets forth principles for formulating entitlements and/or support for affected
households, mitigation measures, grievance redress mechanisms, monitoring and
evaluations of resettlement activities, budget and implementation arrangements,
including capacity building through training, to carry out the acquisition of land
and related assets under the Project and compensation, resettlement, support and
livelihoods rehabilitation of Displaced Persons, and the preparation of RAPs
during the implementation of the Project, as said RPF may be revised from time to
time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any
annexes or schedules to such framework.
-24-
23. 
"Revolving Fund Manual" means the manual, adopted by the Borrower's Ninh
Thuan province, in accordance with its Decision Number 3309/QD-UBND dated
December 30, 2016, as referred to in Section I.A.4 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, which sets forth procedures and requirements for the establishment
and operation of a revolving fund; the fiduciary and other arrangements for said
fund; eligibility criteria for households applying for the Sanitation Loans; and the
terms and conditions of the Sanitation Loans, as the same may be amended from
time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes
any annexes or schedules or amendments to such manual.
24. 
"Safeguards Instruments" means, collectively, the Environmental and Social
Impact Assessments, the Environmental and Social Management Plans, the
Resettlement Policy Framework and the Resettlement Action Plans.
25. 
"Sanitation Loans" means loans made, or to be made by the Provincial People's
Committee of Ninh Thuan province, through the Women's Union, from its
revolving fund to eligible households of the Phan Rang - Thap Cham city to assist
in the financing of sanitation facilities improvements for said households under
Part 1 (e) of the Project in accordance with paragraph 4 of Section I.A of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
26. 
"Respective Part of the Project" means, in respect of each Project Province, Project
activities carried or to be carried out in any of its Project Cities.
27. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section LB of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the
proceeds of the Loan and the Financing available to each Project Province.
28. 
"Women's Union" means the Borrower's social organization established on
October 20, 1950, or any successor thereto.
Section H. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
-25-
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. 
The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any
prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of
a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable
upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any
Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
