OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8768-JO
CFF TF NUMBER TF0A5308
Loan Agreement
(Jordan Emergency Health Project)
between
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated al/V 
' 
, 2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8768-JO
CFF TF NUMBER TF0A5308
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT 
dated 
0' 
dv 13 
, 
2017, 
between 
THE
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank").
WHEREAS, (A) following an international effort to provide development support
to countries most affected by refugees in the Middle East region; and having satisfied itself
as to the feasibility and priority of the Project aimed at maintaining the delivery of health
services to Jordanians and Syrian refugees, as further described in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, the Borrower has requested the Bank to extend a loan to assist in the financing
of the Program;
(B) 
funding from the Concessional Financing Facility was received by the
Bank for purposes of providing concessionality under this Agreement; and
(C) 
under the terms of a Financial Procedures Arrangement with the Trustee
of the Concessional Financing Facility dated August 10, 2016, the Bank has agreed to
provide additional funds to the Borrower (the Concessional Portion of the Loan, as
hereinafter defined) as part of an integrated lending operation under the terms of this
Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE H -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to extend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth
or referred to in this Agreement, a Loan in the amount of fifty million United States
Dollars (USD50,000,000) to assist in financing the project described in Schedule
1 to this Agreement ("Project"), consisting of the following:
-2-
(a) 
a non-concessional portion of the Loan in an amount of thirty-six million
one hundred thousand United States Dollars (USD36,100,000), as such
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement ("Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan"); and
(b) 
a concessional portion of the Loan in an amount of thirteen million nine
hundred thousand United States Dollars (USD13,900,000) ("Concessional
Portion of the Loan").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall
be deposited by the Bank into an account specified by the Borrower and acceptable
to the Bank.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan.
2.04. 
(a) 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one
quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Balance of
the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan.
(b) 
The Commitment Charge shall not be applied to the Concessional Portion
of the Loan.
2.05. 
(a) 
The interest payable by the Borrower on the Non-Concessional Portion of
the Loan for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the Reference
Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, however, that
the interest payable shall in no event be less than zero percent (0%) per
annum; and provided furthermore that, upon a Conversion of all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Non-Concessional Portion of the
Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period
on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Balance of the Non-
Concessional Portion of the Loan remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable
by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e)
of the General Conditions.
(b) 
The Concessional Portion of the Loan shall be made available on a non-
reimbursable basis.
-3-
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan shall be repaid
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan in order to
facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Non-Concessional Portion
of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; and
(ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion
of the principal amount of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice
versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Non-
Concessional Portion of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a
Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable Spread,
or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Non-Concessional
Portion of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based
on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable
to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Non-Concessional
Portion of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the
Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through MOPIC in coordination with
MOH in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
-4-
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE V- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister responsible for planning and
international cooperation.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
Post office Box 555
Amman, 11118
The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Facsimile:
+962-6-464 9341
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
By
Authorized Representative
Name: IHAD 
A/A 
ICKORY
Title: tI,/WS7e.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: A&vr"jel" 
Bgg-,q5vi
Title: ACM-W 
&Vr. 
/P ~StW
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower in maintaining the delivery
of primary and secondary health services to poor uninsured Jordanians and Syrian refugees
at MOH facilities.
The Project consists of the following parts:
1 .
Results-based financing to Deliver Health Care Services at Primary and
Secondary Health Care Facilities of MOH for the Target Population
1.1 
Results-based financing for the delivery of primary health care services to
the Target Population, through the financing of Health Care Service
Delivery Costs.
1.2 
Results-based financing for the delivery of secondary health care services
to the Target Population, through the financing of Health Care Service
Delivery Costs.
2. 
Independent Verification and Institutional Capacity Building to Improve
Efficiency of Health Services Delivered
2.1 
Independent Auditing of Financial Statements and Verification of
Expenditures Incurred and Utilization of Services by Project Beneficiaries
Financing the cost of: (a) the EVE to support the Audit Bureau in the
verification of expenditures incurred by MOH for the services utilized by
the Target Population, and to provide capacity building and training to the
Audit Bureau; (b) an independent verification of the services utilized by
the Target Population at MOH facilities; and (c) external audit of the
Financial Statements.
2.2 
Capacity Building to Monitor and Improve Efficiency
Technical assistance and capacity building to strengthen the institutional
capacity of the Borrower's public health entities to analyze and plan
sectoral reforms while building consensus on key priorities for the health
sector to improve efficiency in the medium to long term, through, inter
alia, analytical studies and knowledge sharing on topics including, but not
limited to: (a) health financing and health economics with an emphasis on
costing of services and cost-benefit analysis; (b) fiscal space analysis
including means to improve revenue collection and increase technical and
allocative efficiency; (c) improving digital health information systems to
-7-
improve efficient use of resources for evidence-based policy making; and
(d) gender related barriers to care, including gender based violence, and
present policy recommendations to address any such barriers.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
The Borrower shall be responsible for the overall implementation of the Project
and shall carry out the Project through its MOPIC, in coordination with designated
focal points in its MOH; to this end, the Borrower shall, throughout Project
implementation, ensure that MOPIC and MOH designate and assign staff in
adequate numbers and with qualifications satisfactory to the Bank to be responsible
for Project implementation.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
POM
The Borrower shall adopt, no later than one (1) month after the Effective Date, the
POM, satisfactory to the Bank, and shall ensure that the Project is carried out in
accordance with the POM, and shall ensure that the POM is not amended,
suspended, abrogated, or repealed and that no provision of the POM is waived,
without prior approval of the Bank.
D. 
Expenditure Verification and Utilization Verification for Part 1 of the Project
1 .
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
cause the Audit Bureau to be responsible to conduct the Expenditure
Verifications;
(b) 
hire, no later than one (1) month after the Effective Date, and thereafter
maintain, throughout Project implementation, the EVE, to support the
Audit Bureau in conducting the Expenditure Verifications in accordance
with the provisions set forth in the POM; and
(c) 
furnish: (a) the first Expenditure Verification to the Bank no later than six
(6) months after the Advance is made under Category 1; and (b) the second
Expenditure Verification to the Bank no later than six (6) months after the
Advance is made under Category 2.
-9-
2. 
The Borrower shall hire, no later than one (1) month after the Effective Date, and
shall thereafter maintain, throughout Project implementation, the UVE, to conduct
the Utilization Verification. The Borrower shall furnish: (a) the first Utilization
Verification Audit no later than six (6) months after the Advance under Category
1 is made; and (b) the second Utilization Verification no later than six (6) months
after the Advance is made under Category 2.
3. 
The Borrower shall, throughout the implementation of the Project, take all
necessary measures required to enable the EVE and UVE to visit any facilities and
sites, and inspect all relevant documents and systems, for purposes of carrying out
activities necessary for: (a) in the case of the UVE, the preparation of the
Utilization Verifications; and (b) in the case of the EVE, the support for the
preparation of the Expenditure Verifications.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to
the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by
such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1 .
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of
each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering
the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Such audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the entire period during which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made. The audited Financial Statements for such period
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such
period.
-10-
Section III. 
Procurement
All goods, non-consulting services and consulting services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance
with the requirements set forth or referred to in the Procurement Regulations and
the provisions of the Procurement Plan.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"Disbursement Guidelines for Investment Project Financing" dated February
2017, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
-11-
Category 
Amount of the 
Amount of the 
Percentage of
Non-Concessional 
Concessional 
Expenditures
Portion of the 
Portion of the 
to be financed
Loan Allocated 
Loan Allocated 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(expressed in 
(expressed in
USD) 
USD)
(1) Health Care Service 
14,440,000 
5,560,000 
100%
Delivery Costs for
the Agreed Period
(2) Health Care 
20,216,000 
7,784,000 
100%
Service Delivery
Costs for the
Agreed Period
(3) Goods, non- 
1,353,750 
556,000 
100%
consulting services,
and consulting
services and
Training for Part 2
of the Project
(4) Front-end Fee 
90,250 
Amount payable
pursuant to Section
2.03 of this
Agreement in
accordance with
Section 2.07(b) of
the General
Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
36,100,000 
13,900,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
from the Loan Account unless each withdrawal is made on a pari passu
basis and at a 72.20%:27.80% ratio between the amount of the Non-
Concessional Portion of the Loan allocated and the amount of the
Concessional Portion of the Loan allocated.
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $20,000,000 may be
made for payments made prior to this date but on or after June 29, 2016,
for Eligible Expenditures under Category (1); or
-12-
(c) 
under Category (1) and Category (2), unless the Bank has received
satisfactory evidence showing that health care services have been
delivered to the Target Population during the applicable Agreed Period, to
be confirmed by: (a) an Expenditure Verification, satisfactory to the Bank,
confirming the amount of Health Care Service Delivery Costs to be
reimbursed; and (b) a Utilization Verification, satisfactory to the Bank,
confirming the utilization of health care services by the Target Population
during the applicable Agreed Period
2. 
If, at any time, the Bank determines that any portion of the amounts disbursed by the
Bank to the Borrower under Category (1) or Category (2) was made for reimbursement
of expenditures which are not eligible, the Borrower shall promptly refund any such
amount to the Bank as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
3. 
The Closing Date is June 29, 2019.
-13-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Non-
Concessional Portion of the Loan and the percentage of the total principal amount
of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Non-Concessional Portion of
the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the
principal amount of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan
as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each
Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to
deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a
Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning May 15, 2022, 
1.64%
through November 15, 2051
On May 15, 2052 
1.60%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan have not been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Non-
Concessional Portion of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Non-Concessional Portion of the
Loan have been withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the
Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional
Portion of the Loan as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
-14-
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan withdrawn within
two calendar months prior to any Principal Payment Date shall, for the
purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable on any
Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall
be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Balance of the Non-
Concessional Portion of the Loan to an Approved Currency, the amount so
converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal Payment
Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge
Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the
Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan is
denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall
apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-15-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Advance" means an advance payment made from the Loan Account, using the
Advance payment method described in the Disbursement Guidelines, and to be
documented within the time period set forth in the additional instructions referred
to in Section IV.A. 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006, and revised in January 2011 and as
of July 1, 2016.
3. 
"Agreed Period" means the time period during which health care services were
delivered to the Target Population and Health Care Service Delivery Costs to be
reimbursed under the Project were paid by MOH, as such time period shall be
agreed by the Bank for each Category (1) and Category (2).
4. 
"Audit Bureau" means the Borrower's national audit agency established pursuant
to Law No. 28 of 1952.
5. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
6. 
"Concessional Financing Facility" and "CFF" each means the financing facility
established with a focus on providing concessional financing to middle income
countries most affected by the presence of large numbers of refugees, with an
initial focus on the Syrian refugee crisis as it impacts Jordan and Lebanon, and
referred to in the Preamble to this Agreement.
7. 
"Concessional Portion of the Loan" means the amount of the Loan referred to in
Section 2.01(b) of this Agreement; which has been contributed for the Project from
the CFF on grant basis.
8. 
"Expenditure Verification" means, for Part 1 of the Project, a financial audit of
expenditures paid by MOH for the services utilized by the Target Population
during the applicable Agreed Period in order to confirm the eligibility of the Health
Care Service Delivery Costs.
9. 
"EVE" means an independent third party auditor, satisfactory to the Bank, hired
under the Project to support the Audit Bureau in conducting the Expenditure
Verification.
-16-
10. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
11. 
"Health Care Service Delivery Costs" means selected costs of MOH for providing
primary and secondary health care services, agreed with the Bank, consisting of
non-medical recurrent expenditures including salaries of staff at MOH health
facilities; and operating costs of MOH health facilities including rental and utilities
(such as water, electricity and fuel) (and excluding medical items such as vaccines,
pharmaceuticals, medical equipment and consumables).
12. 
"Loan" means the aggregate of the Concessional Portion of the Loan and the Non-
Concessional Portion of the Loan as set forth in Section 2.01 of this Agreement.
13. 
"MOH" means the Borrower's ministry in charge of health.
14. 
"MOI Cards" means a Ministry of the Interior Service Card issued by the
Borrower's Ministry of Interior (or any successor thereto).
15. 
"MOPIC" means the Borrower's ministry in charge of planning and international
cooperation.
16. 
"MOSD" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for social development.
17. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
May 16, 2017, and provided for under Section IV of the Procurement Regulations,
as the same may be updated from time to time in agreement with the Bank.
18. 
"Procurement Regulations" means the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for
Borrowers under Investment Project Financing", dated July 1, 2016.
19. 
"POM" means the project operations manual for the Project, to be adopted by the
Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, and referred to in Section I.C. of Schedule
2 to this Agreement, describing and setting forth procedures for implementation of
the Project and institutional arrangements, consistent with the provisions of this
Agreement and including, among other things, the fiduciary, technical and
operational aspects and procedures for implementation of the Project, including
the financial management procedures, procurement procedures, monitoring and
evaluation arrangements, 
verification 
arrangements, 
other fiduciary and
administrative arrangements, as the same may be amended from time to time by
agreement with the Bank.
20. 
"Target Population" means: (a) Syrian refugees who have been issued with MOI
Cards; and (b) Jordanians who: (i) do not have health insurance; and (ii) (A) who
-17-
are classified as 'poor' according to MOSD's database; or (B) whose copayment
for treatment is covered by the Borrower's Royal Court due to inability to pay.
21. 
"Training" means costs incurred by the Borrower on account of approved
workshops, and training of Borrower personnel involved in implementation of the
Project, including study tours, travel and subsistence costs for training participants,
costs associated with securing the services of trainers, rental of training facilities,
preparation and reproduction of training materials, and other costs directly related
to course preparation and implementation, all on the basis of budgets acceptable to
the Bank.
22. 
"Utilization Verification" means, for Part 1 of the Project, an independent
verification of the reported services utilized by the Target Population at primary
and secondary MOH healthcare facilities during the applicable Agreed Period, in
the form of a formal report on the total number of outpatient and inpatient services
provided to the Target Population, and produced by the UVE.
23. 
"UVE" means the independent utilization verification entity, satisfactory to the
Bank, hired under the Project to conduct the Utilization Verification.
Section H. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1 .
Wherever used throughout the General Conditions, the term "Loan Payment" is
modified to read "Payment of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan".
Furthermore, wherever used in Sections 3.02 to 3.08; Section 3.10; Section 4.01;
Section 4.02 to 4.05 (including the Title); and Section 9.05, the term "the Loan" is
modified to read "the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan"; the term
"Unwithdrawn Loan Balance" is modified to read "Unwithdrawn Balance of the
Non-Concessional Portion ofthe Loan"; and the term "Withdrawn Loan Balance"
is modified to read "Withdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the
Loan".
2. 
In Section 2.07, Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee
and Interest, the term "the Loan" in paragraph (a) and the term "the Loan" after
"other charges on" in paragraph (c) of, is deleted and replaced with "the Non-
Concessional Portion of the Loan".
3. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
4. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
-18-
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Non-Concessional
Portion of the Loan at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan at the
rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of
the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each
Payment Date."
5. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth above.
6. 
Wherever used in the following definitions of the terms "Conversion"; "Currency
Conversion"; "Default Interest Period"; "Default Interest Rate"; "Default Variable
Rate"; "Fixed Rate"; "Fixed Reference Rate"; "Fixed Spread"; "Interest Rate
Cap"; "Interest Rate Conversion"; "Principal Payment Date"; "Reference Rate
Reset Date"; "Screen Rate"; "Variable Rate"; "Variable Spread"; "Variable Spread
Fixing Charge"; the term "the Loan" is modified to read "the Non-Concessional
Portion of the Loan"; the term "Unwithdrawn Loan Balance" is modified to read
"the Unwithdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan"; and the
term "Withdrawn Loan Balance" is modified to read "Withdrawn Balance of the
Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan".
7. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
8. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
9. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any
-19-
prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of
a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable
upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any
Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
10. 
A new paragraph 73 with the following definition of "Non-Concessional Portion
of the Loan" is added to the Appendix, and the remaining paragraphs are
renumbered accordingly:
"73. 
"Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan" means portion of the Loan
provided to the Borrower on non-concessional terms in the Loan Agreement."
11. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
12. 
In the renumbered paragraph 94 (originally paragraph 92) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Unwithdrawn Loan Balance" is modified to read as follows:
"94. 
"Unwithdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan"
means the amount of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan remaining
unwithdrawn from the Loan Account from time to time."
13. 
In the renumbered paragraph 98 (originally paragraph 96) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Withdrawn Loan Balance" is modified to read as follows:
"98. 
"Withdrawn Loan Balance" means the amounts of the: (i) Non-
Concessional Portion of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account and
outstanding from time to time; plus (ii) Concessional Portion of the Loan
withdrawn from the Loan Account from time to time."
14. 
A new paragraph 99 with the following definition of "Withdrawn Balance of the
Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan" is added to the Appendix, and the
remaining paragraphs are renumbered accordingly:
"99. 
"Withdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan" means
the amounts of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan withdrawn from the
Loan Account and outstanding from time to time."
