OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8714-ID
Loan Agreement
(Regional Infrastructure Development Fund Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
M C, 
12 
2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
2 of 21 
Loan 8714-ID
LOAN NUMBER 8714-ID
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
Mct 
12 
, 2017, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
("Bank").
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the
Project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project"), has requested the Bank to extend a loan
to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank ("AIIB") ("Co-
financier"), to provide additional assistance towards the financing of the Project, and the Co-financier
intends to make available to the Borrower a loan for such purpose in an amount of one hundred million
United States Dollars (USD 100,000,000) ("AIIB Co-financing"), pursuant to the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Co-financier ("AIIB Co-financing Agreement"); and
(C) PT Sarana Multi Infrastruktur (PERSERO) ("PT SMI") ("Project Implementing Entity")
has requested the Bank, acting as an administrator of grant funds provided by various donors under the
Indonesia Sustainable Urbanization Multi-Donor Trust Fund ("Trust Fund"), to provide a grant for the
financing of the Project, and the Bank intends to make available to PT SMI, for the benefit of the
Borrower, a grant for such purpose in an amount of three million United States Dollars (USD
3,000,000) ("Trust Fund Co-financing"), pursuant to the agreement to be entered into between PT SMI
and the Bank ("Trust Fund Co-financing Agreement");
NOW THEREFORE, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an integral
part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have the
meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million United States Dollars (USD
100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to
assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
3 of 21 
Loan 8714-ID
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than sixty
days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, however, that the
interest payable shall in no event be less than zero percent (0%) per annum; and provided, that
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid
when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable
by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the terms
of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of the Loan
Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis
applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all or any portion
of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate
based on a Reference Rate and the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed
Reference Rate and the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted by
the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General Conditions, and
shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General
Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
4 of 21 
Loan 8714-ID
2.09. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit (as said
terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of this Section), the Borrower
shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of one half of one percent (0.5%) per
annum of the Allocated Excess Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i)
of this Section) for each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if
any) shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during which the
Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit, the product of: (A) the
total amount of said excess; and (B) the ratio of all (or, if the Bank so
determines, a portion) of the Loan to the aggregate amount of all (or the
equivalent portions) of the loans made by the Bank to the Borrower and to other
borrowers guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an exposure
surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined from time to time
by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the Bank's financial
exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded, would subject the Loan to the
Exposure Surcharge, as determined from time to time by the Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total financial exposure
to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project Implementing Entity (PT SMI)
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the Project
Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as the
Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project is
carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
either of the parties to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have failed to perform any
of its obligations thereunder; or
(b) 
PT SMI's Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so
as to affect materially and adversely the ability of PT SMI to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement; or
5 of 21 
Loan 8714-ID
(c) 
any of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the Operations Manual shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the carrying out of the Project.
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following: any event specified in Section
4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 60 days after notice of the event
has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -EFFECTIVENESS; 
TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The Subsidiary Loan Agreement, acceptable to the Bank, has been executed and
delivered on behalf of the Borrower and PT SMI and has become effective and binding
upon such parties in accordance with their respective terms, subject only to the
effectiveness of this Agreement.
(b) 
The Co-financing Agreements have been executed and delivered and all conditions
precedent to their effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
under the Co-financing Agreements (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement)
have been fulfilled.
(c) 
The procedures to intercept the fiscal transfers to subnational governments have been
established by the Borrower.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following: The Subsidiary Loan Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and PT SMI and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and PT SMI in accordance with its terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Directorate General of Budget Financing and Risk Management
Gedung Frans Seda
Jalan DR. Wahidin Raya No. 1
Jakarta 10710, Indonesia
Facsimile:
+62-21-381-2859
6 of 21 
Loan 8714-ID
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Facsimile:
1-202-477-6391
AGREED at Jakarta, Indonesia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 12oBf RT 
PAYeAHAN
Title: 
FNANCIN6 ANO RISK MANA6EMENT
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
A uthor* 
ept 
ntatv
Name:
Title:
7 of 21 
Loan 8714-ID
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to increase access to infrastructure finance at the subnational
level through a financially sustainable financial intermediary.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. 
Capital Support for RIDF
Providing loans to Participating Subnational Governments in Indonesia for selected
infrastructure Sub-projects.
Part 2. 
RIDF Project Development Facility
Providing support for subnational governments in carrying out Sub-project identification and
preparation, including, but not limited to, feasibility studies, detailed engineering designs,
environmental and social safeguard assessment, advisory services on financial management
and procurement, and training.
8 of 21 
Loan 8714-ID
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall cause PT SMI to:
(a) 
ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with, the Operations Manual,
acceptable to the Bank, which Operations Manual shall include at all times:
(i) reporting requirements, financial management procedures and audit procedures; (ii)
procurement 
procedures 
and 
standard 
procurement 
documentation; 
(iii) 
the
Environmental 
and Social Management Framework and the procedures 
and
arrangements for environmental and social safeguard management; (iv) arrangements
and procedures for identifying, selecting, implementing and monitoring and evaluating
Sub-projects; (v) terms and conditions for Sub-project Agreements; (vi) Project
performance indicators; and (vii) Project monitoring and evaluation arrangements;
(b) 
not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provisions of the Operations Manual
without the prior written agreement of the Borrower and the Bank; and
(c) 
ensure that the Operations Manual is applied in the carrying out of Sub-projects.
2. 
In the event of any conflict between the arrangements and procedures set out in the Operations
Manual and the provisions of this Agreement the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
3. 
No later than September 30, 2017, the Borrower shall establish the arrangements, satisfactory
to the Bank, for the management of the Contingency Fund at the Ministry of Finance.
B. 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement
1 .
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the entire proceeds of the
Loan available to PT SMI under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and PT
SMI, under terms and conditions approved by the Bank, which shall include the following:
(a) 
the principal amount of the Loan made available under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
("Subsidiary Loan") shall be denominated and repayable in Rupiah;
(b) 
the interest payable on the principal amount withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time shall be at a rate not greater than the prevailing coupon rate of the Borrower's
twenty-year bond of the benchmark series ("SUN");
(c) 
repayable over a period not exceeding 10 years from the date of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, inclusive of a grace period not exceeding 5 years;
9 of 21 
Loan 8714-ID
(d) 
PT SMI shall: (i) carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with appropriate technical, economic, financial, managerial, environmental
and social standards and practices; including in accordance with the provisions of this
Agreement, the Project Agreement, the Operations Manual, and the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines; and (ii) provide, promptly as needed, the resources required for such
purpose;
(e) 
PT SMI shall: (i) maintain a financial management system and prepare financial
statements for the Project in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards
acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations, resources
and expenditures related to the Project; (ii) retain all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the
Project until at least the later of one (1) year after the Borrower and the Bank have
received the audited financial statements covering the period during which the last
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, and two (2) years after the Closing Date;
(iii) prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank interim unaudited financial
reports for the Project as provided for in Section II.B of this Schedule; and (iv) have
its records, accounts and financial statements for the Project audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, and promptly furnish the statements as so
audited to the Borrower and the Bank, but in any event not later than six (6) months
after the end of the Borrower's fiscal year;
(f) 
PT SMI shall ensure that any goods, works and/or services to be financed out of the
Loan for the Project are procured in accordance with the provisions of Section III of
this Schedule;
(g) 
PT SMI shall enable the Borrower and the Bank to inspect the Project, with reasonable
prior notice, its operation and any relevant records and documents;
(h) 
PT SMI shall permit the Bank to make the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and all financial
statements audited pursuant to paragraph (e) above available to the public in
accordance with the Bank's policies on access to information;
(i) 
PT SMI shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the
Operations Manual, the progress of the Project and the achievement of the Project's
objective;
(j) 
PT SMI shall prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such information
as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing;
(k) 
the Borrower shall have the right to suspend or terminate the right of PT SMI to use
the proceeds of the Financing, or obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount of the
Loan then withdrawn, upon PT SMI's failure to perform any of its obligations under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
10 of 21 
Loan 8714-ID
(1) 
a provision stipulating that, in case of conflict between any of the provisions of the
Subsidiary Agreement or the Operations Manual, on the one hand, and the provisions
of this Agreement and the Project Agreement, on the other, the provisions of this
Agreement and the Project Agreement shall prevail.
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner
as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any of its provisions.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D. 
Sub-projects
The Borrower shall cause PT SMI to provide Sub-project Loans in accordance with eligibility
criteria and procedures acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the Project Agreement and the
Operations Manual.
E. 
Safeguards
The Borrower shall take, and shall cause PT SMI to take, all measures necessary to comply
with, or all measures necessary to enable PT SMI to comply with, the provisions of Section
I.D of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1 .
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on
the basis of indicators set forth in the Operations Manual. Each Project Report shall cover the
period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45)
days after the end of the period covered by such report.
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the execution of the
Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be furnished to the Bank not
later than five months after the Closing Date.
3. 
No later than December 31, 2018, the Borrower shall, in conjunction with the Bank, carry out
a mid-term review of the Project ("Mid-term Review"), covering the progress achieved in the
implementation of the Project. To this end, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
not less than three (3) months prior to the beginning of the Mid-term Review, a report
integrating the results of the Project's monitoring and evaluation activities, on the progress
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of such report,
and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project
11 of 21 
Loan 8714-ID
and the achievement of the objective of the Project during the period following such date.
Following the Mid-term Review, the Borrower shall act promptly and diligently in order to
take, or cause to be taken, any corrective action deemed necessary by the Bank to remedy any
shortcoming noted in the carrying out of the Project in furtherance of the objective of the
Project.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
I. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall cause PT
SMI to prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than forty-five
(45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the
Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause PT SMI to have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with
the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial
Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after
the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods and Works. All goods and works required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to the
corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the Procurement Guidelines.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International
Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following methods, other than
International Competitive Bidding, may be used for procurement of goods and works for those
contracts which meet the conditions and thresholds for use of such methods as specified in the
Operations Manual: (a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set
out in the Annex to this Schedule; and (b) Shopping.
12 of 21 
Loan 8714-ID
C. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
All contracts may be subject to Post Review by the Bank based on the procurement review
carried by PT SMI.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
I. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of
Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines
for Investment Project Financing" dated January 2017, as revised from time to time by the
Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance
Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each
Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) 
financed
(inclusive Taxes)
Works and goods for Part 1 of the 
100,000,000 
100% of Bank Share of
Project 
Total Lending
TOTAL AMOUNT 
100,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end
Fee, or
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2020.
13 of 21 
Loan 8714-ID
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
National Competitive Bidding: Modifications to Procedures
The procedures applicable to the procurement of goods, works, and non-consulting services under
contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding shall be those of the Pelelangan Umum
(Public Tendering) and Pemilihan Langsung / Pelelangan Sederhana (Simplified Tendering) methods
as set forth in the Borrower's Presidential Regulation No. 54/2010 and its subsequent amendments as
of January 16, 2015, with the modifications set out below in order to ensure economy, efficiency,
transparency, and broad consistency with the provisions of Section I of the Procurement Guidelines,
pursuant to paragraph 3.3 of said Guidelines. 
The Pemilihan Langsung / Pelelangan Sederhana
method shall apply to such procurement up to the financial thresholds specified in said Regulation. In
the event of a conflict between the Borrower's procedures and these modifications, the latter shall
govern.
1. 
Procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard bidding documents acceptable to the
Borrower and the Bank. 
The provisions of Section 1.16 (Fraud and Corruption) of the
Procurement Guidelines shall apply, and each bidding document and contract financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan shall include provisions on matters pertaining to fraud and corruption
as defined in paragraph 1.16(a) of said Guidelines and the contract provisions set out in
paragraph 1.16(e) of said Guidelines.
2. 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding. If a registration process is required, a
foreign firm determined to be the lowest evaluated responsive bidder shall be given reasonable
time for registration. Foreign bidders shall not be required to form a joint venture or sub-
contract part of the supply of goods, non-consulting services, and works as a condition for
submitting bids or the award of the contract. Bidding documents shall be made available to all
international bidders.
3. 
No preference of any kind shall be given to any bidders.
4. 
Under the Pelelangan Umum method, bidders shall be allowed at least twenty-one (21) days
from the date of the invitation to bid or the date of availability of bidding documents, whichever
is later, to prepare and submit bids; this period shall be ten (10) days under the Pemilihan
Langsung / Pelelangan Sederhana method.
5. 
Bids invited under the Pelelangan Unmum method shall be submitted in one (1) envelope and
evaluated using post-qualification.
6. 
No bidder shall be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with the owner's estimate and
budget ceiling without the Bank's prior written concurrence.
7. 
Bid security, if it is required by the bidding documents, at the bidder's option, shall be in the
form of a letter of credit or guarantee from a reputable bank or other reputable financial
institution and shall without exception follow the form provided for this purpose in the bidding
documents.
14 of 21 
Loan 8714-ID
8. 
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Bank's prior written
concurrence.
9. 
Government-owned enterprises in Indonesia shall be eligible to participate provided that they
comply with paragraph 1.10(b) of the Procurement Guidelines.
15 of 21 
Loan 8714-ID
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of
the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date ("Installment
Share"). 
If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of the first Principal Payment Date, by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment
Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in
paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
March 15, 2022 
8.93 %
September 15, 2022 
9.15%
March 15, 2023 
9.38%
September 15, 2023 
9.62 %
March 15, 2024 
9.86%
September 15, 2024 
10.10%
March 15, 2025 
10.36%
September 15, 2025 
10.62%
March 15, 2026 
10.88%
September 15, 2026 
11.10%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment
Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as of
such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on each
Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts determined
by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the
numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph
I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share") and
the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original Installment Shares for
Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, such amounts repayable to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
16 of 21 
Loan 8714-ID
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on
the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be
repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal
Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any time
the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on or after
the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no
longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal Payment
Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying
such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i)
the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by
the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion, or (ii) if the Bank
so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of
the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions
of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so
as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
17 of 21 
Loan 8714-ID
APPENDIX
Section 1. 
Definitions
1. 
"Access Restriction" means a process that causes any local community residing in and/or near
a Project site, a restriction or a loss of access to land and natural resources in a legally
designated park or protected area, partially or wholly, temporarily or permanently.
2. 
"AIIB Co-financing" means, for purposes of paragraph 16 of the Appendix to the General
Conditions, an amount of one hundred million United States Dollars (USD 100,000,000) to be
provided by the Co-financier to assist in financing the Project.
3. 
"AIIB Co-financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and the Co-financier providing for the AIIB Co-financing.
4. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and
Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated October
15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
5. 
"Bank Share" means the percentage agreed from time to time between the Bank and the Co-
financier, and reflected in the additional instruction specified by the Bank pursuant to Section
IV.A. 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
6. 
"Bank's Safeguard Policies" means the Bank's operational policies and procedures set forth in
the World Bank's Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04, 4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.36,
4.37, 7.50 and 7.60 published at www.worldbank.org/opmanual.
7. 
"Co-financier" means the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, a multilateral financial
institution whose purpose is to foster sustainable economic development, create wealth and
improve infrastructure connectivity in Asia by investing in infrastructure and other productive
sectors.
8. 
"Co-financing Agreements" means, collectively, the AIIB Co-financing Agreement and the
Trust Fund Co-financing Agreement.
9. 
"Contingency Fund" means a fund to be established by the Ministry of Finance for the purpose
of providing the repayment guarantee to PT SMI in the case of Participating Subnational
Government's default and to be replenished through intercepted intergovernmental transfers to
the relevant Participating Subnational Government in default.
10. 
"Displaced Person" means a person who, on account of the execution of the Sub-project, has
experienced or would experience a direct economic and social impacts caused by: (a) the
involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or
access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such
person must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally
designated parks and protected areas resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such
person, and "Displaced Persons" means, collectively, all such Displace Persons.
18 of 21 
Loan 8714-ID
11. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" means the environmental and social
safeguards management framework dated November 2, 2016 and disclosed on November 3,
2016, giving details of a program of actions, measures and policies designed to maximize the
benefits accruing under the Project, avoid or mitigate any adverse impacts arising thereunder,
or, if such adverse impacts cannot be avoided altogether, reduce such impacts to acceptable
levels, as the same may be updated from time to time in agreement with the Bank, such
framework incorporating among others, Resettlement Plan(s), Indigenous Peoples Plan(s),
Environmental Management Plan(s) and Plan(s) of Action.
12. 
"Environmental Management Plan" means each plan adopted for the purposes of a Sub-project,
acceptable to the Bank and consistent with the Environmental and Social Management
Framework, and giving details of the agreed actions and policies designed to maximize the
benefits of the Sub-project, eliminate or offset any adverse environmental impacts, or reduce
such impacts to acceptable levels, along with the procedural and institutional measures needed
to implement such actions and policies.
13. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
14. 
"Indigenous Peoples" means those social groups in the Borrower's territory that have a distinct,
vulnerable, social and cultural identity, and that possess the following characteristics in varying
degrees: (a) self-identification as members of a distinct indigenous cultural group and
recognition of this identity by others; (b) collective attachment to geographically distinct
habitats or ancestral territories in the Project area and to the natural resources in these habitats
and territories; (c) customary cultural, economic, social, or political institutions that are
separate from those of the dominant society and culture; and (d) an indigenous language.
15. 
"Indigenous Peoples Plan" means each plan adopted for the purposes of a Sub-project,
acceptable to the Bank and consistent with the Environmental and Social Management
Framework, and giving details of the agreed measures to: (a) involve Indigenous Peoples,
through a process of free, prior and informed consultations, in the design and implementation
of each Sub-project in location in which such people reside or make their living; (b) ensure that
Indigenous Peoples affected by the Sub-project receive culturally appropriate social and
economic benefits; and (c) when potential adverse effects on Indigenous Peoples are identified,
those adverse effects are avoided, minimized, mitigated or compensated for, in each case in a
manner acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower.
16. 
"Kabupaten" means a regency, a rural administrative division of a Province.
17. 
"Kota" means a city, an urban administrative division of a Province.
18. 
"Ministry of Finance" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for finance, or any successor
thereto.
19 of 21 
Loan 8714-ID
19. 
"Operations Manual" means the Project operations manual, dated January 24, 2017 referred to
in paragraph 2 of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time in agreement with the Bank, and such term includes any schedules to the
Operations Manual.
20. 
"Participating Subnational Government" means a government of a participating Province or
Kota or Kabupaten meeting the eligibility requirements set out in the Operations Manual and
selected by PT SMI to receive financing to carry out a Sub-project, and "Participating
Subnational 
Governments" 
means, 
collectively, 
all 
such 
Participating 
Subnational
Governments.
21. 
"Plan of Action" means each plan adopted for the purposes of a Sub-project in consultation
with affected communities, acceptable to the Bank and consistent with the Environmental and
Social Management Framework, and giving details of the agreed actions and policies designed
to mitigate any adverse impact of Access Restriction or to reduce such impacts to acceptable
levels, along with the procedural and institutional measures needed to implement such actions
and policies.
22. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-
consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
23. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means PT SMI (as hereinafter defined), or any successor
thereto.
24. 
"Province" means an administrative division of the Borrower.
25. 
"PT Sarana Multi Infrastruktur (Persero)" or "PT SMI" means a state-owned enterprise
incorporated and established under the Borrower's Government Regulation 66/2007, as
amended through the Borrower's Government Regulation 75/2008, or any successor thereto.
26. 
"PT SMI's Legislation" means: (i) the Borrower's Government Regulation 66/2007 as
amended by the Borrower's Government Regulation 75/2008 on the capital participation of the
Borrower for the establishment of PT SMI; (ii) the Borrower's Government Regulation
75/2008 on the establishment of State-owned infrastructure financing company; (iii) the
Borrower's Presidential Regulation 9/2009 on financial institutions; (iv) Borrower's Minister
of Finance Regulation 100/PMK.010/2009 on infrastructure financing company; and their
implementing regulations.
27. 
"Resettlement Plan" means each plan adopted for the purposes of a Sub-project, acceptable to
the Bank and consistent with the Environmental and Social Management Framework, and
giving details of agreed provisions for compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement assistance
to Displaced Persons under the Sub-project, along with procedural and institutional measures
needed to implement such agreed provisions, acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower.
28. 
"RIDF" or "Regional Infrastructure Development Fund" means a business line of PT SMI that
provides loans to subnational governments.
20 of 21 
Loan 8714-ID
29. 
"Sub-project" means a set of activities to be financed by PT SMI and carried out by a
Participating Subnational Government in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in
this Agreement and included in the Operations Manual and the relevant Sub-project
Agreement, and "Sub-projects" means, collectively, all such Sub-projects.
30. 
"Sub-project Agreement" means each agreement to be entered into between PT SMI and a
Participating Subnational Government for the purposes of implementing a Sub-project on the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and included in the Operations Manual, and
"Sub-project Agreements" means, collectively, all such Sub-project Agreements.
31. 
"Sub-project Loan" means each loan made available under the Sub-project Agreement, and
"Sub-project Loans" means, collectively, all such Sub-project Loans.
32. 
"Subsidiary Loan" means the loan made available under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
33. 
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available
to the PT SMI.
34. 
"Total Lending" means the amount constituted by the AIIB Co-financing and the Loan.
35. 
"Trust Fund" means the Indonesia Sustainable Urbanization Multi-Donor Trust Fund
administered by the Bank for the purposes of the Project.
36. 
"Trust Fund Co-financing" means, for purposes of paragraph 16 of the Appendix to the General
Conditions, an amount of three million United States Dollars (USD 3,000,000) to be provided
by the Trust Fund to assist in financing the Project.
37. 
"Trust Fund Co-financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Bank providing for the Trust Fund Co-financing.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers are
modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee: Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
21 of 21 
Loan 8714-ID
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). 
The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan Agreement
to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan
Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on
each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs are
modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition of
"Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
