OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8646-PK
Loan Agreement
(Additional Financing for the Tarbela Fourth Extension Hydropower Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
vkA 
, 
1:
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
cU-v1 
% 9 
-
, between the ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
OF PAKISTAN ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing additional financing for activities related
to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Borrower and the Bank
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to 
in 
ihis Agreement, 
the 
amount 
of three 
hundred 
and ninety 
million
Dollars ($390,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement
("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement
("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
(a) The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance. (b) The Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account on each of the Payment Dates,
and pay to itself the amount required to pay the Commitment Charge During Construction
accrued and payable as at such date, subject to the limit specified in Category 10 of the
table set forth in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
-2-
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e)
of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest
rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the
Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall cause the Project (except Part B.3) to be carried out by WAPDA and Part
B.3 of the Project to be carried out by NTDC, in each case in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and their Respective Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project
is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
The WAPDA Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely WAPDA's ability to perform any
of its obligations under its Respective Project Agreement.
(b) 
The NTDC Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely NTDC's ability to perform any of
its obligations under its Respective Project Agreement.
(c) 
An event of suspension has occurred under the Co-financing Agreement and is
continuing after its cure period, if any, under the Co-financing Agreement, or after
the Co-financier's notice to the Borrower that such event of suspension has
occurred, if there is no cure period.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that any of the
events specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and such event continues for a
period of at least 60 days after written notice has been served by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consists of the following:
(a) 
Each of the Subsidiary Agreements has been executed on behalf of the Borrower
and the relevant Project Implementing Entities;
(b) 
The Co-financing Agreement has been signed in form and substance acceptable to
the Bank and the Co-financier has confirmed in writing that the conditions for a
first disbursement under the Co-financing Agreement have been satisfied, except
those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that each of the Subsidiary
Agreements has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the relevant Project
Implementing Entities and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the relevant Project
Implementing Entities in accordance with its terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary,
Deputy Secretary or Section Officer of the Economic Affairs Division of the Ministry of
Finance, Revenue, Economic Affairs, Statistics and Privatization, each such person acting
individually.
-4-
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Economic Affairs Division
Ministry of Finance, Revenue, Economic Affairs, Statistics and Privatization
Islamabad
Pakistan
Facsimile: 
+92-51-921-8976
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Facsimile: 
+1-202-477-6391
AGREED at 
as of the day and year first above
written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By
Authorized Representative
Name:
Title:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Auth 
ed Representative
Name:
Title:
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to facilitate a sustainable expansion of the Borrower's
electricity generation capacity.
The Project consists of the following parts:
A. 
Construction of Power Houses and Modification to Tunnels
Construction of a power house for the existing Tarbela Dam Tunnel 5 and a penstock to
connect Tunnel 5 to the power units, as well as modification to this tunnel by constructing
a new raised intake.
B. 
Installation of Power Units and Ancillary Equipment
1. 
Provision and installation of turbines, generators, transformers and ancillary
electromechanical equipment for Tunnel 5.
2. 
Provision and installation of transformers and equipment for the switchyard at
Tunnel 5 to connect generation to the transmission line.
3. 
Construction of a new transmission line from Tarbela Dam to the national grid,
including management and implementation of safeguards measures for the
purpose.
C. 
Implementation of Safeguards Measures and Dam Monitoring and Surveillance
1. 
Implementation of the social action plans contained in the Safeguard Documents,
including establishment of commissions for the settlement of legacy claims, the
recruitment of social organizers and legal professionals and settlement of such
claims.
2. 
Implementation of the environmental management plans contained in the
Safeguard 
Documents, 
including 
landscaping, 
tree 
planting, 
fisheries
management, and carrying out of related special studies as needed, and capacity
building of Project staff.
3. 
Strengthening of the dam safety monitoring system and provision of related
equipment for the Tarbela Dam, including upgrading of dam monitoring
instrumentation such as piezometers and extensometers, installation of automatic
data acquisition and logging systems and monitoring system in relation to the delta
and sediment transport, and carrying out of research in relation particularly to
sediment management and delta movements.
-6-
D. 
Construction Supervision, Implementation, and Monitoring and Evaluation
I. 
Provision of expert services to assist in: (a) the construction supervision and
contract management; and (b) Project implementation, including procurement,
contract management, financial management, quality control, and preparation of
bidding documents and designs.
2. 
Provision of consulting services to assist in Project monitoring and evaluation,
including implementation of environmental and social action plans and other
safeguards measures.
E. 
Project Management, Capacity Building, Pilots, and Studies
1. 
Provisions of expert services to assist in Project management activities, including
audits.
2. 
(a) Capacity building of the Project Implementing Entities in Project
implementation and dam and transmission line operation and maintenance;
(b) provision of related technical assistance to Project Implementing Entities; and
(c) independent review of the design, operation and maintenance aspects of the
Project, particularly safety and early warning measures, all through the provision
of expert services to the Project Implementing Entities.
3. 
Design and installation of a pilot for floating solar plant in the Tarbela Dam
reservoir subject to the outcome of the feasibility, environmental, social and other
preparatory studies.
4. 
(a) Carrying out of strategic studies in the hydropower sector and (b) preparation
of future hydropower projects.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional and Contractual Arrangements.
The Borrower shall maintain the institutional and contractual arrangement described in this
Section L.A throughout the period of implementation of the Project:
1. 
Ministry of Water and Power
The Borrower, through MWP, shall provide policy and strategic direction to the Project
Implementing Entities for the carrying out of the Project.
2. 
Project steering committee
(a) 
The Borrower shall maintain a project steering committee ("PSC"), chaired by the
Secretary of MWP, comprised of the Borrower's Secretaries of Planning, Finance,
Economic Affairs Division; the Chairman of WAPDA; the Managing Directors of NTDC
and the National Highway Authority, the Chief Secretary and Additional Chief Secretary
(Development) of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa; the Commissioner of Haripur and Rawalpindi
Divisions, the Deputy Commissioner of Haripur and Attock and associated districts of the
Borrower; and the Project Director WAPDA, who shall serve as the PSC's secretary.
(b) 
The PSC shall provide planning and strategic guidance for the Project implementation, as
well as facilitate inter-agency coordination.
3. 
Actions from the Borrower
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
take all measures required from its part to ensure that the Project Implementing Entities
comply with their obligations set out or referred to in their respective Project Agreement
and Subsidiary Agreement;
(b) 
ensure that the Project is completed in a manner consistent with the requirements of this
Agreement, irrespective of the sources of the financing; and
(c) 
ensure that:
(i) 
no later than tenth (10) months the Effective Date, the Escrow Account Agreement,
shall be amended, in order to (A) provide that CPPAG shall maintain a balance in
the Escrow Account (as defined in the Escrow Account Agreement) equivalent to
a period of billing by WAPDA acceptable to the Bank, not to exceed two (2)
months (the "Escrow Amount"); and (B) to extend its term to a date not earlier
than the Closing Date; and
-8-
(ii) 
throughout the implementation of the Project, the Escrow Amount is maintained
(including through replenishment if all or part of the Escrow Amount is disbursed
in accordance with the provisions of the Escrow Account Agreement or otherwise).
B. 
Subsidiary Agreements
1 .
To facilitate WAPDA's carrying out of its Respective Part of the Project, the Borrower
shall make part of the proceeds of the Loan available to WAPDA under a subsidiary
agreement between the Borrower and WAPDA, under terms and conditions agreed
between the Borrower and the Bank (the "WAPDA Subsidiary Agreement").
2. 
To facilitate the carrying out of its Respective Part of the Project, the Borrower shall make
part of the proceeds of the Loan available to NTDC under a tripartite subsidiary agreement
between the Borrower, NTDC and WAPDA (acting as administrator of the Loan proceeds
on-lent to NTDC), under terms and conditions agreed between the Borrower and the Bank
(the "NTDC Subsidiary Agreement").
3. 
The terms and conditions of each of the Subsidiary Agreements shall include the following:
(a) 
the right of the Project Implementing Entity to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan allocated
to its Respective Part of the Project on behalf of the Borrower. The proceeds so withdrawn
shall be considered to be withdrawn by the Borrower;
(b) 
the obligation of the Project Implementing Entity to: (i) pay to the Borrower an amount
equal to the Front-end Fee and the Commitment Charge, each determined by the Bank
pursuant to Section 2.03 and 2.04 of this Agreement and Section 3.01 of the General
Conditions, in each case on the pro-rata portion of Loan allocated to its Respective Part of
the Project and on-lent under the Respective Subsidiary Agreement; (ii) 'repay the proceeds
of the Loan withdrawn under the Respective Subsidiary Agreement over the period
applicable to the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.07 of, and Schedule 3 to, this Agreement;
(iii) repay the proceeds of the Loan on-lent under its Respective Subsidiary Agreement in
Pakistani Rupees; and (iv) pay an interest on the principal amount of the proceeds of the
Loan on-lent under its Respective Subsidiary Agreement and withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time at the rate agreed between the Borrower, the Project Implementing Entity
and acceptable to the Bank as per the re-lending policies of the Borrower, which rates
(other than those charged in case of default) shall in no case exceed fifteen per centum
(15%) per annum unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and the Bank;
(c) 
the Borrower's and Project Implementing Entities' understandings and arrangements for
the flow of funds, including disbursement protocols, supporting evidence and any reporting
requirements therefor;
(d) 
the obligation of the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the Project in accordance
with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of loan
proceeds other than the Borrower;
(e) 
the obligation of the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the Project in accordance
with the provisions of the Safeguard Documents, and without any right or authority, except
-9-
as the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing, to assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit
to be assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned, or any provision
thereof;
(f) 
the obligation of the Project Implementing Entity to: (i) maintain a financial management
system and prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting
standards satisfactory to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations and
financial condition of the Project Implementing Entity, including the operations, resources,
and expenditures related to the Project; and (ii) have such statements audited by
independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied
auditing standards satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish such audited financial statements
to the Borrower and the Bank in accordance with the provisions of Section II.B.3 of the
Schedule to the Respective Project Agreement and make them publicly available in a
timely fashion and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and
(g) 
the obligation of the Project Implementing Entity to carry out procurement of the goods,
works, and consultants' services required for the Project in accordance with the provisions
of Section m of this Schedule 2, as well as the Attachment to such Schedule, as said
provisions may be amended from time to time and further elaborated in the Procurement
Plan.
(h) 
the Borrower's right to suspend or terminate the Respective Subsidiary Agreement and/or
accelerate the recovery of any outstanding amounts withdrawn thereunder, upon: (i) the
Project Implementing Entity's failure to perform its obligations under its Respective
Subsidiary Agreement and/or its Respective Project Agreement; or (ii) the Bank's
exercising any of the remedies under Article VI of the General Conditions, and/or the
Procurement Guidelines, 
the Consultants Guidelines and/or the Anti-corruption
Guidelines.
4. 
In addition to and notwithstanding the foregoing, the NTDC Subsidiary Agreement shall
include a provision for -the appointment of WAPDA by NTDC as administrator of the
proceeds of the Loan on-lent to NTDC, including WAPDA's right to withdraw the
proceeds of the Loan on behalf of the Borrower and NTDC.
5. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreements in such manner as
to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive either of the Subsidiary Agreements or any of their provisions, nor
consent to any assignment, amendment, abrogation or waiver by any of the Project
Implementing Entities.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
-10-
D. 
Safeguards.
1. 
The Borrower shall cause each of the Project Implementing Entities to ensure that all terms
of reference for any technical assistance or studies carried out under the Project are
consistent with, and pay due attention to, the Bank Policies, as well as the Borrower's own
laws relating to the environment and social aspects relevant to the Project.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause each of the Project Implementing Entities to carry out all
activities of its Respective Part of the Project with due regard to health-safety, social
(including labor), cultural and environmental principles, practices and standards reflected
in the Safeguard Documents, and in each case irrespective of the source of financing for
the particular Project activity.
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure, and cause each of the Project Implementing Entities to ensure,
that prior to commencing any civil works under the Project that require land taking and the
resettlement of Displaced Persons, all resettlement measures set forth in the applicable
Safeguard Documents shall have been fully executed, including the full payment of
compensation prior to displacement and/or the provision of relocation assistance to all
Displaced Persons, as per the entitlements provided in the applicable Safeguard Documents
and irrespective of the source of financing for such activity.
4. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing and subject to compliance with
applicable consultation and public disclosure requirements of the Bank, the Borrower shall
not abrogate, amend, repeal, suspend or waive any provisions of any of the Safeguard
Documents, nor shall it permit any entity participating in the implementation of the Project
to do so.
5. 
Without limitation upon its other reporting obligations under this Agreeient, the Borrower
shall, or shall cause each of the Project Implementing Entities to, regularly collect, compile
and submit to the Bank, on a semi-annual basis, reports on the status of compliance with
the Safeguard Documents, irrespective of the source of financing of the Project activities,
giving details of: (a) measures taken in furtherance of the Safeguard Documents;
(b) conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the smooth
implementation of the Safeguard Documents; and (c) remedial measures taken or required
to be taken to address such conditions.
6. 
The Borrower shall, or shall cause the Project Implementing Entities to, strengthen,
maintain and continue operating throughout the period of Project implementation, the
grievance redress mechanism (the "GRM") established for the Original Project for the
handling of environment- and social- (including labor-) related stakeholder complaints
which may arise out of the implementation of the Project activities.
7. 
In the event that any provision of the Safeguard Documents shall conflict with any
provision under this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail (unless otherwise
expressly agreed by the Bank in writing, and in any case subject to compliance with the
Bank Policies).
-11-
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports and Reviews
1. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall cause each of the Project Implementing Entities to monitor and
evaluate the progress of its Respective Part of the Project and prepare Project Reports in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis
of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1)
calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after
the end of the period covered by such report.
2. 
Semi-Annual Reviews
The Borrower shall review jointly with the Bank and each of the Project Implementing
Entities, no later than one (1) month after the submission of every second Project Report
to the Bank, such report and the one preceding, and thereafter cause each of the Project
Implementing Entities to take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of
the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof, based on the conclusions and
recommendations of such reports and the Bank's views on the matter.
3. 
Annual Reviews
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
carry out jointly with the Bank and each of the Project Implementing Entities, not
later than October 31 in each year, an annual review to assess the status of Project
implementation, as measured against the performance indicators referred to in
Section II.A.1 above. Such review shall include an assessment of the following:
(i) overall progress in implementation; (ii) results of monitoring and evaluation
activities; (iii) progress on procurement and disbursement; (iv) progress on
implementation of safeguards measures; (v) implementation arrangements; and
(vi) need to make any adjustments to the Project and reallocate funds to improve
performance, if any. The annual review after three years of Project implementation
shall be considered as the mid-term review;
(b) 
cause each of the Project Implementing Entities to prepare and furnish to the
Borrower and the Bank, at least one (1) month before such review, a report, in
scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank and integrating the results of the
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to Section II.A. 1 above,
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period
preceding the date of such report and setting out the measures recommended to
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objective
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c) 
review jointly with the Bank and each of the Project Implementing Entities the
report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Part 3 and thereafter cause each of the
-12-
Project Implementing Entities to take all measures required to ensure the efficient
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof, based on
the conclusions and recommendations of such report and the Bank's views on the
matter.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall cause
each of the Project Implementing Entities to prepare and furnish to the Bank, as part of the
Project Report, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause each of the Project Implementing Entities to have its financial
statements for its Respective Part of the Project (collectively, the "Financial Statements")
audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the
Project Implementing Entities, commencing with the fiscal year in which the first
withdrawal was made. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
Section m. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. 
All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to the
corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the Procurement Guidelines, or
Sections II, 111, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures.
-13-
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional
provisions set forth in the Attachment to this Schedule; (b) Shopping; and (c) Direct
Contracting.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality and
Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following methods, other
than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of consultants'
services for those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based
Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; (d) Selection based
on Consultants' 
Qualifications; 
(e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms;
(f) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the
Selection of Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank Disbursement
Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as
made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures
in each Category.
-14-
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Works for Part A of the 
100,000,000 
36%
Project
(2) Goods and works for 
120,000,000 
36%
Parts B.1 
and B.2 of the
Project
(3) 
Goods and works for 
48,000,000 
80%
Parts B.3 of the Project
(4) 
Land and Involuntary 
2,000,000 
100%
Resettlement 
Compensation
for Part B.3 and C.1 of the
Project
(5) Goods and works for Parts 
28,000,000 
100%
C, D, and E of the Project
(6) Consultants' services 
40,000,000 
100%
(including for audits) for the
Project
(7) Training and Incremental 
12,000,000 
100%
Operating Costs for the
Project
(8) Front-end Fee 
975,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(9) Interest During 
27,000,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Construction 
Section 2.07 (c) of the
General Conditions during
the Construction Period
(10) Commitment Charge 
3,500,000 
Amounts payable pursuant to
during Construction 
Section 2.04(a) of this
Agreement, in accordance
with Section 2.04(b) of this
Agreement, during the
Construction Period.
-15-
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(11) 
Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar premium 
Section 2.08(c) of this
Agreement
(12) Unallocated 
8,525,000
TOTAL AMOUNT 
390,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $30,000,000 equivalent may be made for payments made
prior to this date but on or after January 1, 2016 for Eligible Expenditures.
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2022.
-16-
ATTACHIEMENT TO SCHEDULE 2
National Competitive Bidding; Additional Provisions
The procedures applicable to the procurement of goods, works, and non-consulting services
under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding shall be those set out in the
Borrower's applicable rules, with the following additional requirements set forth below in order to
ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with the provisions of Section I
of the Procurement Guidelines, pursuant to paragraph 3.3 of said Guidelines. In the event of a
conflict between the Borrower's procedures and the additional provisions set out below, the latter
shall govern.
(i) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one (1) national newspaper with a
wide circulation, at least thirty (30) days prior to the deadline for the submission
of bids.
(ii) 
Bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who are willing
to pay the required fee.
(iii) 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding, and no preference of any kind
shall be given to national bidders in the bidding process.
(iv) 
Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms.
(v) 
Qualification criteria shall be stated in the bidding documents.
(vi) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for the submission
of bids.
(vii) 
Single bids shall also be evaluated.
(viii) 
Bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an official
estimate without the prior written agreement of the Bank.
(ix) 
Before rejecting all bids and soliciting new bids, the Bank's prior written
agreement shall be obtained.
(x) 
Contracts shall not be awarded on the basis of nationally negotiated rates.
(xi) 
Bids shall be solicited and works contracts awarded on the basis of unit prices and
not on the basis of composite schedule of rates.
(xii) 
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated and qualified bidder.
(xiii) 
Post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any
other bidder.
-17-
(xiv) 
Draft contracts shall be reviewed by the Bank in accordance with Prior Review
procedures.
(xv) 
A firm declared ineligible by the Bank, based on a determination by the Bank that
the firm has engaged in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive, or obstructive
practices in competing for or executing a Bank-financed contract, shall be
ineligible to be awarded a Bank-financed contract during the period of time
determined by the Bank.
(xvi) 
Each contract financed from the proceeds of the Loan shall provide that the
suppliers, contractors, and subcontractors shall permit the Bank, at its request, to
inspect their accounts and records relating to the performance of the contract and
to have said accounts and records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. The
deliberate and material violation by the supplier, contractor, or subcontractor of
such provision may amount to an obstructive practice.
(xvii) 
Borrower-owned enterprises shall be eligible to bid only if they can establish that
they are legally and financially autonomous, operate under commercial law, and
are not a dependent agency of the Borrower.
(xviii) 
The Bank shall declare a firm ineligible, either indefinitely or for a stated period,
to be awarded a contract financed by the Bank if it at any time determines that the
firm has, directly or through an agent, engaged in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive,
coercive, or obstructive practices in competing for or executing a contract financed
by the Bank.
-18-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: 
(a)
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment
Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary,
to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
December 15, 2022 
1.5%
June 15, 2023 
1.5%
December 15, 2023 
1.5%
June 15, 2024 
1.5%
December 15, 2024 
1.5%
June 15, 2025 
1.75%
December 15, 2025 
1.75%
June 15, 2026 
1.75%
December 15, 2026 
1.75%.
June 15, 2027 
3%
December 15, 2027 
3.5%
June 15, 2028 
4%
December 15, 2028 
4%
June 15, 2029 
4%
December 15, 2029 
-/4%
June 15, 2030 
4%
December 15, 2030 
4%
June 15, 2031 
4%
December 15, 2031 
4%
June 15, 2032 
4%
December 15, 2032 
5%
June 15, 2033 
5%
December 15, 2033 
5%
January 15, 2034 
5%
December 15, 2034 
5.5%
June 15, 2035 
5.5%
December 15, 2035 
6%
June 15, 2036 
6%
-19-
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as
of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding
on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall
be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating
to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-20-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"AIIB" means Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank.
2. 
"Annual Work Plan and Budget" has the meaning ascribed to in in Section I.C of the
Schedule to the Respective Project Agreements.
3. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated
October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
4. 
"Bank Policies" means, collectively, but only to the extent that they are applicable to the
Project activities, the operational policies and procedures OP/BP 4.01 (Environmental
Assessment), OP/BP 4.04 (Natural Habitats), OP/BP 4.07 (Water Resources Management),
OP/BP 4.09 (Pest Management), OP/BP 4.10 (Indigenous Peoples), OP/BP 4.11 (Physical
Cultural Resources), OP/BP 4.12 (Involuntary Resettlement), OP/BP 4.36 (Forests), and
OP/BP 4.37 (Safety of Dams) contained in the Bank's Operational Manual which can be
found on the Bank's website at www.worldbank.org.
5. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
6. 
"Claim Settlement Commission" has the meaning ascribed to it in the Original Loan
Agreement, and referred to in Section I.A.2 of the WAPDA Project Agreement.
7. 
"Co-financier" means AIIB.
8. 
"Co-financing" means, for purposes of paragraph 16 of the Appendix to the General
Conditions, an amount equivalent to $300,000,000 to be provided by the Co-financier to
assist in financing the Project.
9. 
"Co-financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and the Co-financier providing for the Co-financing.
10. 
"Commitment Charge during Construction" means the commitment charge accrued during
the Construction Period (as hereinafter defined) and payable on the Loan in accordance
with the terms set forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
11. 
"Common Organization" has the meaning ascribed to it in the Protocol and is referred to
in Section I.A.1 of the Schedule to the WAPDA Project Agreement and to the NTDC
Project Agreement, respectively.
12. 
"Construction Period" means the period commencing on the Effective Date and ending on
the Closing Date, in relation to works under the Project.
-21-
13. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January
2011 (revised July 2014) or, for such consultants employed earlier than the date of this
Agreement as part of the Original Project and also financed from the proceeds of the Loan,
the version of those guidelines applicable at the time of such employment.
14. 
"CPPAG" means Central Power Purchasing Agency Guarantee Limited, the Borrower's
statutory agency responsible for the purchase of hydroelectricity from WAPDA, or any
successor thereto.
15. 
"CPPA" means the Borrower's central power purchasing agency at the time of signature
of the Escrow Account Agreement in accordance with the provisions of the Original Loan
Agreement.
16. 
"CS Consultant" means the consulting firm referred to in Section I.A. 1(c)(i) of the
Schedule to WAPDA Project Agreement.
17. 
"Displaced Persons" means any persons who, on account of the execution of the Project,
has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by: (a) the
involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or
access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such
person must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction or access to legally
designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such
persons.
18. 
"Environmental and Social Management Plan" means the environmental and social
management plan included in the Borrower's and Project Implementing Entities' document
prepared for the Project entitled "Environmental and Social Assessment" and dated
February 2016. The Environmental and Social Management Plan provides directives and
guidance to ensure transparent and effective monitoring, prevention, minimization,
mitigation, off-setting and enhancement measures to address environmental and social
impacts associated with the Project, and addresses the following topics: (i) organizational
responsibilities and communications, (ii) management and monitoring activities, (iii)
training and awareness, (iv) record keeping, (v) performance monitoring, reporting and
auditing, and (vi) grievance mechanism.
19. 
"Escrow Account" has the meaning ascribed to it in Section I.A.3(c) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
20. 
"Escrow Account Agreement" means the escrow account agreement entered in between
WAPDA and NTDC/CPPA on June 12, 2013 with respect to the Original Project.
21. 
"Escrow Amount" has the meaning ascribed to it in Section I.A.3(c) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
22. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
-22-
23. 
"GRM" has the meaning ascribed to it in the Original Loan Agreement and referred to in
Section I.D.6 of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement and in Section I.D.6 of Schedule to
each of the Project Agreements.
24. 
"Improved Arrangement" means the improved arrangement for implementation and
procurement activities described in the Protocol.
25. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the reasonable incremental operating costs under the
Project, based on the Annual Work Plans and Budgets and incurred by the Borrower or
either of the Project Implementing Entities for purposes of Project management,
implementation, and monitoring and evaluation, on account of utilities and supplies, bank
charges, Taxes payable on a discrete basis (such as those payable through stamped paper),
communications, vehicle operation, maintenance, and insurance, office space rental,
building and equipment maintenance, public awareness-related media expenses,
domestic and international travel and subsistence, and salaries and salary supplements of
contractual and temporary staff (including those incremental to either of the Project
Implementing Entities and working exclusively on the Project), but excluding salaries,
fees, honoraria, bonuses, and any other salary supplements of members of the Borrower's
civil service.
26. 
"International Panel of Experts" has the meaning ascribed to it in in Section I.A.4 of the
Schedule to the WAPDA Project Agreement.
27. 
"Interest During Construction" means the interest accrued during.the Construction Period
and payable on the Loan in accordance with the terms set forth or referred to in this
Agreement.
28. 
"Land and Involuntary Resettlement Compensation" means the reasonable compensations
and other assistance to be paid in cash to Displaced Persons pursuant to the Resettlement
Action Plan(s), as agreed with the Bank, on account of: (i) the taking of their land and/or
their compulsory relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) their loss of assets or access to assets in
connection with the above-referred land takings/relocations; (iii) the loss of income sources
or means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; or (iv)
the involuntary restriction or access to legally designated parks and protected areas,
resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person.
29. 
"Managing Director NTDC" means Managing Director of NTDC.
30. 
"MWP" means the Borrower's Ministry of Water and Power, or any successor thereto.
31. 
"NTDC" means National Transmission and Dispatch Company Limited, an electricity
transmission, system operation and dispatch utility established and operating under Section
32 of the Companies Ordinance (1984) of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan and NEPRA's
license No. TIJL01/2002, and registered with the Joint Registrar of Companies under
certificate of incorporation No. L-09689, dated Noiember 6, 1998.
32. 
"NTDC Legislation" means NTDC's Memorandum and Articles of Association, dated
November 6, 1998, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
-23-
33. 
"NTDC Project Agreement" means the Project Agreement between the Bank and NTDC
with respect to the Project.
34. 
"NTDC Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of Schedule
2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the
Loan available to NTDC.
35. 
"Original Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement for a Tarbela Fourth Extension
Hydropower Project betweenthe Borrowerand the Bank, dated April 12, 2012, as amended
to the date of this Agreement (Loan No. 8144-PK).
36. 
"Original Project" means the Project described in Schedule 1 to the Original Loan
Agreement.
37. 
"Pakistan Rupees" means the lawful currency of the Borrower.
38. 
"PM&E Consultant" means the consulting firm referred to in Section I.A.1(c)(ii) of the
Schedule to the WAPDA Project Agreement.
39. 
"PMU' has the meaning ascribed to it in the Protocol and referred to in Section I.A. 1(b) of
the Schedule to the WAPDA Project.
40. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014) or, for such contracts for goods, works
and non-consulting services entered into earlier than the date of this Agreement as part of
the Original Project and also financed from the proceeds of the Loan, the version of those
guidelines applicable at the time of such contracting.
41. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated August
4, 2016 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph
1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
42. 
"Project Agreements" means, collectively, the WAPDA Project Agreement and the NTDC
Project Agreement.
43. 
"Project Director" has the meaning ascribed to it in the Protocol and referred to in Section
I.A.1(a) of the Schedule to the WAPDA Project Agreement or in Section I.A.(b) of the
Schedule to the NTDC Project Agreement, as the case may be.
44. 
"Project Implementing Entities" means collectively NTDC and WAPDA and "Project
Implementing Entity" means NTDC or WAPDA, as the context may require.
45. 
"Protocol" means the Procurement and Contract Management Protocol, dated August 3,
2016, regarding projects implemented or to be implemented by one or both of the Project
Implementing Entities and financed or to be financed by the Bank or the Association, as
-24-
the same may be amended from time to time subject to the agreement of the Project
Implementing Entities and the Bank.
46. 
"PSC" means the steering committee for the Project maintained in accordance with Section
I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
47. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" means the Resettlement Action Plan to be prepared or cause
to be prepared by the Borrower and NTDC for the implementation of Part B.3 of the Project
in accordance with the provisions of the Resettlement Policy Framework.
48. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" means the Borrower's and the Project Implementing
Entities' document entitled "'Land Acquisition and Resettlement Framework for the
Tarbela Fifth Extension Transmission Line" and dated February 2016, containing
guidelines, procedures, timetables and other specifications for the provision of
compensation, and assistance to Displaced Persons, as the same may be amended from
time to time in accordance with Section I.D.4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and Section
I.D.4 of the Schedule to the NTDC Project Agreement.
49. 
"Respective Part of the Project" means:
(a) 
in respect of WAPDA: the Project except Part B.3; and
(b) 
in respect of NTDC: Part B.3 of the Project.
50. 
"Respective Project Agreement" means the WAPDA Project Agreement or the NTDC
Project Agreement, as the context shall require.
51. 
"Respective Subsidiary Agreement" means the WAPDA Subsidiary Agreement or the
NTDC Subsidiary Agreement, as the context shall require.
52. 
"Safeguard Documents" means, collectively, the Environmental and Social Management
Plan, the Resettlement Policy Framework, the Resettlement 
Action Plan, the
recommendations made from time to time by the International Panel of Experts, as well as
other safeguard documents related to the Original Project, to the extent that they are
applicable to the Project.
53. 
"Subsidiary Agreements" means, collectively, the WAPDA Subsidiary Agreement and the
NTDC Subsidiary Agreement.
54. 
"Tarbela Dam" means the dam of such name on the Indus River in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa
province in the northwest of the Borrower's territory.
55. 
"Tarbela Dam Monitoring Organization" has the meaning ascribed to it in the Original
Loan Agreement, and is referred to in Section I.A.3 of the Schedule to the WAPDA Project
Agreement.
56. 
"Training" means the costs of training under the Project, based on the annual work plans
and budgets referred to in Section I.C of the Schedule to the Project Agreement as approved
-25-
by the Bank, and attributable to seminars, workshops, and study tours, along with domestic
and international travel and subsistence allowances for training participants, services of
trainers, rental of training facilities, preparation and reproduction of training materials, and
other activities directly related to course preparation and implementation.
57. 
"Transmission PMU" means the Transmission PMU established in accordance with
Section I.A.(b) of the Schedule to the NTDC Project Agreement.
58. 
"Tunnel 5" means, among the five original tunnels of the Tarbela Dam, the tunnel
identified as Tunnel 5, which is the one of the two tunnels initially slated for irrigation use
which has not been developed for hydropower purpose under the Original Project.
59. 
"WAPDA" means Water and Power Development Authority, the Borrower's entity, under
MWP, established and operating pursuant to the WAPDA Legislation, and responsible for
the development and management of the Borrower's water and power resources, or any
successor thereto.
60. 
"WAPDA Authority" means the management structure of WAPDA including a Chairman,
WAPDA Member (Water), WAPDA Member (Power) and WAPDA Member (Finance).
61. 
"WAPDA Legislation" means the Water and Power Development Authority Act (1958),
as amended from time to time until the date of this Agreement.
62. 
"WAPDA Member (Water)" means the member of the WAPDA Authority responsible for
WAPDA's the Water Wing.
63. 
"WAPDA Project Agreement" means the Project Agreement between the Bank and
WAPDA with respect to the Project.
64. 
"WAPDA Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the proceeds of
the Loan available to WAPDA.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
I. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
-26-
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually
in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition
of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01
(a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition
of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and
Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
