OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER IBRD 8680-PE
Loan Agreement
(Enhancement of Environmental Quality Services -
Mejoramiento y Ampliacidn de los Servicios de Calidad Ambiental, a Nivel Nacional)
between
REPUBLIC OF PERU
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated. 
O9 
Ff3ER-O 
,2011
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 08 DE FEO(WrRG , 201, 
between the REPUBLIC OF PERU
("Borrower") 
and 
the 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of forty million Dollars ($40,000,000), as such amount
may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with
the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project
described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower's Representative for purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is the Borrower's Minister
of Economy and Finance or the Borrower's Director of Indebtedness and Public Treasury
(DGETP), or any person whom any of them shall designate in writing.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than sixty
(60) days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e)
of the General Conditions.
-2-
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year,
2.07, 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest
rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the
Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate,
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower, through MINAM, declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.
To this end, the Borrower, through MINAM, shall cause OEFA to carry out the Project,
with the assistance of: (a) MINAM in respect of Parts 1.1 and 2 of the Project;
(b) SENAMHI in respect of Parts 1.2 and 2.1 of the Project, all under the coordination of
the PSC, and in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project
is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that OEFA shall
have failed to perform any of its obligations under the OEFA Cooperation Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
the Operational Manual has been adopted by the Borrower, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank;
(b) 
the OEFA Cooperation Agreement has been executed by the relevant parties
thereto, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank;
(c) 
the PCU has been created, and the Project coordinator, procurement, financial
management and legal specialists referred to in Section I.A.1 (b) of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement have been hired, all in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank;
and
(d) 
The PSC has been created in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance, provided that the
Borrower's Director of DGETP, may, by him or herself represent the Borrower to sign
amendments and/or notices to this Agreement which are considered of an administrative
and non-financial nature. The signing by such Director of an amendment and/or notice
shall constitute a representation by the Borrower that any such amendment and/or notice is
considered to be administrative and non-financial in nature.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Jr. Junin 319
Lima, Peru
Facsimile: +51 (1) 626-9921
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at 
LR rlA 
C-- PO 
u 
O 
,as 
oftheday
and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF PERU
By
f _xAV rz-d Representative
Name ALFrEDO TPOR E VETfER
Title MiNisTRo bk EcoNomId 
T7 Nrr ZAS
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By _ 
_ 
_n__ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_
Authorized Representative
Name 
ALBE[Q 
f 
2-
Title 
_____ 
___ 
_
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to generate and share information for environmental quality
control at the national level, by supporting the Borrower to improve its environmental monitoring
and analytical capacity, increase public access to environmental quality information and promote
informed public participation in environmental quality management.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Improve Environmental Ouality Control (Me oramiento v Ampliacidn del Servicio de
Control de la CalidadAmbiental a Nivel Nacional)
Provision of support to MINAM and OEFA to carry out their responsibilities in air, water
and soil monitoring and environmental analysis, including:
1.1. 
Environmental Quality Standards and Guidelines: provision of support to MINAM's
Department of Environmental Quality for: (i) the strengthening of the Borrower's quality
control and quality assurance regulatory framework for air, water and soil monitoring and
environmental 
analysis; 
(ii) 
the preparation 
of technical 
standards, 
protocols,
methodologies and guidance for ambient monitoring and analytical activities; and (iii)
carrying out of baseline and pollution source studies for supporting evidence-based policy
making and environmental quality control.
1.2. 
Monitoring and Analytical Capacity Building: provision of support to OEFA and
SENAMHI, to better monitor air, water and soil quality, in priority air-sheds and
watersheds of the Borrower's territory, including the acquisition of equipment required
therefore.
1.3. 
Monitoring and Analysis: provision of support to OEFA to design, construct and equip a
state-of-the-art national environmental analysis laboratory.
Part 2: Improve Information and Public Participation for Environmental Quality Control
(Mejoramiento y Ampliaci6n del Servicio de Informacidn Para el Control de CalidadAmbiental)
Provision of support to MINAM to improve SINIA's capacity to properly collect, store and
share environmental quality information generated by various entities at the national and local
levels, and to develop and deploy public participation platforms to facilitate the dissemination of
environmental quality information and public participation in environmental quality management,
through:
2.1. 
Strengthening of the interconnection of existing environmental information systems,
including provision of support for data storage and processing for SENAMHI.
2.2. 
Improvement of SINIA's capacity to manage environmental quality data, including
upgrading the existing data center and data processing software.
-6-
2.3. 
Development and deployment of user-friendly IT platforms for dissemination of
environmental quality information, which will address the information needs of policy
makers, environmental civil society organizations, and other key stakeholders.
2.4. 
Development and deployment of communication tools for public inputs on environmental
quality management issues.
2.5. 
Improvement of stakeholders' capacity to use SINIA's new environmental information
tools.
Part 3: Project Management
Provision of support to MINAM and OEFA to implement the Project, through the provision
of technical assistance and the acquisition of goods required therefor, including the financing of
Operating Costs.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower, through MINAM, shall cause OEFA to:
(a) 
(i) create, and thereafter operate and maintain until the completion of the Project,
a unit (the PCU) responsible for the management, coordination, supervision,
monitoring and evaluation of the Project, including the carrying out of
procurement, financial management and safeguards aspects of the Project; and (ii)
ensure that the PCU is, at all times during Project implementation, headed by a
Project coordinator and assisted by two technical coordinators to assist OEFA in
the implementation of Parts 1.2 and 1.3 of the Project, and two technical
coordinators to assist MINAM in providing the assistance to OEFA under Parts
1.1. and 2 of the Project, as referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, as
well as, other professional and administrative staff (including procurement,
financial management, and legal specialists), all with functions, experience,
responsibilities and qualifications acceptable to the Bank as described in the
Operational Manual, and;
(b) 
not later than thirty (30) days after the Effective Date, ensure that the four technical
coordinators mentioned in paragraph (a) above have been hired as provided in said
paragraph.
2. 
The Borrower, through MINAM, shall establish, and thereafter maintain throughout the
implementation of the Project, a Project Steering Committee (PSC) with functions, powers,
resources and competencies acceptable to the Bank, as defined in the Operation Manual,
including overseeing Project implementation, and providing general policy guidance, and
which committee shall be chaired by the vice-minister of Environmental Management of
MINAM.
3. 
The Borrower, through MINAM shall cause OEFA to carry out the Project in accordance
with a manual (the Operational Manual), satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include the
rules, methods, guidelines, standard documents and procedures for the carrying out of the
relevant Parts of the Project, including, inter alia, the following: (i) the detailed description
of Project activities and the detailed institutional arrangements of the Project; (ii) the
Project administrative, accounting, auditing, reporting, financial (including cash flow
aspects in relation thereto), procurement and disbursement procedures; (iii) the monitoring
indicators for the Project; and (iv) the Environmental and Social Management Framework
(ESMF). In the event that any provision of the Operational Manual shall conflict with this
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
-8-
B. 
Cooperation Agreements and Other Institutional Arrangements
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project by OEFA, the Borrower shall ensure that:
(a) 
the entire proceeds of the Loan are made available to OEFA, under terms and
conditions acceptable by the Bank.
(b) 
OEFA shall promptly inform the Borrower and the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the implementation of the Project and the
achievement of the objective thereof.
(c) 
OEFA, at the request of the Borrower and/or the Bank, shall exchange views with
the Borrower and the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project and the
achievement of the objective thereof.
2. 
(a) 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower, through MINAM, shall
enter into an agreement with OEFA (the OEFA Cooperation Agreement) under
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank including, inter alia, MINAM and
OEFA responsibilities in Project execution, and MINAM's and OEFA's
obligations to carry out the activities of the Project in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement.
(b) 
The Borrower, through MINAM, shall exercise its rights and carry out its
obligations under the OEFA Cooperation Agreement in such manner as to protect
the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate, waive, terminate or fail to enforce the OEFA Cooperation
Agreement or any of its provisions.
3. 
(a) 
For purposes of governing the assistance to be provided by SENAMHI under Parts
1.2 and 2.1 of the Project, the Borrower, through MINAM, shall, and shall cause
OEFA to, not later than one (1) year after the Effective Date, enter into a tripartite
agreement 
with 
SENAMHI 
and 
MINAM 
(the 
SENAMHI 
Cooperation
Agreement) under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank including, inter
alia, SENAMHI's responsibilities and obligations in providing assistance to
MINAM and OEFA under said Parts of the Project in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement.
(b) 
The Borrower through MINAM, shall, and shall cause OEFA to, exercise its rights
and carry out its obligations under the SENAMHI Cooperation Agreement in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Bank and OEFA and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive, terminate or fail to enforce
the SENAMHI Cooperation Agreement or any of its provisions.
4. 
(a) 
For purposes of governing the assistance to be provided by ANA to MINAM under
Part 2.1. of the Project, the Borrower, through MINAM, shall, not later than one
(1) year after the Effective Date, enter into an agreement with ANA (the ANA
-9-
Cooperation Agreement) under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank
including, inter alia, ANA's responsibilities and obligations in providing said
assistance under said Part of the Project in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement.
(b) 
The Borrower, through MINAM, shall exercise its rights and carry out its
obligations under the ANA Cooperation Agreement in such manner as to protect
the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate, waive, terminate or fail to enforce the ANA Cooperation
Agreement or any of its provisions.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower, through MINAM, shall cause OEFA to ensure that the Project is carried out
in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D. 
Safeguards
1 .
Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF)
The Borrower, through MINAM, shall cause OEFA to: (a) implement the Project in
accordance with the ESMF; (b) comply with the procedures detailed in said ESMF for
environmental screening, evaluation, implementation and monitoring of the Project,
including the procedures for the preparation of environmental and/or social management
plans, if applicable; and (c) if applicable, implement and/or cause to be implemented, the
pertinent environmental and social management plan, all in accordance with their terms
and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
2. 
Technical assistance
The Borrower, through MINAM, shall cause OEFA to ensure that the terms of reference
for any consultancy in respect of any Project activity shall be satisfactory to the Bank
following its review thereof and, to that end, such terms of reference shall duly incorporate
the requirements of the applicable Bank Safeguards Policies, as applied to the advice
conveyed through such technical assistance.
3. 
Resettlement
The Borrower, through MINAM, shall cause OEFA to ensure that no Resettlement is
involved under the Project.
-10-
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower, through MINAM, shall cause OEFA to monitor and evaluate the progress
of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators acceptable to the Bank.
Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished
to the Bank by OEFA not later than one calendar month after the end of the period covered
by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower, through MINAM, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower, through MINAM, shall cause OEFA to prepare and furnish to the Bank not
later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited
financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory
to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through MINAM, shall cause OEFA have the Financial Statements audited
in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each
audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower
or such other period to be agreed with the Bank, when applicable. The audited Financial
Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank by OEFA not later than six
(6) months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. 
All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to the
corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the Procurement Guidelines, or
Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
- 11 -
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive Bidding; (b) Shopping; and (c) Direct
Contracting.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality and
Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following methods, other
than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of consultants'
services for those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based
Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; (d) Selection based
on Consultants' Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f)
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.1-5.6 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection
of Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of Individual
Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
E. 
Special Provisions
(a) 
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provision set forth in
this Section or the Procurement Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern
all procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services under National
Competitive Bidding procedures:
(i) 
Foreign bidders shall not be required to be locally registered as a condition
of participation in the selection process.
(ii) 
No reference value shall be required for publication in the bidding
documents or used for the purpose of evaluation.
(iii) 
Award of contracts shall be based exclusively on price and, whenever
appropriate, shall take into account factors that can be quantified
-12-
objectively, and the procedure for such quantification shall be disclosed in
the invitation to bid.
(iv) 
Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate in National Competitive
Bidding without restriction and shall not be subject to any unjustified
requirement which will affect their ability to bid such as, but not limited
to, the requirement to authenticate their bidding documents or any
documentation related to such bidding documents with either Peruvian
Consulates, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or any Peruvian authorities as
a prerequisite of bidding.
(v) 
The Borrower, through MINAM, shall cause OEFA to utilize standard
bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) 
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any provision set forth in this
Section or the Consultant Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern all
employment of consultants:
(i) 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be locally registered as a
condition of participation in the selection process.
(ii) 
Foreign 
consultants 
shall 
not be 
required 
to authenticate 
any
documentation related to their participation in the selection process with
Peruvian Consulates, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or any Peruvian
authorities as a condition of participation in said selection process.
(iii) 
No minimum number of responsive proposals shall be required prior to
awarding a contract for consulting services.
(iv) 
The Borrower, through MINAM, shall cause OEFA to use standard
requests for proposals and standard evaluation formats, all satisfactory to
the Bank.
(v) 
Foreign consultants, either individuals or firms, shall not be required to
pay fees to the Peruvian Consultants' Association that are different from
those required for Peruvian consultants.
(vi) 
No consultant financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall, at the time
he or she is carrying out his or her contractual obligations as a consultant,
may hold civil service office or any other position in any agency of the
Borrower (including OEFA), nor shall such consultant have any right to
re-entry into any such office or position upon the conclusion of his or her
consulting services.
F. 
Procurement Plan Execution System
The Borrower, through MINAM, shall cause OEFA to: (i) supply the STEP with the
information contained in the Procurement Plan within sixty (60) days after the date of this
- 13 -
Agreement; and (ii) update the Procurement Plan at least once a year, or as needed through
the duration of the project, to reflect the actual needs and progress in implementation of
the Project and, supply the STEP with the information contained in the updated
Procurement Plan immediately thereafter.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower, through MINAM, shall cause OEFA, may withdraw the proceeds of the
Loan in accordance with the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section,
and such additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as
revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant
to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph
2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures
in each Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) 
Goods, 
works, 
non-
consulting 
services, 
and 
37,277,479 
100%
consultants' services required
under Part 1 of the Project
(2) 
Goods, 
non-consulting
services, 
and 
consultants' 
2,722,521 
100%
services required under Part 2
of the Project
TOTAL AMOUNT 
40,000,000 
_ 
_________
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-
end Fee; or
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $8,000,000 may be made for payments made
prior to this date but on or after November 8, 2016, for Eligible Expenditures.
2. 
The Closing Date is June 1, 2022.
- 14 -
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
Without limitation to the provision of Sections 5.03 and 5.06 of the General Conditions, the
Borrower, through MINAM, shall: (a) ensure that the funds required to operate and maintain the
equipment and facilities under Parts 1.2, 1.3 and 2.2 of the Project shall be available, promptly as
needed; and (b) cause OEFA to ensure that the equipment and facilities referred to in (a) herein
shall at all times during Project implementation be properly operated and maintained.
- 15-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying:
(a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment
Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary,
to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On May 15, 2022 
50%
On November 15, 2022 
50%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as
of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
- 16-
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating
to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
- 17-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"ANA" means Autoridad Nacional del Agua, the Borrower's National Water Authority,
responsible for the Borrower's conservation, protection and sustainable use of water
resources, as established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Legislative Decree No.
997, dated March, 13, 2008 (said Legislative Decree has been amended to the date of this
Agreement).
2. 
"ANA Cooperation Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.B.3 (a) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
3. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated
October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
4. 
"Bank Safeguard Policies" means the Bank's operational policies and procedures set forth
in the Bank's Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04, 4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.36,
4.37, 7.50 and 7.60, as said manual is published under http://web.worldbank.org.
5. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
6. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January
2011 (revised July 2014).
7. 
"Cooperation Agreements" means the ANA Cooperation Agreement, the OEFA
Cooperation Agreement and the SENAMHI Cooperation Agreement.
8. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework or ESMF" means the Borrower's
framework dated August 2016, acceptable to the Bank, published and available to the
public on the website wvw.oefa.gob.pe on September 26, 2016, and on Bank's InfoShop
on September 26, 2016, which contains the environmental protection measures in respect of
the Project, including, inter alia: (a) measures for chance findings of cultural property; (b)
guidelines for the identification of existing environmental conditions and potential direct
and indirect environmental impacts resulting from the carrying out of the Project; (c)
guidelines for the carrying out of environmental assessments and the preparation of
environmental management plans, when applicable; (d) the recommendation of mitigation
measures for each negative environmental impact identified; and (e) measures for
enhancing each identified positive environmental impact, as said framework may be
amended form time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
9. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
- 18-
10. 
"IT" means Information Technology.
11. 
"MINAM" means Ministerio del Ambiente, the Borrower's Ministry of Environment.
12. 
"OEFA" means Organismo de Evaluacidn y Fiscalizaci6n Ambiental, the Borrower's
agency responsible for assessing, supervising, and enforcing environmental activities in
the Borrower's territory, as established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's
Legislative Decree No. 1013 dated May 13, 2008 (as said Presidential Decree has been
amended to the date of this Agreement).
13. 
"OEFA Cooperation Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.B. I (a) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
14. 
"Operating Costs" means the reasonable incremental operational costs (which would not
have been incurred absent the Project) incurred by the Borrower, through MINAM, and
OEFA, related to the management aspects of the Project, including inter alia, remuneration
for non-operational and non-technical staff (excluding the Borrower's civil servants),
minor office equipment, supplies, printing services, communication costs, utilities,
maintenance of office equipment and facilities and logistics service.
15. 
"Operational Manual" means the Borrower's manual referred to in Section I.A.3 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as said manual may be amended from time to time with the
agreement of the Bank.
16. 
"PCU" means the Project Cooperation Unit referred to in Section 1.A.1.(a) of Schedule 2
to this Agreement, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
17. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
18. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
November 8, 2016 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
19. 
"Project Steering Committee" or "PSC" means Grupo de Trabajo: Comiti Directivo, the
committee referred to in Section I.A.2. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, or any successor
thereto acceptable to the Bank.
20. 
"Resettlement" means the impact of: (i) an involuntary taking of land under the Project,
which taking causes affected persons to have their: (a) income source or means of
livelihood adversely affected (whether or not the affected persons must move to another
location); or (b) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural
and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily
or permanently; or (c) access to productive assets adversely affected, temporarily or
permanently; or (d) business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely
affected, temporarily or permanently; or (ii) an involuntary restriction of access to natural
- 19-
resources in legally designated parks and protected areas (including reserves) which causes
an adverse impact on the livelihoods of the affected persons.
21. 
"SENAMHI" means Servicio Nacional de Meteorologia e Hidrologia del Perd, the
Borrower's National Meteorology and Hydrology Service, an agency created by the
Borrower's Law Decree No. 17532 dated March 25, 1969 (as such Law Decree has been
amended to the date of this Agreement), which centralizes the meteorological and
hydrological activities in the Borrower's territory.
22. 
"SENAMHI Cooperation Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.B.2 (a)
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
23. 
"SINIA" means Sistema Nacional de Informacidn Ambiental, the Borrower's National
Environmental Information System, created by the Borrower's Law No. 28611, dated
October 15, 2005 (General Environmental Law) for purposes of establishing an integrated
network to facilitate the compilation, access and dissemination of environmental
information, as well as the use and exchange of information for decision making on
environmental management.
24. 
"STEP" - Systematic Tracking on Exchanges in Procurement means the Bank's system for
the execution of the Procurement Plan.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually
in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above.
-20-
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition
of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01
(a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition
of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any surcharge, any
prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a
Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount
payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and
Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
