OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8724-MA
Loan Agreement
(Financing Innovative Startups and Small and Medium Enterprises Project)
between
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 16, 2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8724-MA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated June 16, 2017, between KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
("Borrower") and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty million Dollars ($50,000,000),
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement
("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to this
Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, however, that, upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion
Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such
non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General
Conditions.
-2-
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project Implementing
Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions
and the Project Agreement.
-3-
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
The Project Implementing Entity's Legislation has been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any of
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b) 
The Agreement establishing Fonds Innov Invest has been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any of
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that either
of the events specified in paragraph (a) and (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement
has occurred.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower
and the Project Implementing Entity.
(b) 
The Project Operations Manual has been prepared, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, and adopted by the Borrower and the Project
Implementing Entity.
(c) 
The Borrower has caused the Project Implementing Entity to prepare draft
terms of reference, acceptable to the Bank, for the recruitment of an
external auditor.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the Subsidiary
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Project
Implementing Entity, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the Project
Implementing Entity in accordance with its terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement.
-4-
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministre de I'Economie et des Finances
Avenue Mohammed V
Rabat
Kingdom of Morocco
Cable address: 
Facsimile:
MINFIN 
212-537-67-75-30/32
212-537-76-40-81
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at Rabat, Kingdom of Morocco, as of the day and year first above
written.
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
By
Authorized Representative
Name: Mohamed Boussaid
Tit 
Minister of Economy and Finance
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Au 
Represenittvc
Na 
: Michael Hamaide
Title: 
nior Country Officer
-6-
SCHEDULE I
P oject Description
The objective of the Project s to facilitate the increase of private equity and quasi-
equity finance for innovative startu s and small and medium enterprises in the Project
Area.
The Project consists of the f liowing parts:
Part A: Financing Program
I. 
Establishment of a legal an( financial model designed to leverage both public and
private sources of funding, ising both newly created and existing angel funds and
investment management co npanics as vehicles whereby to: (a) provide equity or
quasi-equity capital to youn ; innovative SMEs, and (b) provide concessional loans
to Beneficiaries.
2. 
Establishment of a legal an financial model designed to leverage both public and
private sources of fundi g, using both newly created and existing early
stage/venture capital funds as vehicles whereby to: (a) provide equity or quasi-
equity capital to young i novative SMEs, (b) provide concessional loans to
Beneficiaries.
Part B: Ecosystem Support
I. 
Provision of financing, usi g one or more ecosystem providers as intermediaries,
to provide pre-seed gran 
for the benefit of young entrepreneurs and young
innovative SMEs to suppo early testing or development of a business concept or
idea.
2. 
Provision of financing, usi g one or more ecosystem providers as intermediaries,
to provide soft loans for th, benefit of new start-ups and entrepreneurs to facilitate
the commercialization of t] cir products, prototypes or technological solutions.
3. 
Provision of financing to elected ecosystem providers in order to provide non-
cash support for the benef t of entrepreneurs, including: (a) mentoring programs,
(b) design of investment re diness programs, and (c) development of the business
angel network.
-7-
PatLC: Proict Management, Coordination and Monitoring and Evaluation
Provision of technical advisory services and material assistance to support the
management, coordination, and monitoring and evaluation of the Project, and to
cover its management and operational costs.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Iroject Execution
Section 1. 
Implementation Ai raneements
A. 
Institutional Arrangement;
1. 
The Borrower shall establi h and maintain, or cause the Project Implementing
Entity to establish and main ain:
(a) 
a Steering Comm ttee, whose mandate and composition shall be
acceptable to the B nk, which shall be responsible for Project oversight,
provide strategic 
idance and verify its coherence within the broader
national developme it agenda;
(b) 
a Technical Comittee, whose mandate and composition shall be
acceptable to the B nk, which shall meet on a six-monthly basis or more
often, as needed, to review progress reports and verify the progress of the
Project, having reg rd to performance indicators, and the monitoring and
evaluation framew rk; and
(c) 
the Project Manag ment Unit, whose mandate and composition shall be
acceptable to the B nk, charged with responsibility for Project execution,
and responsible fc r overall coordination of the Project and day-to-day
management of is activitics, including monitoring and evaluation,
fiduciary and safe 
ards management, and reporting requirements.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause t ic Project Implementing Entity to:
(a) 
maintain policies nd procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate on an ong ing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to
the Bank, the ca 
ing out of the Project and the achievement of the
objective thereof;
(b) 
prepare, under te 
of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to
the Bank, not late than June 30, 2020, a report integrating the results of
the monitoring an evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph
(a) of this Sectio , on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out
the measures ree mmended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the
Project and the a hievement of the objective thereof during the period
following such da e; and
-9-
(c) 
review with the Borrower and the Bank, not later than September 30, 2020,
or such later date as the Borrower or the Bank shall request, the report
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter take all
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the
achievement of the objective thereof, based on the conclusions and
recommendations of the said report, and the Borrower's and Bank's views
on the matter.
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall make the
equivalent of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Category (1) available to the
Project Implementing Entity under a subsidiary agreement between the Borrower
and the Project Implementing Entity ("Subsidiary Agreement Part A"), under
terms and conditions approved by the Bank, which shall include the following:
(a) 
the proceeds ofthe Financing made available under Subsidiary Agreement
Part A ("Subsidiary Financing Part A") shall be provided to the Project
Implementing Entity in the form of budgetary allocations; and
(b) 
the amount of the Subsidiary Financing Part A shall be applied exclusively
to finance equity investments, loans and management fees under Part A of
the Project, in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement
and the procedures and criteria set forth in the Project Operations Manual.
2. 
To facilitate the carrying out of Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall make the
equivalent of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Category (2) available to the
Project Implementing Entity under a subsidiary agreement between the Borrower
and the Project Implementing Entity ("Subsidiary Agreement Part B"), under
terms and conditions approved by the Bank, which shall include the following:
(a) 
the proceeds of the Financing made available under Subsidiary Agreement
Part B ("Subsidiary Financing Part B") shall be provided to the Project
Implementing Entity in the form of budgetary allocations; and
(b) 
the amount of the Subsidiary Financing Part B shall be applied exclusively
to finance loans and grants under Part B of the Project, in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement and the procedures and criteria set
forth in the Project Operations Manual.
3. 
To facilitate the carrying out of Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall make the
equivalent of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Category (3) available to the
Project Implementing Entity under a subsidiary agreement between the Borrower
and the Project Implementing Entity ("Subsidiary Agreement Part C"), under
terms and conditions approved by the Bank.
110-
4. 
The Borrower shall exercis. its rights under the Subsidiary Financing Part A,
Subsidiary Financing Part B and Subsidiary Agreement Part C in such manner as
to protect the interests of lc Borrower and the Bank, and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan. Excep as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not assign, amend, abrogate r waive the Subsidiary Agreement Part A, Subsidiary
Financing Part B or Subsidit ry Agreement Part C, or any of the provisions thereof,
if such assignment, amend rnt, 
abrogation or waiver may materially or adversely
affect the implementation o the Project.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Cor 
ption Guidelines.
D. 
Safeguards
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to monitor on a
continuing basis the implen entation of the Safeguard Instruments and ensure that
the Project is executed in st ict accordance with such Safeguard Instruments, and,
upon the occurrence of any event or condition likely to interrupt or interfere with
the smooth implementation f the Safeguard Instruments, the Borrower shall cause
the Project Implementing 
tity to act promptly to deal with or address such event
or condition, and inform th Borrower and the Bank accordingly.
2. 
For the purposes of any Sul project or other activity under the Project, and prior to
implementation thereof, th( Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity
to ensure that any plan, acti n plan, fact sheet or other instrument required in terms
of any one or more of the ! afeguard Instruments, shall have been duly:
(a) 
prepared in form n nd substance satisfactory to the Bank, and, except as
otherwise agreed vith the Bank, submitted to the Bank for review and
approval, and
(b) 
thereafter adopted nd publicly disclosed.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to take all measures
necessary on its part to re 
larly collect, compile, and submit to the Bank, as part
of the six-monthly reports referred to in Section IL.A below, reports on the status
of compliance with the Sa eguard Instruments, giving details of:
(a) 
measures taken in furtherance of such Safeguard Instruments;
(b) 
any event or con dtion which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
smooth implemen ation of such Safeguard Instruments; and
-11-
(c) 
remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such event or
condition.
4. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower shall not amend,
waive or abrogate, or cause to be amended, waived or abrogated, any provision of
the Safeguard Instruments.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to monitor and evaluate
the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions, and on the basis of indicators
acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the Project Operations Manual. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to
the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by
such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to maintain a financial
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the
General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the Bank not later
than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited
financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Implementing Entity shall have its
Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09(b)
of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the
period of one fiscal year of the Project Implementing Entity. The audited Financial
Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six
months after the end of such period.
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that each audit referred to in the preceding paragraph
shall include an audit of Project Accounts, and of Eligible Expenditures of
Participating Intermediaries, conducted in accordance with guidelines and
modalities agreed with the Bank, and reflected in the external auditor's terms of
reference.
-12-
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods and Non-consultinj; Services. 
All goods and non-consulting services
required for the Project and a be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
procured in accordance witt the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I
of the Procurement Guidcli es, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. Al consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the procc eds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the pro isions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalize( terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or m:thods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the correspondinj method described in Sections II and Ill of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Pri curement of Goods and Non-consulting Services
I. 
International Competitiv4 Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods and non-Cnsulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of Int rnational Competitive Bidding procedures.
2. 
Other Methods of Procu ement of Goods and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other t an International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods and on-consulting services for those contracts specified in
the Procurement Plan:
Procurement Method
(a) National Compctitiv Bidding (subject to the additional provisions set forth
in subparagraph 3 b low)
(b) Shopping
(c) Direct Contracting
-13-
3. 
Additional Provisions for National Competitive Bidding
National Competitive Bidding may be used subject to the following qualifications:
(a) 
The bidding documents shall include explicitly the bid evaluation method,
award criteria and bidder qualification criteria.
(b) 
Technical, administrative and financial envelopes shall be opened
immediately after the bid opening session has started and prices shall be
read aloud.
(c) 
The bids shall be evaluated on the basis of price and other criteria
expressed either in pass/fail terms or in monetary terms, and disclosed in
the bidding documents.
(d) 
Contracts shall be awarded to the qualified bidder who has submitted the
least-cost evaluated and substantially responsive bid, as stipulated in the
bidding document.
(e) 
Standard bidding documents and bid evaluation reports acceptable by the
Bank shall be used.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan:
Procurement Method
(a) 
Quality-Based Selection
(b) Least Cost Selection
(c) 
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications
(d) Single Source Selection of consulting firms
(e) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants
(f) Single-source procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants
-14-
D. 
Review by the Bank of Pro urement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall 
t forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All 
her contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Lo n Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withd w the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article 11 of th General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank s 
11 specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"World Bank Disbursemen Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised
from time to time by the B 
k and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant
to such instructions), to fin nce Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifi s the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proce 
s of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to ea h Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expedditures in each Category.
-15-
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Category 
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) 
financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Sub-financings and 
42,000,000 
100% of amounts
management fees under 
disbursed
Part A of the Project
(2) Sub-financings under 
6,000,000 
100% of amounts
Part B of the Project 
disbursed
(3) Consultants' services, 
1,875,000 
100/0
goods, non-consulting
services and Operating
Costs other than under
Categories (1) and (2)
(4) Front-end Fee 
125,000 
Amount payable
pursuant to Section
2.03 of this Agreement
in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(5) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant
Interest Rate Collar 
to Section 2.08(c) of
premium 
this Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
50,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b) 
under Category (1), unless the Project Implementing Entity has signed at
least one Administration Agreement with a Participating Financial
Intermediary; or
(c) 
under Category (2), unless the Project Implementing Entity has signed at
least one Participation Agreement with a Participating Non-Financial
Intermediary.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2023.
-16-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a
Percentage)
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning May 15, 2022, 
2.5%
through November 15, 2041
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
-17.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (a) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (b) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
-18-
APPENDIX
Section 1. 
Definitions
1. 
"Administration Agreement" means an Administration Agreement between the
Project Implementing Entity and a Participating Financial Intermediary, and
referred to in Section I.D. I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
2. 
"Agreement establishing Fonds Innov Invest ("Fll")" means the Innovation
Investment Fund Agreement, dated June 22, 2016, between the Borrower and the
Project Implementing Entity, providing for the establishment of an innovation
investment fund to be managed by the Project Implementing Entity.
3. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006, and revised in January 2011.
4. 
"Beneficiary" means an innovative SME, entrepreneur, new startup or other
beneficiary of a Sub-financing, and party to a Sub-financing Agreement.
5. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
6. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
7. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the
Environmental and Social Management Framework, dated January 25, 2017,
issued by or on behalf of the Borrower and thereafter publicly disclosed, providing
an analysis of potential impacts on the human and biophysical environment
associated with the Project, an assessment of the risks and likelihood of potential
adverse social and environmental impacts, and a checklist of plans and measures
designed to prevent, manage or mitigate such potential adverse impacts.
8. 
"Equity Investment" means an equity or quasi-equity investment under Part A of
the Project
9. 
"General Conditions" means the "international Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section 11 of this Appendix.
10. 
"Investment Agreement" means an agreement providing for an equity investment.
.19-
11. 
"MoEF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Economy and Finance, or any
successor thereto.
12. 
"Operating Costs" means the incremental operating costs arising under the Project
on account of local contractual support staff salaries, employment benefits, travel
expenditures and other travel-related allowances; 
equipment rental and
maintenance; vehicle rental, operation, maintenance and repair, office rental and
maintenance, materials and supplies; and utilities, media information campaigns
and communications' expenses, but does not include civil service salaries.
13. 
"Participating Financial Intermediary" or "PFI" means a Participating Financial
Intermediary referred to in Section I.D. I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement,
and deemed eligible to participate in Part A of the Project, having regard to the
eligibility criteria set forth in the Project Operations Manual.
14. 
"Participating Intermediary" or "Pl" means a Participating Financial Intermediary
or Participating Non-Financial Intermediary, or both.
15. 
"Participating Non-Financial Intermediary" or "PNFI" means a Participating Non-
Financial Intermediary referred to in Section I.E. I of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement, and deemed eligible to participate in Part B of the Project, having
regard to the eligibility criteria set forth in the Project Operations Manual.
16. 
"Participation Agreement" means a Participation Agreement between the Project
Implementing Entity and a Participating Non-Financial Intermediary, and referred
to in Section I.E. I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
17. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
18. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
February 8, 2017, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines
and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
19. 
"Project Account" means a project account referred to under Section I.D.3 (b) or
I.E. 1 (b) of the Project Agreement.
20. 
"Project Area" means the regions of Tanger-Tdtouan-Al Hoceima, I'Oriental, Fs-
Mckn&s, 
Rabat-Sali-Knitra, 
B6ni-Mellal-Khenifra, 
Casablanca-Settat,
Marrakech-Safi, Drai-Tafilalet, and Souss-Massa, and the provinces of Guelmim,
Tan-Tan and Sidi-Ifni, of the Borrower.
21. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means Caisse Centrale de Garantie, a public
institution and assimilated credit institution, established and operating under the
.20-
laws of the Borrower, including the Project Implementing Entity's Legislation, and
empowered to operate a seed, early-stage, and venture capital financing program
through public funding, pursuant to the Agreement establishing Fonds Innov
Invest.
22. 
"Project Implementing Entity's Legislation" means the Borrower's Law No. 47-
95, promulgated by Royal Decree No. 1-96-107 of August 7, 1996, as amended
from time to time.
23. 
"Project Management Unit" means the Project Management Unit referred to in
Section 1.A. I (b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
24. 
"Project Operations Manual" means the Project Operations Manual referred to in
Section 1.B. I (a) of the Schedule I to the Project Agreement.
25. 
"Safeguard Instruments" means any one or more of the ESMF and any other
safeguard instrument derived therefrom or adopted pursuant thereto.
26. 
"SME" means a small or medium-size enterprise.
27. 
"Steering Committee" means the Steering Committee referred to in Section l.A. I
(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
28. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 1..1
("Subsidiary Agreement Part A"), Section I.B.2 ("Subsidiary Agreement Part B")
and Section I.B.3 ("Subsidiary Agreement Part C") of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan
available to the Project Implementing Entity.
29. 
"Sub-financing" means, singly or collectively, an Equity Investment, a Sub-loan
and/or a Sub-grant, and includes financing provided to a Participating Non-
Financial intermediary to provide non-cash support to other Beneficiaries.
30. 
"Sub-financing Agreement" means an agreement providing for a Sub-financing.
31. 
"Sub-grant" means a sub-grant under Part B of the Project.
32. 
"Sub-grant Agreement" means an agreement providing for a Sub-grant.
33. 
"Sub-loan" means a sub-loan under Part A or Part B of the Project, as the case may
be.
34. 
"Sub-loan Agreement" means an agreement providing for a Sub-loan.
-21-
35. 
"Sub-project" means any activity, investment activity or sector of activity under
Part A or Part B of the Project, financed or to be financed out of the proceeds of a
Sub-financing Agreement.
36. 
"Technical Committee" means the Technical Committee referred to in Section
I.A. I (b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions arc hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section3.01. 
Front-end Fee: Cominiment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee)'.
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. 
The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5, 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
-22-
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any
prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of
a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable
upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any
Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
