'OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8799-PK
AMENDMENT TO
CREDIT NUMBER 5081-PK
Loan Agreement
(Additional Financing for the Punjab Irrigated Agriculture
Productivity Improvement Program Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated'JP 
,2 20-
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement datedbec& 
L.- 
, 20 1_etween ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
OF 
PAKISTAN 
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing
additional financing for activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix
to this Agreement). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred thirty million Dollars
(USD 130,000,000) ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in
Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, however, that the interest payable shall in no event be less than zero
percent (0%) per annum; and provided furthermore that, upon a Conversion of all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the
Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance
remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty
-2-
days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as
provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 1 and November 1 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; and (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; 4nd (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project
Implementing Entity, with the assistance of Service Providers and Water Users'
Associations in relation to Parts A and B of the Project, respectively, in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the Project
Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section Officer of the Economic Affairs Division
of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Statistics, each such person acting
individually.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Economic Affairs Division
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Statistics
Islamabad
Pakistan
Facsimile:
92-51-921-8976
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Facsimile:
1-202-477-6391
-4-
AGREED at Islamabad, Islamic Republic of Pakistan, as of the day and
year first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By
Authorized Representative
Name: M 
.,4A
Title:,5 cuc,,- EAZ(
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorize 
presentative
Name: 
on
Title 
A)§b i 
~ 
RL L 
I
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve the productivity of water use in irrigated
agriculture.
The Project consists of the following parts:
A. 
Installation of High-Efficiency Irrigation Systems
Installation of high-efficiency irrigation systems, such as drip, trickle, bubbler or
sprinkler systems, controlled application of water and non-water inputs, and
provision of related technical assistance to farmers for horticulture, vegetable,
floriculture, and other high-value field and/or row crops. Construction of ponds in
canal command areas underlain with saline groundwater and ponds for rain water
harvesting in Pothohar region of Punjab.
B. 
Upgrading of Community Irrigation Systems
1. 
Carrying out of watercourse improvements in canal-irrigated areas;
2. 
Completion of improvements to partially improved watercourses; and
3. 
Carrying out of improvements to community irrigation systems in non-
canal command areas,
all including construction and installation of canalets, carrying out of lining of
watercourses, replacement and new installation of water turnout structures, and
provision of technical assistance to Water Users' Associations in relation to layout
and construction supervision in this regard.
C. 
Improvement of Agricultural Technology and Practices, and Monitoring and
Evaluation of Project and Environmental and Social Management Plan
1. 
(a) provision of effective applied agricultural research, extension, and
information services to farmers; (b) carrying out of participatory training
for farmers in relation to various agro-technical fields, farm management,
and irrigation agronomy; (c) carrying out of demonstration of and
provision of technical assistance in relation to modem, improved
agricultural technologies and methods and agronomic practices to farmers;
(d) carrying out of training of Service Providers and trainers in related
areas; and (e) establishment of a farmer information services desk with
internet, electronic media, and cell phone platforms.
-6-
2. 
Monitoring and evaluation of implementation and impact of Project,
Environmental 
and 
Social 
Management 
Plan 
and 
Site-specific
Environmental and Social Management Plans.
3. 
Provision of equipment, technical assistance and training to support post-
harvest processing and value addition, including, inter alia, through
provision of small-scale processing equipment/machines units, etc., and
capacity building of farmers.
D. 
Project Management, Independent Project Supervision, Strategic Studies, and
Technical Assistance to Project Implementing Entity
(i) Project implementation and management activities, including mobilization of
farmers, carrying out of surveys, engineering, and design, provision of technical
assistance to farmers and Service Providers, and quality control; (ii) independent
Project supervision and verification of Outputs and Subproject Performance
Indicators; and (iii) carrying out of strategic studies in areas identified during
Project implementation, and provision of technical assistance and training to the
Project Implementing Entity, farmers and Service Providers, in areas such as crop
diversification, shifting to horticulture, vegetable, and floriculture crops, operation
and maintenance of irrigation systems installed under the Project, and supporting
Master's Degree programs in high efficiency irrigation systems.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
On-lending
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds
of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity under financial terms and
conditions identical to those provided for under this Agreement and in accordance
with the Borrower's on-lending and budgetary policies and procedures.
2. 
Notwithstanding paragraph I above, in the event of a conflict between the on-
lending and budgetary policies and procedures of the Borrower and the provisions
of this Agreement, including such additional instructions as the Bank shall have
specified by notice to the Borrower pursuant to Section IV.A of this Schedule, the
provisions of this Agreement, including said additional instructions, shall govern.
3. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the on-lending arrangements referred
to in paragraph 1 above in such a manner as to protect its interests and those of the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Sub-projects
1. 
The Borrower shall, jointly with the Project Implementing Entity and the Bank,
not later than six (6) months after the Effective Date, again not later than twelve
(12) months after the Effective Date, and thereafter on an annual basis throughout
Project implementation, review the Outputs and related Unit Costs, and thereafter
adjust them as necessary, both in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
2. 
In the event that the adjustments referred to in Section I.E.4 (b) of the Schedule to
the Project Agreement are not possible, or are insufficient to compensate for the
amounts paid in excess of the actual average cost of the respective Outputs, the
Borrower undertakes to refund, or cause the Project Implementing Entity to refund,
to the Bank any amounts withdrawn for Subprojects in excess of said average cost.
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that any withdrawal application in relation to a
Subproject shall only be made upon satisfactory completion of the Subproject,
including delivery of the respective Output/s, agreed in the respective Subproject
-8-
Agreement and accounted for in such withdrawal application, as duly certified by
the consultant referred to in Section I.A.11 of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement, both in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
D. 
Safeguards
1 .
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Environmental and Social Management Plan and Site-specific
Environmental and Social Management Plans, and, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or
waive, or permit to be assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived, the
aforementioned, or any provision thereof.
Section II. 
Project Monitorin2 Reportin2 and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to monitor and evaluate
the progress of the Project and cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such
report.
B. 
Semi-Annual Reviews
The Borrower shall review jointly with the Bank and the Project Implementing
Entity, no later than one (1) month after the submission of every second Project
Report to the Bank, such report and the one preceding, and thereafter cause the
Project Implementing Entity to take all measures required to ensure the efficient
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof, based on
the conclusions and recommendations of such reports and the Bank's views on the
matter.
C. 
Midterm Review
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
carry out jointly with the Bank and the Project Implementing Entity, not later than
twenty-four (24) months, or such other period as may be agreed with the Bank,
after the Effective Date, a midterm review to assess the status of Project
implementation, as measured against the performance indicators. Such review
shall include an assessment of the following: 
(i) overall progress in
implementation; (ii) results of monitoring and evaluation activities; (iii) progress
-9-
on procurement and disbursement; (iv) progress on implementation of safeguards
measures; (v) implementation arrangements; and (vi) the need to make any
adjustments to the Project and reallocate funds to improve performance;
(b) 
cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the Borrower and
the Bank, at least one (1) month before such review, a report, in scope and detail
satisfactory to the Bank and integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation
activities performed pursuant to Section II.A.1 of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the
period preceding the date of such report and setting out the measures recommended
to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the
objective thereof during the period following such date; and
(c) 
review jointly with the Bank and the Project Implementing Entity the report
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Part C and thereafter cause the Project
Implementing Entity to take all measures required to ensure the efficient
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof, based on
the conclusions and recommendations of such report and the Bank's views on the
matter.
D. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1 .
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the Bank not later
than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited
financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
4. The Borrower shall, and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to, have
its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section
5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements
shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not
later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
-10-
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods and works for those contracts specified
in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the
following additional provisions set forth in Annex 1 to this Schedule; (b)
Shopping; (c) Direct Contracting; (d) Community Participation procedures which
have been found acceptable to the Bank; and (e) Framework Agreements.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
-11-
Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; 
(d) Selection based on Consultants'
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Procedures set
forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of
Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
-12-
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"Disbursement Guidelines for Investment Project Financing" dated February 1,
2017, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures to
Allocated 
be financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Subprojects (Parts A and 
109,675,000 
100% of the applicable Unit
B of the Project) 
Costs of the Outputs included in
a Subproject paid by the Project
Implementing Entity to the
respective Service Provider or
Water Users' Association as per
the terms of the respective
Subproject Agreement
(2) 
Goods, works, 
non- 
20,000,000 
100%
consulting 
services, 
and
consultants' services for the
Project (including audits),
Training, 
and 
Operating
Costs under parts C and Part
D of the Project
(3) Front-end Fee 
325,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this Agreement
in accordance with Section 2.07
(b) of the General Conditions
(4) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to Section
Interest Rate Collar 
2.08(c) of this Agreement
premium
TOTAL AMOUNT 
130,000,000
-13-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2021.
-14-
ANNEX 1 TO SCHEDULE 2
National Competitive Bidding; Additional Provisions
The procedures applicable to the procurement of goods, works, and non-consulting
services under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding shall be
undertaken with the additional provisions set forth below in order to ensure economy,
efficiency, transparency, and broad consistency with the provisions of Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, pursuant to paragraph 3.3 of said Guidelines. In the event of a
conflict between the Borrower's procedures and the additional provisions set forth below,
the latter shall govern.
(i) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one (1) national newspaper
with a wide circulation, at least thirty (30) days prior to the deadline for
the submission of bids.
(ii) 
Bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who
are willing to pay the required fee.
(iii) 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding, and no preference of
any kind shall be given to national bidders in the bidding process.
(iv) 
Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms.
(v) 
Qualification criteria shall be stated in the bidding documents.
(vi) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for the
submission of bids.
(vii) 
Single bids shall also be evaluated.
(viii) 
Bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an
official estimate without the prior written agreement of the Bank.
(ix) 
Before rejecting all bids and soliciting new bids, the Bank's prior written
agreement shall be obtained.
(x) 
Bids shall be solicited and works contracts shall be awarded on the basis
of unit prices and not on the basis of a composite schedule of rates.
(xi) 
Contracts shall not be awarded on the basis of nationally negotiated rates.
(xii) 
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated and qualified bidder.
-15-
(xiii) 
Post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated
or any other bidder.
(xiv) 
Draft contracts shall be reviewed by the Bank in accordance with Prior
Review procedures.
(xv) 
A firm declared ineligible by the Bank, based on a determination by the
Bank that the firm has engaged in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive,
or obstructive practices in competing for or executing an Bank-financed
contract, shall be ineligible to be awarded an Bank-financed contract
during the period of time determined by the Bank.
(xvi) 
Each contract financed from the proceeds of the Loan shall provide that
the suppliers, contractors, and subcontractors shall permit the Bank, at its
request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to the performance
of the contract and to have said accounts and records audited by auditors
appointed by the Bank. The deliberate and material violation by the
supplier, contractor, or subcontractor of such provision may amount to an
obstructive practice.
(xvii) 
Borrower-owned enterprises shall be eligible to bid only if they can
establish that they are legally and financially autonomous, operate under
commercial law, and are not a dependent agency of the Borrower.
(xviii) 
The Bank shall declare a firm ineligible, either indefinitely or for a stated
period, to be awarded a contract financed by the Bank if it at any time
determines that the firm has, directly or through an agent, engaged in
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive, or obstructive practices in
competing for or executing a contract financed by the Bank.
-16-
ANNEX 2 TO SCHEDULE 2
Outputs
The Outputs eligible for financing for each type of Subproject are as follows:
Subprojects 
Outputs
Irrigation Systems Subprojects 
1. 
High-efficiency 
irrigation 
system
installed in an area of up to three (3)
acres.
2. 
High-efficiency 
irrigation 
system
installed in an area of up to five (5) acres.
3. 
High-efficiency 
irrigation 
system
installed in an area of up to twelve and a
half (12.5) acres.
Watercourse Improvement Subprojects 
1. 
New prefabricated concrete lining of
watercourse carried out.
2. 
Prefabricated concrete lining of partially
improved watercourse carried out.
3. 
Lining of watercourse in rain-fed area
carried 
out: 
(a) pipes 
installed;
(b) concrete channels built; and (c) brick
lining carried out.
-17-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
From May 1, 2023 - November 1, 2024 
1.5%
From May 1, 2025 - November 1, 2026 
1.75%
From May 1, 2027 - November 1, 2028 
2%
From May 1, 2029 - May 1, 2030 
3.5%
On November 1, 2030 
3%
From May 1, 2031 - November 1, 2032 
5%
May 1, 2033 -November 1, 2035 
4%
On May 1, 2036 
2%
From November 1, 2036 - November 1, 
1.5%
2042
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
-18-
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
-19-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
3. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
4. 
"Department of Agriculture" means the Project Implementing Entity's department
responsible for agriculture or a successor thereto.
5. 
"Devolution Plan" means the Borrower's Local Government Plan dated
August 14, 2001 providing for the devolution of certain powers from the federal
government to the local governments, as the same may be modified from time to
time, and such term includes any annexes or schedules to such plan.
6. 
"Directorate General, Agriculture (Water Management)" means the directorate of
the Department of Agriculture responsible for agriculture, and particularly water
management, or a successor thereto.
7. 
"District 
Implementation 
Committees" 
means, 
collectively, 
the 
Project
Implementing 
Entity's 
committees, 
under 
the 
Directorate 
General,
Agriculture (Water Management), established and operating pursuant to the
Project Implementing Entity's Notification Number SOA(P) 3-12/2011 dated
January 2, 2012 and whose responsibilities are set out in Section I.A.8 of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement, or successors thereto.
8. 
"District Rate Committees" means, collectively, the Project Implementing Entity's
committees, under the District Implementation Committees, established and
operating 
pursuant 
to 
the 
Project 
Implementing 
Entity's 
Notification
Number SOA(P) 3-12/2011 dated January 2, 2012 and whose responsibilities are
set out in Section I.A.9 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, or successors
thereto.
9. 
"Divisional Directorate Agriculture Water Management" means, collectively, the
Project Implementing Entity's units, under the Directorate General, Agriculture
(Water Management), established and operating pursuant to the Project
-20-
Implementing Entity's whose responsibilities are set out in Section I.A.6 of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement or successors thereto.
10. 
"Environmental and Social Management Plan" means the Project Implementing
Entity's plan, updated and disclosed locally and at Infoshop June 15, 2016, and
agreed with the Bank, setting out mitigation, enhancement, monitoring, and
institutional measures, including capacity building through training, to eliminate
any adverse environmental and social impacts of activities to be implemented
under the Project, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels, or enhance
positive impacts, as the same may be modified from time to time with the prior
written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any annexes or schedules
to such plan.
11. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
12. 
"Irrigation Systems Subproject" means a specific activity under Part A. 1 of the
Project financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Section I.E of the Schedule to the Project Agreement and carried out by a
Service Provider; and "Irrigation Systems Subprojects" means more than one (1)
such activity.
13. 
"Irrigation Systems Subproject Agreement" means an agreement, referred to in
Section I.E.2 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, among the Project
Implementing Entity, represented by the Directorate General, Agriculture (Water
Management), a Service Provider, and a farmer, setting forth the terms and
conditions governing the implementation of an Irrigation Systems Subproject,
including the related cost-sharing arrangements between the Project Implementing
Entity and the farmer, and such term includes any annexes or schedules to such
agreement.
14. 
"Office of Deputy Director Agriculture" means, collectively, the Project
Implementing Entity's offices, whose responsibilities are set out in Section I.A.7
of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, or successors thereto.
15. 
"Operating Costs" means the incremental operating costs under the Project
incurred by the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity for purposes of
Project management, implementation, and monitoring and evaluation, on the basis
of the annual work plans and budgets referred to in Section I.D of the Schedule to
the Project Agreement, on account of office supplies and consumables, utilities,
bank charges, Taxes payable on a discrete basis (such as those payable through
stamped paper), communications, mass media and printing services, vehicle rental,
operation, maintenance, and insurance, office space rental, building and equipment
maintenance, domestic and international travel, lodging, and subsistence
-21-
allowances, and salaries and salary supplements of contractual and temporary staff
(including those incremental to the Project Implementing Entity and working
exclusively on the Project), but excluding salaries, fees, honoraria, bonuses, and
any other salary supplements of members of the Borrower's or the Project
Implementing Entity's civil service.
16. 
"Original Financing Agreement" means the financing agreement for a Punjab
Irrigated Agriculture Productivity Improvement Program Project between the
Recipient and the Association, dated April 12, 2012, as amended to the date of this
Agreement, including as set forth in Section III to the Appendix of this Agreement
(Credit No. 508 1-PK).
17. 
"Original Project" means the Punjab Irrigated Agriculture Productivity
Improvement Program Project described in Schedule 1 to the Original Financing
Agreement.
18. 
"Original Project Agreement" means project agreement for the Original Project
between the Province of Punjab and the Association, dated April 12, 2012.
19. 
"Output" means any of the construction- or operation-phase outputs of a
Subproject (as hereinafter defined), as set forth in Annex 2 to Schedule 2 to this
Agreement for each type of Subproject, eligible for financing out of the proceeds
of the Financing on the basis of its Unit Cost (as hereinafter defined).
20. 
"Pre-Qualification Committee" 
means the Project Implementing Entity's
committee, under the Project Steering Committee, whose responsibilities are set
out in Section I.A.10 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, or successors
thereto.
21. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
22. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
March 21, 2017 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines
and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
23. 
"Project Agreement" refers to the Project Agreement, of the same date as this
Agreement, for the Additional Financing for the Punjab Irrigated Agriculture
Productivity Improvement Program Project.
24. 
"Project Financial Management Manual" means the Project Implementing Entity's
manual, dated January 26, 2012, referred to in Section I.C of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement and agreed with the Bank, setting out financial management
-22-
and disbursement arrangements and procedures for purposes of Project
implementation, including, in relation to Subprojects, specific requirements and
operating guidelines, and, in relation to each type of Subproject, the Outputs and
the Unit Costs (as hereinafter defined) of such Outputs, as the same may be
modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Association,
and such term includes any annexes or schedules to such manual.
25. 
"Project Implementation Committee" means the Project Implementing Entity's
committee, under the Directorate General, Agriculture (Water Management),
established and operating pursuant to Project Implementing Entity's Notification
Number SOA(P) 3-12/2011 dated January 2, 2012 and whose responsibilities are
set out in Section I.A.5 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, or a successor
thereto.
26. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means the Province of Punjab (as hereinafter
defined).
27. 
"Project Implementing Entity's Legislation" means the Recipient's Constitution of
1973.
28. 
"Project Policy Committee" means the Project Implementing Entity's committee,
established 
and operating pursuant 
to its Notification Number 
1453-
61/DGA/OFWM/Dev.DS/1-12 dated February 6, 2012 and referred to in
Section I.A.2 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement or a successor thereto.
29. 
"Project Steering Committee" means the Project Implementing Entity's
committee, established and operating pursuant to its Notification Number 4233-40
DGA/OFWM/Dev dated June 22, 2011 and referred to in Section I.A.3 of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement or a successor thereto.
30. 
"Province of Punjab" means the Borrower's administrative subdivision of such
name established pursuant to the Project Implementing Entity's Legislation or a
successor thereto.
31. 
"Service Provider" means a service and supply company participating in the
implementation of Subprojects in accordance with the criteria and requirements of
Section I.E of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
32. 
"Site-specific Environmental and Social Management Plan" means each of the
Project Implementing Entity's site-specific plans for Part C.3 of the Project, to be
prepared pursuant to Section I.F.5(b) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement,
and to be agreed with the Bank, setting out mitigation, enhancement, monitoring,
and institutional measures, to eliminate any adverse environmental and social
impacts of activities to be implemented under Part C.3 of the Project, offset them,
or reduce them to acceptable levels, or enhance positive impacts, as the same may
-23-
be modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and
such term includes any annexes or schedules to such plan; and "Site-specific
Environmental and Social Management Plans" means more than one such "Site-
specific Environmental and Social Management Plan".
33. 
"Subproject" means an Irrigation Systems Subproject, or a Watercourse
Improvement Subproject (as hereinafter defined) or a Water Storage Pond
Subproject; and "Subprojects" means more than one (1) of said Subprojects.
34. 
"Subproject Agreement" means an Irrigation Systems Subproject Agreement, or a
Watercourse Improvement Subproject Agreement (as hereinafter defined); and
"Subproject Agreements" means more than one (1) of said Subproject Agreements.
35. 
"Subproject Performance Indicators" means the indicators and targets set forth in
a Subproject Agreement to be fulfilled by the respective Service Provider or Water
Users' Association as conditions of sustainability of the respective Subproject for
the final payment of the Unit Costs of Outputs.
36. 
"Training" means the cost of training financed under the Project, on the basis of
the annual work plans and budgets referred to in Section I.D of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement, attributable to seminars, workshops, and study tours, along
with the cost of domestic and international travel and subsistence for training
participants, services of trainers, rental of training facilities, preparation and
reproduction of training materials, and other activities directly related to course
preparation and implementation.
37. 
"Unit Cost" means the pre-agreed unit cost of all goods, works, and consultants'
services required for the delivery of each of the Outputs of a Subproject, as
specified in the Project Financial Management Manual and the respective
Subproject Agreement; and "Unit Costs" means more than one such "Unit Cost".
38. 
"Water Storage Pond Subproject" means a specific activity under Part A of the
Project financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Section I.E. of the Schedule to the Project Agreement and carried out by the
farmers.
39. 
"Watercourse Improvement Subproject" means a specific activity under Part B of
the Project financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Section I.E of the Schedule to the Project Agreement and carried out
by a Service Provider; and "Watercourse Subprojects" means more than one (1)
such activity.
40. 
"Watercourse Improvement Subproject Agreement" means an agreement, referred
to in Section I.E.2 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, between the Project
Implementing Entity, represented by the Directorate General, Agriculture (Water
-24-
Management), and a Water Users' Association (as hereinafter defined), setting
forth the terms and conditions governing the implementation of a Watercourse
Improvement Subproject, and such term includes any annexes or schedules to such
agreement.
41. 
"Water Users' Association" means an autonomous association of irrigators and
other water users in a specific irrigation scheme, established pursuant to the
Borrower's laws, owning accounts, empowered to raise and retain revenue, and
having elected leadership, or a successor thereto; and "Water Users' Associations"
means more than one (1) such association.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1 .
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The BorrQwer shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. 
The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
-25-
Section III. 
Amendment to the Original Financing Agreement
The Original Financing Agreement is amended as follows:
The Closing Date at Section IV.B.2 of Schedule 2 of the Original Financing Agreement is
amended to read "December 31, 2019".
