OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8788-GE
Loan Agreement
(Additional Financing for East West Highway Corridor Improvement Project)
between
GEORGIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated as of the Signature Date, between GEORGIA ("Borrower") and
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT
("Bank") for the purpose of providing additional financing for additional activities to the
Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Borrower and the
Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of sixteen million and nine
hundred thousand Euros (E16,900,000), as such amount may be converted from
time to time through a Currency Conversion ("Loan"), to assist in financing the
project described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is equal to one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan
amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is equal to one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum
on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as
may apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May I and November 1 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
-2-
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall: (i) carry out Parts A, B.1, C, and D of the Project through
the Roads Department (RD); and (ii) carry out Part B.2 of the Project through the
Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development (MESD) with the assistance
of RD; all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions
and Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that the Co-
financing Agreement has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived
so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any
of its obligations under this Agreement.
4.02. 
The Co-financing Deadline for the effectiveness of the Co-financing Agreement is
June 30, 2018.
4.03. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the
Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The Borrower, through RD, has submitted to the Bank an updated Project
Operations Manual in form and substance acceptable to the Bank.
(b) 
The Project Implementation Agreement between MESD, RD, and TRRC
has been updated by the parties thereto in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
(c) 
The terms of reference for the independent auditors referred to in Section
5.09(b)(i) of the General Conditions have been prepared in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank and the Bank has given its no-objection
on said terms of reference.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the Signature Date.
-3-
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions,
(a) the Borrower's address is:
Ministry of Finance
16 Gorgasali Street
0114 Tbilisi
Georgia; and
(b) the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile: 
E-mail:
995322262423 
publicdebt@mof.ge
6.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions,
(a) the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
E-mail:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
mtembon(@hworldbank.org
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
GEORGIA
By
Authori;V 
epresentative
Name: 
A 40 
4/&r/
Date: 
V we 
s2
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
-Ale,r&q- 
e 
1ok
Title: 
e/a 
a 
c ,
Date: 
V_cAr4Z&,c
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) reduce road user costs along the East-West
Highway Corridor section upgraded under the Project; and (ii) strengthen the capacity of
the RD and MESD to respectively manage the road network and provide an enabling
environment to improve logistics services.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: Improvement and Asset Management of the East-West Highway Corridor
1. 
Upgrading of approximately 11 km of the existing two-lane East-West Highway
Corridor to a two-lane dual carriageway from Chumateleti to Khevi.
2. 
Carrying out construction supervision and providing quality assurance services for
all civil works financed under the Project and on the section of the road from
Chumateleti to Khevi within the East-West Highway Corridor.
Part B: Institutional Strengthening
1. 
Providing support for capacity building to the RD's Intelligent Transport System
(ITS) Unit, including: (i) design and installation of ITS equipment along critical
locations of the East-West Highway Corridor; and (ii) the development of annual
road users' satisfaction surveys.
2. 
Providing technical assistance to MESD for the following activities:
(i) 
the consolidation and further development of a national logistics strategy;
(ii) 
the creation of a public-private logistics steering committee for developing
a sustainable working relationship with the private sector;
(iii) 
the implementation of key activities identified in the national logistics
strategy developed under (i) above, or recommended by the public-private
steering committee set up under (ii) above, including, inter alia, a
feasibility study to identify priority logistics sites; and
(iv) 
capacity building 
in relation 
to logistics activities 
and 
Project
management.
-6-
Part C: Project Management
Strengthening the technical capacity of RD to carry out the Project.
Part D: Preparation of Future Investments
Preparation of designs and supporting studies for future investments for the
development of the road network.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arran2ements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower, through RD, shall be responsible for the overall coordination and
oversight of the Project implementation. To that end, the Borrower shall provide
RD with the resources and staff necessary for implementing the Project.
2. 
The Borrower, through RD, shall maintain, throughout the implementation of the
Project, a Foreign Projects Unit (FPU), with a composition, terms of reference, and
resources, satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through MRDI, shall: (a) operate and maintain the TRRC with a
composition, terms of reference, and resources, satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b) ensure that the financial management responsibilities under the Project is
carried out by TRRC in accordance with the Project Implementation Agreement.
4. 
Without limitation to the provision of Section 5.03 of the General Conditions, the
Borrower shall ensure that adequate budgetary resources are made available for
the Project in the Borrower's annual budgets in respect of each year of Project
implementation, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
B. 
Project Operations Manual
I. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the
Borrower, through RD, shall: (a) carry out the Project in accordance with the
Project Operations Manual (POM); and (b) not amend, revise or waive, nor allow
to be amended, revised or waived, the provisions of said POM or any part thereof
without the Bank's prior written consent.
2. 
In the event of any inconsistency between the POM and this Agreement, the
provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
C. 
Project Implementation Agreement
For purposes of coordinating the implementation of the Project, MESD, RD, and
TRRC shall update and maintain their respective Project Implementation
Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia, the obligations
set forth under this Schedule as applicable to RD, MESD and TRRC, respectively.
-8-
D. 
Safeguards
I. 
The Borrower, through RD, shall ensure that the Project is implemented in
accordance with the provisions of the ESIA, the ESMP, the RPF, and RAP(s) in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower shall not abrogate, amend or waive, or permit to be abrogated,
amended or waived, the ESIA, the ESMP, the RPF or the RAP(s) or any provision
thereof, without prior approval in writing by the Bank.
3. 
For works under the Project, if it is determined that Resettlement is involved, the
Borrower, through RD shall: (i) prior to the carrying out of any said works, prepare
and furnish to the Bank, a RAP acceptable to the Bank (which RAP(s) shall be
consistent with the pertinent provisions of the RPF); (ii) disclose and carry out
consultations for said RAP(s); and (iii) thereafter, implement said RAP(s) in
accordance with its terms and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
4. 
The Borrower through the RD, shall: (a) maintain satisfactory terms of reference
in respect of any consultancy in connection with the Project (including review of
the feasibility study and preparation of detailed engineering design described in
Part D of the Project) following the Bank's review thereof and; (b) ensure that such
terms of reference duly incorporate the requirements of the Bank's Safeguards
Policies then in force, as applied to the advice conveyed through such technical
assistance.
Section II. 
Pro*ect Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than forty
five days after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar semester.
B. 
Mid-Term Review
Without limitations to the provisions set forth in Section II.A. above, the Borrower,
through RD, shall:
1. 
not later than one month prior to the mid-term review referred to in paragraph 2
herein furnish to the Bank a report, in such scope and detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the progress of the Project as of the date of said report;
2. 
not later than December 31, 2019, undertake with the Bank, a comprehensive mid-
term review of the Project, based on the report mentioned in paragraph I herein,
including: compliance with the performance indicators and the Borrower's
obligations under this Agreement; and
-9-
3. 
following the mid-term review, act promptly and diligently in order to take any
corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted in the
implementation of the Project, or to implement such other measure as may be
required in furtherance of the objectives of the Project, resulting from said mid-
term review.
Section III. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and
in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the
Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible
Expenditures; and (b) pay: (i) the Front-end Fee and (ii) Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar premium; in the amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the
percentage set forth against each category of the following table:
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Category 
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in Euros) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non-
consulting services,
consultants' services,
Training, and Incremental
Operating Costs for the
Project except for Part B2
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
(2) Front-end Fee 
42,250 
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(3) Interest Rate Cap or 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar 
0 
Section 4.05(c) of the
premium 
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
16,0000
-10-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
I. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up
to an aggregate amount not to exceed twenty (20%) of the total Loan amount may
be made for payments made up to twelve months for Eligible Expenditures under
Category (1).
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2023.
-11-
SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share").
Level Principal Repayments
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
On each May I and November 1
Beginning May 1, 2033 
5.56%
through May 1, 2041
On November 1, 2041 
5.48%
-12-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions: (i) the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016, for all
activities under the Project except for Consultants' Services required for the
construction supervision of the section of the road from Chumateleti to Khevi
under Part A(2) of the Project; and (ii) the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011" for
Consultants' Services required for the construction supervision of the section of
the road from Chumateleti to Khevi under Part A(2) of the Project.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A. I of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
3. 
"Co-financier" means European Investment Bank (EIB).
4. 
"Co-financing" means, for purposes of paragraph 16 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, an approximate amount of seventy-five million and nine
hundred thousand euros (E75,900,000) to be provided by the Co-financier to assist
in financing the Project.
5. 
"Co-financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Co-financier providing for the Co-financing.
6. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers", dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
7. 
"Displaced Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of the
Project, would suffer direct economic and social impacts resulting in Resettlement.
8. 
"East-West Highway Corridor" means the highway corridor of approximately
450 km, comprising of the sections of highway E-60 (between Red Bridge, at the
border with Azerbaijan, to Poti) and highway E-70 (between Poti to Sarpi, at the
border with Turkey), all within the Borrower's territory, and as highways E-60 and
E-70 are defined in the European Agreement on Main International Traffic Arteries
(AGR) signed at Geneva on November 15, 1975.
9. 
"Environmental and Social Impact Assessment" or "ESIA" means the Borrower's
environmental and social impact assessment report for the Project applicable to the
-13-
Project and to the works referred to in Section I.D.3 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and included in the ESIA; satisfactory to the Bank, and disclosed in the
Borrower's territory and published in the Bank's external website on April 5, 2017,
which sets forth, inter alia, the mitigating, monitoring and institutional measures
to be taken during the implementation and operation of the Project to offset or
reduce potential adverse environmental and social impacts to levels acceptable to
the Bank.
10. 
"Environmental and Social Management Plan" or "ESMP" means, the plan
included in the ESIA, prepared by the Borrower in accordance with the ESIA,
applicable to the Project and to the works referred to in Section I.D.3 of Schedule
2 to this Agreement; in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, and setting
forth, inter alia: (i) the measures for mitigating the environmental risks and
impacts associated with the implementation of Project activities; (ii) the measures
for eliminating, offsetting or mitigating any adverse cultural resources impact; and
(iii) the 
administrative 
and monitoring arrangements 
for ensuring 
the
implementation of said plans, as said plans may be revised from time to time with
the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any annexes or
schedules to such plans.
11. 
"Foreign Projects Unit" or "FPU" means the division established within the RD
responsible for the implementation of projects financed through external funding,
and referred to under Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
12. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project
Financing", dated July 14, 2017, with the modifications set forth in Section II of
this Appendix.
13. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the reasonable and necessary incremental
expenses incurred by the Borrower with respect to Project implementation,
including: management and monitoring costs, salaries of contracted staff
(excluding salaries of the Borrower's civil servants), communication, editing,
printing and publication, translation, vehicle operation and maintenance, bank
charges, local travel costs and field trip expenses, office rentals, utilities,
equipment and supplies.
14. 
"MESD" means the Borrower's Ministry of Economy 
and Sustainable
Development, or any legal successor thereto.
15. 
"MRDI" 
means the Borrower's Ministry of Regional Development and
Infrastructure, or any legal successor thereto.
-14-
16. 
"Original Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement for the East West Highway
Corridor Improvement Project between the Borrower and the Bank, dated February
10, 2016, as amended to the date of this Agreement (Loan No 8547-GE).
17. 
"Original Project" means the Project described in Schedule I to the Original Loan
Agreement.
18. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
September 20, 2017 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
19. 
"Procurement Regulations" means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for
Borrowers under Investment Project Financing", dated July 1, 2016 (revised on
May 26, 2017).
20. 
"Project Implementation Agreement" means the agreement referred to in
Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as said agreement may be amended
from time to time with the approval of the Bank.
21. 
"Project Operations Manual" or "POM" means the Borrower's manual dated
March 16, 2016, as revised, acceptable to the Bank, including all appendices and
schedules thereto, and setting forth the policies and procedures that apply to the
carrying out of the Project, including, inter alia: (a) the roles and responsibilities
of the RD, MESD, and TRRC; (b) the staffing requirements for the Project; (c) the
estimated implementation schedule; (d) the procedures for accessing, disbursing
and accounting for funds under the Project; (e) the procedures for Project
monitoring, supervision and evaluation, including the format and content of the
Project Reports; and (f) the procurement and financial management procedures, as
said manual may be amended from time to time with the prior written approval of
the Bank.
22. 
"RD" means the Borrower's Roads Department of the MRDI responsible for
managing the Borrower's road network or any legal successor thereto, acceptable
to the Bank.
23. 
"Resettlement" means: (a) the involuntary taking of land resulting in: (i) relocation
or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; and (iii) loss of income
sources or means of livelihood, whether or not the affected persons must move to
another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated
parks and protected areas resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihoods of said
person.
-15-
24. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" or "RAP" means the resettlement action plan,
including any abbreviated resettlement plan, to be adopted by the Borrower, in
accordance with the RPF and this Agreement; satisfactory to the Bank and
containing, inter alia, a program of actions, measures and policies for
compensation and resettlement of Displaced Persons, including compensation and
resettlement arrangements, budget and cost estimates, and sources of funding,
together with adequate institutional, monitoring and reporting arrangements capable
of ensuring proper implementation of, and regular feedback on, compliance with its
terms for each site.
25. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the Borrower's resettlement
policy framework, acceptable to the Bank, applicable to the Project and to the
works referred to in Section I.D.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and included in
the ESIA; disclosed in country on May 18, 2015 and in the Bank's external website
on May 27, 2015, as updated and disclosed in country and through the Bank's
external website on April 5, 2017 
setting forth, inter alia, the modalities for
resettlement and compensation of Displaced Persons under the Project.
26. 
"Safeguards 
Policies" means the World Bank's operational 
policies and
procedures then in force, and which currently are set forth in the World Bank's
Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04, 4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37,
7.50 and 7.60 as said manual is published under www.WorldBank.org/opmanual.
27. 
"Signature Date" means the latest of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applied to all references to "the
date of the Loan Agreement" in the General Conditions.
28. 
"Training" means expenditures incurred by the Borrower in connection with
carrying out training activities under the Project, including travel costs and per diem
for local trainees, study tours, workshops, conferences, rental of facilities and
equipment and training materials and related supplies.
29. 
"TRRC" means the Borrower's Investment Center of Eurasian Transport Corridor
established pursuant to Decree No. 153, dated April 3, 2015, or any legal successor
thereto acceptable to the Bank.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1 .
Section 5.13 (Procurement) is modified to read as follows:
(a) 
All goods, works and services required for the Project (except those
referred to in subparagraph (b) below) and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
-16-
requirements set forth or referred to in the Procurement Regulations
(except as referred to in subparagraph (b) below) and the provisions of the
Procurement Plan.
(b) 
(i) 
Consultants' Services required for the construction supervision of
the section of the road from Chumateleti to Khevi under Part A(2)
of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Sections I, 11 and IV of the Consultant Guidelines
and with the provisions of this paragraph.
(ii) 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this paragraph
to describe particular procurement methods or methods of review
by the Bank of particular contracts required for the construction
supervision of the section of the road from Chumateleti to Khevi
under Part A(2) of the Project refer to the corresponding method
described in Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.
(iii) 
The following method may be used for the procurement of
consultants' services required for the construction supervision of
the section of the road from Chumateleti to Khevi under Part A(2)
of the Project, namely Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
(iv) 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall
be subject to the Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall
be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
