OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8734-GD
Loan Agreement
(OECS Regional Tourism Competitiveness Project)
between
GRENADA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
-P 
1 
0 
,2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
AT 
I 
o 
, 2017, between GRENADA
("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of six million Dollars ($6,000,000), as
such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion
in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to
assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement
("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided,
that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the
General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the Borrower
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General
Conditions.
-2-
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and in coordination with the other two
Participating Countries, and shall enter into the Subsidiary Agreement with Saint
Lucia for the purposes of implementation of Part A. 2 (a) of the Project.
-3-
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV- EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following:
The Saint Lucia Financing Agreement and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Financing Agreement and all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of said
Financing Agreements (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement) have been
fulfilled.
4.02 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister for Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Financial Complex
The Carenage
St. Georges
GRENADA
Facsimile:
1-473-440-4115
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at D)bCt Of 
du1mba., UVIWd S+tea 
fAkevic, 
as of
the day and year first above written.
GRENADA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: by 
Ke6k A4ih I I
Title: yimW" 
W 4 t 
y
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: Tohsem Sayed kMhn
Title: 
Y\UCRN 
I 
Y^
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) facilitate the movement of tourists within
the Participating Countries using ferries; (b) improve selected tourism sites; and (c)
strengthen implementation capacity for regional tourism market development.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: Facilitation of the Movement of People
1. Establishment of a single regional space for immigration and customs
regulations for international tourists, including:
(a) 
at the national level, through the rehabilitation of domestic ferry
terminals of the Borrower to upgrade them into international
terminals; and
(b) 
at the regional level through the provision of technical assistance
for:
(i) 
the country-level implementation of decisions made at a
regional level for the facilitation of the movement of
people and goods, including the implementation of any
revisions to the existing regional immigration system, to
the OECS Treaty or other treaties of the Participating
Countries for the creation of a single economic space, and
any other policy/regulatory changes aimed at the
facilitation of the movement of people and goods that
would require country-level implementation; and
(ii) 
introduction of a simplified immigration and customs
clearance system for the Participating Countries' ferry
vessels that would allow them to submit their customs
declarations and other required documents in the form of
electronic notifications, prior to arrival to their destination
("Sail Clear" system).
2. Development of a pilot regional ferry system corridor, including:
(a) 
establishing a temporary Ferry Services Fund for providing Ferry
Services Incentives to selected ferry operators to encourage ferry
transportation within the territories of the Participating Countries;
-6-
(b) 
providing technical assistance, software and hardware for
development of a centralized ferry scheduling system;
(c) 
providing technical assistance to review the legal, institutional
and operational framework related to water transport, safety
standards and their enforcement; and
(d) 
supporting the dialogue between the Borrower's government and
ferry operators.
Part B: Pilot Tourism Investments
1. Carrying out infrastructure improvements and rehabilitation works for the
Fort George historic site, including preparation of technical studies and
design plans for such investments and works.
2. Provision of assistance with the preparation of a tourism development
framework for the Island of Carriacou.
Part C: Market Development and Promotion Capacity Building
1. Providing assistance to the Borrower in strengthening its tourism market
development capacity, including, inter alia, the preparation and
implementation of its tourism development plan, tourism environmental
planning and management, financial and economic impact assessment,
strengthening its social media presence, enhancing online presence and
carrying out outreach work.
2. Carrying out of the activities to develop and implement a regional market
development program for attracting new markets and consolidating
existing ones, including preparing a regional market strategy and
developing an IT platform for the region's travel marketing, training and
participating in regional trade fares.
Part D: Project Implementation Support
1. Strengthening the capacity of the PCU and Project implementing agencies
for Project management and coordination, including monitoring and
evaluation, audits, recruitment of relevant staff, Training and financing of
Incremental Operating Costs.
2. Carrying out the Project impact evaluation.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional Arrangements
1. 
Regional Steering Committee
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in coordination with other Participating
Countries and to that effect shall establish, jointly with other Participating
Countries, not later than ninety (90) days from the date of this Agreement, the
Regional Steering Committee with a composition, mandate, and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank and shall delegate its representatives to said Committee.
2. 
Project Steering Committee
(a) The Borrower shall, not later than by May 1, 2017, establish and thereafter
maintain at all times during the implementation of the Project, a PSC with a
composition, mandate, terms of reference and resources satisfactory to the
Bank.
(b) The PSC shall meet at least twice a year and shall be responsible for providing
oversight on Project implementation, including, inter alia: (i) assessing Project
results and recommending adjustments where needed; (ii) facilitating
coordination of Project activities and ensuring synergies with other projects
activities, and (iii) incorporating the recommendations of the Regional
Steering Committee into the Project.
3. 
Project Coordination Unit
(a) The Borrower shall maintain and operate at all times during the
implementation of the Project the PCU, with the structure, functions, terms of
reference, resources and competent staff, all satisfactory to the Bank and
adequate to carry out both the national and regional Project related activities.
(b) To ensure the effective implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall, not
later than by May 1, 2017, recruit the Project Manager, with the experience
and qualifications, and under terms of reference, all satisfactory to the Bank.
-8-
B. 
Project Operational Manual
1. 
The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with, the Project
Operational Manual.
2. 
Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower
shall not abrogate, amend, suspend or waive the Project Operational Manual, or
any provision thereof.
3. 
In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of the Project Operational
Manual and the provisions of this Agreement, the provision of this Agreement shall
prevail.
C. 
Ferry Services Fund
1. 
In implementing Part A. 2 (a) of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a) select each Ferry Operator in accordance with eligibility criteria set
forth in the Ferry Services Fund Manual;
(b) enter into a Ferry Services Agreement, consistent with the model
agreement set forth in the Ferry Services Fund Manual, with each Ferry
Operator for the purposes of provision to the respective Ferry Operator
of Ferry Services Incentives; and
(c) exercise its right and carry out its obligations under each Ferry Service
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Project, and, except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate, waive, terminate or fail to enforce any Ferry Services
Agreement or any provision thereof.
2. 
In case of any inconsistency among the provisions of the Ferry Services
Agreement, the Ferry Services Fund Manual and the provisions of this Agreement,
the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
D. 
Subsidiary Agreement
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of Part A. 2 (a) of the Project, the Borrower shall
make part of the proceeds of the Loan in the amount of two hundred thousand
Dollars ($200,000) available to Saint Lucia under a subsidiary agreement between
the Borrower and Saint Lucia, under terms and conditions approved by the Bank
("Subsidiary Agreement").
-9-
2. 
The resources to be provided by the Borrower to Saint Lucia under the Subsidiary
Agreement shall be used exclusively for the purposes of Part A. 2 (a) of the Project
and in accordance with the criteria, procedures and requirements set forth in the
Ferry Services Fund Manual.
3. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the
Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive,
terminate or fail to enforce the Subsidiary Agreement or any provisions thereof.
E. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
F. 
Safeguards
1 .
The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with the relevant
Safeguards Instruments, and, to that end, shall:
(a) 
if any activity under the Project would require the adoption of any
Supplemental Social and Environmental Safeguard Instrument:
(i) 
prepare: (A) such Supplemental Social and Environmental
Safeguard Instrument in accordance with ESMF and RPF;
(B) furnish such Supplemental Social and Environmental
Safeguard Instrument to the Bank for review and approval; and
(C) thereafter adopt such Supplemental Social and Environmental
Safeguard Instrument prior to implementation of the activity; and
(ii) 
thereafter take such measures as shall be necessary or appropriate
to ensure full compliance with the requirements of such
Supplemental Social and Environmental Safeguard Instrument;
and
(b) 
if any activity under the Project would involve Affected Persons, ensure
that no displacement (including restriction of access to legally designated
parks and protected areas) shall occur before resettlement measures under
the respective Supplemental Social and Environmental Safeguard
Instrument, including, in the case of displacement, full payment to
Affected Persons of compensation and of other assistance required for
relocation, have been implemented in compliance with the provisions of
said instrument, and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
- 10 -
2. 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph I above, prior to contracting of
works for each proposed site under the Project, the Borrower shall: (a) submit to
the Bank for its prior approval: (i) the proposed design, including site location, for
said works and, where required by the respective Safeguard Instrument or local
legislation, as applicable, any related environmental documents which may include
licenses and permits; and (ii) the proposed contract for said works to ensure that
the provisions of the respective Supplemental Social and Environmental Safeguard
Instrument are adequately included in said contract; and (b) ensure that such works
are carried out in accordance with the respective Safeguard Instrument.
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that no works for a specific part of the Project requiring
resettlement and/or land acquisition are commenced until the respective
Supplemental Social and Environmental Safeguard Instrument for said part of the
Project is fully implemented.
4. 
The Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive Safeguards Instruments
or any provision thereof, without the prior approval of the Bank. In the event of
any inconsistency between the provisions of any Safeguards Instrument and the
provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
5. 
The Borrower, through PCU, shall ensure that the terms of reference for any
consultancies related to the technical assistance provided under the Project shall
duly incorporate the requirement of the Bank's Safeguard Policies then in force,
as applied to the advice conveyed through such technical assistance.
Section H. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project
Report shall cover a period of six (6) months, and shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than one (1) month after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1 .
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45)
days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for
the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
- 11 -
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. 
Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1 .
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections H and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1 .
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures.
2. Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive
Bidding; (b) Shopping; (c) Procurement under Framework Agreements in
accordance with procedures which have been found acceptable to the Bank; (d)
Direct Contracting; and (e) Force Account.
- 12 -
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) 
Selection under a Fixed
Budget; 
(c) Least Cost Selection; (d) Selection based on Consultants'
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Selection of
UNOPS; (g) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants; and (h) Single-source
procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
E. 
Procurement of Incremental Operating Costs
Given the nature of the expenditures under the Incremental Operating Costs
category, such expenditure may be procured in accordance with the established
administrative procedures of the Borrower acceptable to the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised
from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant
to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
- 13 -
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) 
financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non- 
5,785,000 
100%
consulting services,
consultants' services,
Training and Incremental
Operating Costs for the
Project
(2) 
Ferry 
Services 
200,000 
100%
Incentives under Part A. 2
(a) of the Project
(3) Front-end Fee 
15,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(4) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest 
Rate 
Collar 
Section 2.08(c) of this
premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
6,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 may be
made for payments made prior to this date but on or after March 1, 2017,
for Eligible Expenditures under Category (1); or
(b) 
under Category (2) for Ferry Services Incentives to eligible Ferry
Operators, unless the Borrower has: (i) entered into the Subsidiary
Agreement, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, and all
conditions precedent to the effectiveness of said Subsidiary Agreement
(other than the effectiveness of this Agreement) have been fulfilled; and
(ii) adopted the Ferry Services Fund Manual, satisfactory to the Bank.
2. 
The Closing Date is September 1, 2023.
- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each March 15 and September 15 
2.44%
Beginning March 15, 2027
through September 15, 2046
On March 15, 2047 
2.40%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
- 15 -
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
- 16 -
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Affected Person" means a person who as a result of: (i) the involuntary taking of
land under the Project is affected in any of the following ways: (A) relocation or
loss of shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources
or means of livelihood, whether or not the affected person must move to another
location; or (ii) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and
protected areas suffers adverse impacts on his or her livelihood; and "Affected
Persons" means the plural thereof.
2. 
Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and
Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
4. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
5. 
"ESMF" means the Environmental and Social Management Framework prepared
and adopted by the Borrower for the purposes of the Project, satisfactory to the
Bank, and disclosed in the Borrower's country on November 1, 2016 and in the
Bank's Infoshop on November 7, 2016, which sets forth, inter alia, (a) the
modalities for site-specific environmental screening, including measures for
chance finding of cultural property, pest management, protection of natural
habitats; (b) guidelines for the identification of existing environmental and social
conditions and potential direct and indirect environmental and social impacts and
risks resulting from the carrying out of the Project; (c) guidelines for the carrying
out of environmental assessments and the preparation of Environmental
Management Plans, when applicable; (d) recommendation of mitigation measures
for each negative impact identified; (e) measures for enhancing each identified
positive impact; and (f) guidelines for the preparation of environmental and social
monitoring plans for tracking the application of the mitigation measures, as said
framework may be amended from time to time with the Bank's prior approval.
6. 
"Environmental Management Plan" or "EMP" means a site specific environmental
management plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to be prepared by the Borrower
pursuant to the provisions of ESMF, as such plan may be amended from time to
time with the prior written approval of the Bank, and "EMPs" means the plural
thereof.
- 17 -
7. 
"Ferry Operator" means a ferry operator selected for the purposes of the Ferry
Services Fund under Part A. 2 (a) of the Project in accordance with the criteria and
procedures set forth in the Ferry Services Fund Manual.
8. 
"Ferry Services Agreement" means an agreement executed or proposed to be
executed between the Borrower and each Ferry Operator pursuant to Section I. C
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and consistent with the model agreement set forth
in the Ferry Services Fund Manual.
9. 
"Ferry Services Fund" means a temporary financial facility to be established by
the Participating Countries under Part A. 2 (a) of the Project for the purposes of
facilitating ferry transportation within the territories of the Participating Countries,
including provision of financial incentives to selected Ferry Operators.
10. 
"Ferry Services Fund Manual" means a manual to be prepared by the Borrower for
the purposes of operation of the Ferry Services Fund and satisfactory to the Bank,
which shall include, inter alia, the objectives and description of the activities to be
facilitated and encouraged by the Fund, the criteria and procedures for the selection
of Ferry Operators, technical, operational, safety and environmental standards,
requirements and procedures to be complied with by Ferry Operators, as well as a
Model Ferry Services Agreement, as such Manual may be amended from time to
time with the Bank's prior agreement.
11. 
"Ferry Services Incentives" means temporary monetary payments to be paid to
Ferry Operators pursuant to the respective Ferry Services Agreement on a periodic
basis from the Ferry Services Fund in accordance with the procedures and at rates
set forth in the Ferry Services Fund Manual, with such rates taking into account,
inter alia, the number and the length of the routes serviced by the respective Ferry
Operator within the determined period of time.
12. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
13. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means incremental costs incurred by the PCU on
account of the Project coordination, implementation and monitoring, including
expenditures for vehicles operation and maintenance, office supplies and
consumables, utilities, communication, translation and interpretation, bank
charges, Project related travel, including per diem and 
accommodation (but
excluding salaries of the Borrower's civil servants) and other miscellaneous costs
directly associated with the Project implementation, all based on periodic budgets
acceptable to the Bank.
14. 
"IT" means information technology.
- 18 -
15. 
"OECS Treaty" means the Treaty establishing the Organization of Eastern
Caribbean States executed at Basseterre on June 18, 1981, as amended.
16. 
"Participating Countries" means jointly Grenada, Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines and Saint Lucia, and "Participating Country" means any one of these
countries.
17. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
18. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
January 23, 2017 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines
and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
19. 
"Project Coordination Unit" or "PCU' means the Project Coordination Unit within
the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and referred to in paragraph 3 of Section I. A
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
20. 
"Project Operational Manual" means the manual prepared by the Borrower for the
purposes of the Project and satisfactory to the Bank, which shall contain a detailed
description of the Project, 
procedures for implementation of the Project,
institutional arrangements, all consistent with the provisions of this Agreement and
with applicable laws and regulations and including, inter alia, timetables of actions
required to be carried out under the Project, staffing, the fiduciary, technical and
operational aspects and procedures, including the financial management
procedures (budgeting, accounting and internal control, disbursement and flow of
funds, financial reporting, annual reports, internal and external audit arrangements
procedures and including the Project specific chart of accounts), procurement
procedures, the ESMF and the RPF, monitoring and evaluation arrangements, and
other fiduciary and administrative arrangements and necessary terms of reference,
as the same may be amended from time to time by agreement with the Bank.
21. 
"Project Steering Committee" or "PSC" means the committee established by the
Borrower for the purposes of overall Project guidance and supervision and referred
to in paragraph 2 of Section I. A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
22. 
"Regional Steering Committee" means the committee established by the Borrower
jointly with the other two Participating Countries for the purposes of coordination
of the Project regional activities and referred to in paragraph 1 of Section I. A of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
23. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" or "RAP" means a site specific resettlement action
plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to be prepared by the Borrower pursuant to the
- 19 -
provisions of RPF for compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected
Persons, in connection with the works to be implemented under the Project, as such
plan may be amended from time to time with the prior written approval of the
Bank, and "RAPs" means the plural thereof.
24. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means 
" means the document
prepared by the Borrower for the purposes of the Project, satisfactory to the Bank,
and disclosed in the Borrower's country on November 1, 2016 and in the Bank's
InfoShop on November 7, 2016, satisfactory to the Bank, defining the modalities
for resettlement under the Project, including land acquisition, and describing the
policies, procedures, plans and actions (including preparation of Resettlement
Action Plans), and institutional measures related to land acquisition and other
social impacts that may arise during the Project implementation, as said framework
may be amended from time to time with the Bank's prior approval.
25. 
"Safeguards Instruments" means ESMF, RPF and all Supplemental Social and
Environmental Safeguard Instruments, and "Safeguards Instrument" means any
one of these instruments.
26. 
"Safeguard Policies" means the Bank's operational policies and procedures set
forth in the Bank's Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04, 4.07, 4.09, 4.10,
4.11, 
4.12, 
4.36 
and 
4.37, 
as 
said 
manual 
is 
published 
under
www.WorldBank.orgLopmanual.
27. 
"Saint Lucia Financing Agreement" means the agreement between Saint Lucia and
the Association for the Project, dated the same date as this Agreement, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time. 
"Saint Lucia Financing
Agreement" includes all appendices, schedules and agreements supplemental to
the Financing Agreement.
28. 
"Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Financing Agreement" means the financing
agreement between Saint Vincent and the Grenadines and the Association for the
Project, dated the same date as this Agreement, as such financing agreement may
be amended from time to time. "Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Financing
Agreement" includes all appendices, schedules and agreements supplemental to
the Financing Agreement.
29. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the Subsidiary Agreement entered into between
the Borrower and Saint Lucia for the purposes of Part A.2 (a) of the Project
pursuant to Section I.D of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
30. 
"Supplemental Social and Environmental Safeguard Instrument" means any EMP,
RAP, physical cultural heritage resource management plan or other site specific
supplemental social and environmental safeguard instruments as may be required
- 20 -
under the terms of ESMF or RPF, and "Supplemental Social and Environmental
Safeguard Instruments" means the plural thereof.
31. 
"Training" means Project related study tours, training courses, seminars,
workshops and other training activities, not included under service providers'
contracts, including costs of training materials, space and equipment rental, travel,
accommodation and per diem costs of trainees and trainers, trainers' fees, and other
training related miscellaneous costs.
32. 
"UNOPS" means the United Nations Office for Project Services.
Section H. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1 .
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. 
The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
-21-
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any
prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of
a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable
upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any
Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
