OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8704-CN
Loan Agreement
(Poyang Lake Basin Town Water Environment Management Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
eb 
, 2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8704-CN
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
2 "-,,e 
6 
2017, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
OF CHINA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ('Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLET I.- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred:to in this Agreement, theanount of one himdred and-fifty million Dollars
($150, 000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percenti(025%),ofth LatodttAnt.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, however,.that the interest payable shall in no event be less than zero
percent (0%) per annum; and provided furthermore that, upon a Conversion of all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the
Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance
reiai~ whn dueand iicli 
bn-aynent continues-for a periiodof'try
-2-
days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as
provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the.terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rite, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstaiding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on. a Fixed Spread; and,(iii) the setting of
limits on the VariableRateor the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn andtoutstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested-pursuant to paragraph (a) of this.Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisi6f#s of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
2.09. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure
.
Limit (as said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of
this Section), the Borrower shall pay to the Bank a sircharge at the rate of
one half of one percent (0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess
Exposure Amount (as defined in. sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for
each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if any)
shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on.each Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set
forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means-for each day during
which the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit,
-3-
the product of: (A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the
ratio of all (or, if the Bank so determines, a portion) of the Loan
to the aggregate amount of all (or the equivalent portions) of the
loans made by the Bank to the Borrower and to other borrowers
guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an exposure
surcharge, as said excess-and ratio are reasonably determined from
time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the
Bank's financial exposure. to the Borrower which, if, exceeded,
would subject the Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined
from time to time by the Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total
financial exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by
the Bank.
ARTICLE I- 
PROJECT
3.01. 
The.Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project -to be carried out by the Project
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and the Project Agreement,
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensUre that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV- EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE V 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's% 
Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Xicheng District
Beijing140820
People Rpublic of China
-4-
Facsimile:
(86-10) 6855-2077
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
AGREED at Beijing, People's Republic of China, as of the day and year first above
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By
Authoriied Representative
Nam e: '"' 
7 ~ -
Title:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
s1t
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized epresentative
Name:________
TitlIe:T54.~'~
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to reduce the pollutant discharge into selected
waterways, and improve management of water quality, in selected counties in the Poyang
Lake basin within Jiangxi Province.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Institutional Strengthening for Water Management
(a) 
Establishment of the lake management platform designed to strengthen the
Poyang Lake basin's management, institutional and knowledge sharing
architectuie.
(b) 
Establishment of water environment monitoring systems.
(c) 
Preparation of studies related to ecological protection of the Poyang Lake.
(d) 
Preparation of a sensitivity-assessment of Poyang Lake.
(e) 
Enhancement 
of 
participatory 
sustainable Poyang Lake basin
management through such measures as: (i) disclosure, to the public and
grassroots level organizations, information on the Poyang Lake protection;
(ii) provision of training on Water environment manageient to personnel
of organizations responsible for water environment monitoring and
enorcerpent of environmental laws and regulations; and (iii) ensuring
soundess of infrastructure design and operational sustainability, through
. public outreach activities to raise environmental awareness at county,
village and community levels.
Part 2: Lake and River Restoration and Im&ovement of Wastewater Management
(a) 
Restoration of the lake and river environment of selected waterways in
PoyangLake basini through (i) "structural" restoration measures such as
consttiction-of bio-retention swales, removal of a small amount of lake
sediment to reduce the inner lake pollution source, development of
constructed wetlands designed to remove pollutants from storm water to
be discharged int6 the lakes; 
and rehabilitation of water diversion
structures; and (ii) "non-structural" restoration measures such. as
introduction and coordination of. best farmland practices and related
tehilguidahce 6iotes and sound aqua-culture practices.
(b) 
Enhancement of wastewater management: (i) in urban areas, through
construction of wastewater interceptors and storm water collection
pipelines, as well as associated roads rehabilitation; (ii) in rural areas,
-6-
through construction of rural wastewater systems comprising, inter alia,
construction of small wastewater treatment facilities and establishment of
household wastewater connections.
Part 3: Improvements in Solid Waste Management
Improve solid waste management through such measures as provision of solid
waste bins and collection vehicles; construction of solid waste collection and
transfer stations; installation of local solid waste management information
systems; and investments at the village level for the improvement of solid waste
collection.
Part 4: Project Implementation Support
Supporting the overall capacity of the Project Implementing Entity to coordinate,
manage and supervise the implementation of the Project, including: (a) provision
of consulting services to enhance engineering design, construction supervision,
and environmental and social management; (b) carrying out of capacity building
actiities through workshops, training and study-tours; (c) carrying out of financial
management, procurement, contract supervision and monitoring and evaluation
including procurement of external social, resettlement and environmental
monitoring services 
and (d) the operation of Project management offices
(including the purchase of office equipment).
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section 1. 
Implementation Arran2ements
A. 
Financing Arrangements
1 
For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall make available the
proceeds of the Loan to the Project Implementing Entity, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including the following principal terms:
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars or any other
Currency as the Loan may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion (such principal amount determined on the date, or
respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of the value of the
currency or currencies so withdrawn.
(b) 
The principal amount so made available (including an amount equal to the
fee paid purguat to Section 2.61 of this Agreemert itd any premium for
..
rte. Aps or testr 
te Collars paid pursuantt Setion 2.08(c)
of t'-iA"'ient and Section 4.05(:) of-ihe dneri otditions) shall be
recove 
over a peod of tweriy-fiv (25) years, inilusive of a grace
period of eight (8) years.
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of
Section 2.05 of this Agreement.
(d) 
A Commitment Charge shall be charged equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to: (a) manage, operate,
monitor, transfer and reconcile the proceeds of the Loan made available to it
pursuant to paragraph 1 above in accordance with arrangements and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank; (b) take all required actions, including provision of timely
consents and approvals as may be necessary, to facilitate the utilization of said
Loan proceeds and the implementation of the Project and, to enable the Project
Implementing Entity to comply with its undertakings under the Project
Agreement; and (c) maintain all relevant records and documents related to the
Loan and the Project and provide promptly such documents and records, including
all other information, as may be requested by the Borrower or the Bank from time
to time.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall take, and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to take,
all measures necessary to ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with
the provisions of the Safeguards Instruments and Section I.C of the Schedule to
the Project Agreement.
2. 
In the event of a conflict between the provisions of any of the Safeguards
Instruments and those of this Agreement or the Project Agreement, the terms of
this Agreement or the Project Agreement shall govern.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reportine and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrowershall. cause the Project Implementing Entity to monitor and evaluate
the progress of the Projept and prepare Project Repqrts.in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the
indicators agreed with the Bank and set forth in Project Implementation Plan. Each
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be
furished to the Bank not later than sixty (60) days after the end of the period
covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Fipancial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrwer shal maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the Bank as part
ofiths,Project 4eport not later than sixty (60) days after the end of each calendar
semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the semester,
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project linplenenting Entity to. have its Financial
Stat;mept4u 
i accordance with the provisions of Section 5,09 (b) of the
Geneial Conditio 
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period
of onea scal year qf theBorrowir. The audited Financial Statements for each such
period sl 
be furnishedto the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of
-9-
such period. The Borrower shall make, or cause the Project Implementing Entity
to make, the audited Financial Statements publicly available in a timely fashion
and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
Section M. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1 .
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement 6meth6s ot ihiethis of review by the Bank of partiklar contracts
refeo the corresp6nding method described in Sections II and iII of the
Prociuremnent Guidelines or S tin II, II Wand V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case"nay lie.
B. 
Particular Mtihods of Procurement of Goods, Works anid Non-consulting
Services
International Cometitivel iddhig: Ekeept asotherwise provided in-paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
cotidcts awardd on the basis- of lterniionai 
Cbmpetitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The followinig methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procirement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
th6se contracts specified in the Procurement Plin (a)"Natidal Competitive
Bidding, suibjectto th additional provi ions set forth in the box belov; (b) Direct
Contractitig; and (d) Shopping.
The prodedurs applicbl 
the procurement of goods, works, and non-consulting
servical thnder4on 
ptf 
difided othe basis 
4 
fNhtior' i0"omdetitive Bidding ("NCB")
sliall l the open it 
rin 
oeauir 
set forth in theBorroer Law on Tendering
and Biddig fti d 
tU by, its 
rde No. 21 dated August 30, 1999; provided,
hoWevir, tht liich 196- e 
' 
A11ll 6e sub et to the provisiois of Section I,
- 10 -
Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of Section III, and Appendix I of the Procurement Guidelines,
and the additional provisions in the following. In the event of a conflict between the
Borrower's procedures and these NCB Procedure Modifications, the latter shall govern.
(i) 
Eligibility to participate in a procurement process and to be awarded a Bank-
financed contract shall be as defined under Section I of the Procurement
Guidelines; accordingly, no bidder or potential bidder shall be declared
ineligible for such contract for reasons other than those provided in Section I of
the Procurement Guidelines. No restriction based on nationality of bidders
and/or origin of goods shall apply, and foreign bidders shall be allowed to
participate in NCB without application of restrictive conditions.
(ii) 
All invitations to prequalify or bid shall be advertised in a national newspaper
of wide circulation in the Borrower's country, or on a,widely used website /
electronic portal with free national and international access acceptable to the
Bank except for goods or-non-consulting services contracts that are estimated to
cost less, than $300,000 equivalent each, or works contracts that are estimated to
cost less than $2,000,000 each, which may be advertised in a provincial daily
newspaper. Such advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for prospective
bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding documents and prepare and submit
their-responses, In any event, a minimum of thirty (30) days shall be given to
bidders between the date of such advertisement (or the date of availability of
bidding documents,. Whichever is later) and the deadline for the submission of
bids, and the advertisement and biddihg, documents shall specify the deadline
for the submission of bids. In the case of such-advertisement on a website /
electronic portal, the notice shall remain readily accessible nationally and
internationally: until at least the deadline for the submission of bids. Potential
biddersshall be allowed to inspect and purchase bidding documents at any time
prior to the deadline for the submission of bids.
(iii) 
Standard Bidding Documents acceptable to the B4nk shall be used.
(iv) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of evaluating the
qualification of each bidder shall be specified in detail in the bidding documents.
(y) 
Prequalification procedures and documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used
for large, complex- and/or- specialized works. Verifldation of the information
uponwhich a bidder was prequalified, including,current.commitments, shall be
carried-ut at the time-of contract award, along with the bidder's capability with
respect to personnel and equipment. All bidders that meet the qualification
criteria set,out. i:n the pre-qualification documents shall be allowed to bid, and
thee shall be no limit on the:number of prequa-clified bidders. Where pre-
qualificatioi is not used, the iualificationrof ihbidder who is recommended for
award of contract shall be- assessed by post-qualification, applying the
qualification criteria stated in the bidding documents.
-11 -
(vi) 
Registration shall not be used to assess bidders' qualifications. A bidder shall
not be required to register as a condition for inspecting or purchasing bidding
documents, submitting its bid or receiving contract award. A bidder determined
to be the lowest evaluated responsive bidder, shall be given reasonable
opportunity of registering (if required) before contract signing without any let
or hindrance. Bidding shall not be restricted to any particular class of
contractors, and non-classified contractors shall also be eligible to bid.
(vii) 
No margins of preference of any sort shall be given to bidders, such as on the
basis of their location, place ofincorporation, or affinity with the geographical
area in which the Project activities will take place.
(viii) 
All bidders who are awarded contracts for works and single-responsibility
contracts shall be required to provide performance security in an amount
sufficient to protect the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity / Entities,
as the case may be, in case of breach of contract by the contractor, and the
biddingdocuments shall.specify the required form-and amount of such security
and any other potential damages for such breach.
(ix) 
Bidders shall be allowed to submit bids by mail or in person.
(x) 
All bids shall be opened inpublic, all bidders shalibe offered an opportunity to
be present (either in person or through their representatives) at the time of bid
opening, but bidders shall ot be required to be present at the bid opening.
(xi) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed i'r the bidding documents and
quanitifiedin monetary,terms or expressed in the form of pass/fail requirements.
(xii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price exceeds any cost
est ifiate or falls outside any margin or bracket of prices or average bids
established by the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity / Entities, as the
case may be. Rejection of all bids or re-bidding shall not be allowed solely
because the numberf of bids is less than three (3), and rejection of all bids or
rebidding shall. not take place without the Bank's prior written agreement.
(xiii) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder, that
is, the bidder who meets the- appropriate standards of capability and resources
and whose bid has been, dedrmined: (A) to be substantially responsive to the
bidding documents; an 
(B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The winning
bidder shall not be required; Las a. condition of award, to undertake
respqnsibilities for workbr to assume othe obligations not stipulated in the
biddingdocumRents oikotherise to modify:the bid as originally submitted. No
negotiitions shallbe peimitted except with the Bank!s no-objection.
-12-
(xiv) 
In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding document and
contract shall include provisions stating the Bank's policy to sanction firms or
individuals found to have engaged in fraud and corruption as set forth in the
Procurement Guidelines.
(xv) 
In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding document and
contract shall include provisions stating the Bank's policy with respect to
inspection and audit of accounts, records and other documents relating to the
submission of bids and contract performance.
(xvi) 
Government-owned enterprises in the Borrower's country may be permitted to
bid or submit a proposal of goods, works, or non-consulting services if they can
establish that they: (A) are legally and financially autonomous; (B) operate
under commercial law; and (C) are not a dependent agency of the agency
conducting the procurement.
(xvii) 
Matters such as subcontracting, joint venture relationships and assignment of
contract shall be handled in accordance with the bidding documents.
(xviii) The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be published in the
national or provincial press (as provided under paragraph (ii) above)tor official
gazette or a free and open-access website and shall identify: (A) the name of
each bidder who submitted a bid; (B) bid prices as read out at bid opening; (C)
the name of the bidder, and the evaluated price, of each bid that was evaluated;
(D) the names of bidders whose bids were eitherrejected as non-responsive or
not meeting qualification: criteria,,dr not evaluated, with: the reasons therefor;
and (E) the name of the winning bidder and the final total contract price, as well
as the duration and summary scope of the coitract. Such publication shall be
within- two (2) Weeks -of receiving: the Bank's no-objection to the award
recommendation for contracts subject to the Bank's prior review, and within
two (2) weeks of the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity's award
decision for contracts subject to the Bank's post review. The bidding documents
shall disclose the newspaper in which and / or the electronic means by which
the information on contract award will be published.
(xix) 
The Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity / Entities, as the case may be,
shall have in place an effective and independent protest mechanism for bidders
to protest. The bidding documents shall provide the professional title and
address of the official to whom such protests should be sent.
-13-
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based- Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan: (a) .Quality-based Selection; 
(b) Selection based 
on
Consultants' Qualificatioiis; (c) Single-Source Selection of consulting firms;
(d) Selection of Individual Consultants; and (e) Single-Source Selection of
individual consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set f6rth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and sich additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
'Disbursement 
Guidelines for Investment Project Financing" dated February
2017, as revised from time to.time.by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursualt to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below..
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
-14-
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) 
financed
(inclusive Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non-consulting
services, Output-based Payments, 
149,625,000 
100%
Incremental 
Operating 
Costs,
Training 
and. Workshops 
and
consultants' services for the Project
(2) Front-end Fee 
375,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of
the General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
150,000,000 -
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreemient, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not. to exceed thirty million Dollars
(USD 30,000,000) may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or
after Januaiy 1,2017 fori Eligible Expenditures.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2022.
Section V. 
Ot hr Undertikegs
Without prejudice to the provisions of Section IV above, the withdrawal of Loan
proceeds for Output-based Payment under Category (1) shall be made upon the
submission of evidence satisfactory to the Bank verifying the Outputs; and the
amount of eaich Output-based Payment shall be calculited as the product of the
Unit Price per the number of Outputs verified by the respectire County Project
Management Office; all in accordance with the Project Implementation.Plan.
-15-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall,be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in-paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
15 Sep 2025 
2.28%
15.Mar 2026 
2.31 %
15 Sep 2 02 6  
2.35% 
-
15 Mar 2027 
2.38 %
15 ep 2027 
242 %
15M 
2028 
2.46%
15 Sep2028 
2:49%
15 Mar 2029 
2.53%
15 Sep 2029 
2.57%
15 Mar 2030 
21t%
15Sep2030 
2.65.%
15 Mar 2031
15 Sp 2031 
2.73%
li e20I32 
2.81%
15Mrhi2033 
2.85 %
i~sp203 
2:89%
11M.r 2Q34 
2.94 %
15 SW'2034 
2.98%
15 Mar2035 
3.03%
15 Sep 2035 
3.07 %
15 Mar2036 
3.12%
15 Sep 2036  
3.16%
15 Mar 2037 
3.21%
15 Sep2037 
3.26%
15 Mai 2038 
3.31%
15 Se2038 
3.36%
15 Mar 2039 
3.41%
-16-
15 Sep 2039 
3.46%
15 Mar 2040 
3.51%
15Sep2040 
3.56%
15 Mar 2041 
3.62%
15 Sep 2041 
3.67%
15 Mar 2042 
3.54%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date; the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installmpnt Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining. Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawaL
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
-17-
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
dejqomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either. (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
-18-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Affected Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of the Project,
have experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused
by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter;
(ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of
livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to another location; or (b) the
involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected areas,
resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such persons; and an "Affected
Person" means any of such Affected Persons.
2. 
"Annual Work Plan" means each of the rolling plans for the Project to be prepared
or updated by the Provincial Project Management Office, submitted by the Project
Implementing Entity, and approved by the Bank, on an annual basis as provided
for in Section I.A.3 of the Schedule ta the Project Agreement.
3. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15,-2006 and-revised in January 2011.
4. 
"Bank's-Safeguards Policies" means the operational policies. and procedures for
financing.ofdevelopment projects by the Bank at the date of this Agreement and
relating to Environnental Assessment, Natural Habitats, Pest Management,
Indigenous Peoples (Ethnic Minorities), Physical Cultural Resources, Involuntary
Resettlement, Forests, Safety of Dams, Projects on International Waterways, and
Projects in Disputed Areas, as published under http://policies.worldbankorg/.
5. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
6. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
7. 
"County Project Management Office" means the office referred to in Section
LA. 1(e) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and any successor thereto.
8. 
"Environmental and Social Impact Assessment" means the environmental and
social management impapct assessment for the Project, acceptable-to the Bank
prepared by the Project Implementing Entity, dated September 2016 and disclosed
Qn infoshop on September9, 2016.
-19-
9. 
"Environmental Management Plans" or "EMPs" means, collectively, the Project
Implementing Entity's environmental management plans for the Project,
acceptable to the Bank, dated September 2016 and disclosed on infoshop on
September 9, 2016, which sets out the environmental piotection measures,
including measures for the protection of natural habitats, in respect of the Project,
as well as administrative, monitoring, supervision and training arrangements to
ensure the implementation of said plans, as said plan may be revised from time to
time with the prior written agreement of the B"hk, and such term includes all
schedules and annexes supplemental thereto, and any additional EMP as may be
required for Project activities.
10. 
"Expert Team" means the team referred to in Section I.A. 1(c) of the Schedule to
the Project Agreement, and any successor thereto.
11. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
12. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the reasonable costs incurred by the Project
Iniplenenting Entity, for purposes of Project managemerit and implementation
based on the aniual work plais and budgets approved in bd*agce by the Bank, on
account of office rental, supplies and consumables, utilities, bank charges,
communications, mass media<and printing servicsd, interpretation and translation
services, Vehicle rental, operation, mai-Ienace, ad insurance, building and
equipment maiitenance, local transportation, domestic travel, lodging, and
subsistence allowanes, and saratie of ctractial and temporary staff but
excInifdig salariesrIad anysala 
supementsof meifbers ofth Borrower's or
the Project Irnplemeting Entity's civ service.
13. 
"fOutput? meais competed ProJect activities involving public participation
approach in accordance with the terms of an agreement - approved-by the Bank -
.signed between County Project Management Office (representing a County) and
the relevant cdinunity(repiresented by an orgaitiony or the televant river head
office (representin the corresponding. entity within the instiutioial set up of
Jiangxi's river head system).
14. 
"Ouitpit-based Payment" means the reasonable costs of carrying oit an Output.
15. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-coisulting Services ufider IRD Loans and' IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Boroer" dated Jan 
y 2011 (rvised J 
:ly 
2014).
16. 
.'Procurement Plan" means the Borrower'sprocurrment plan for the Project, dated
November 30, 2016 and referred to, in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
-20-
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
17. 
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and the Project
Implementing Entity of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to
the Project Agreement.
18. 
"Project Counties" means collectively, the following counties and cities of Jiangxi
Province selected to participate in the Project: Duchang, Poyang, Yugan, Jishui,
Fengxin, Jing'an and Shangli, provided that the list of such Project Counties may
be amended from time to time with the prior written, agreement of the Bank, and
"Project Counties" means, individually, any of such Project Counties.
19. 
"Project Implementation Plan". means the Project Implementing Entity's plan
dated November 15, 2016, acceptable to the Bank, which incorporates the
Procurement Plan, the Safeguard Instruments, procurement manual, financial
management-manual, public participation manual, the Project's results framework
and performance 
indicators, technical 
modules, 
and other operational
arrangements for the Project, as the same may be revised from time to time with
the prior written agreement of the Bank.
20. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means the Borrower's Province of Jiangxi, or any
successor thereto.
21. 
"Project Leading Group" means the leading group referred to in Section IA.1(d)
of the,Schedule to the Project Agreement,. and any successor thereto.
22. 
"Provincial Project Management Office" means the office referred to in Section
IA. 1(b) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and any successor thereto.
23. 
"Provincial Project Steering Committee" means the committee referred to in
Section. IA.1(a) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and any successor
thereto.
24. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" or "RAP" means the resettlement action plan for the
Project prepared by the Project Implementing Entity, acceptable tpthe Bank, dated
September 2016 and displosed on infoshop on September 9, 2016, setting forth,
inter alia: (i) the principles and, procedures governing the acquisition of land
required for the Project and related facilities; (ii) actions and measures for the
payment of compensaton to Affected Persons and for their resettlement and
rehabilitation; (iii) the criteria and procedures for developing and implementing
actions and measures, satisfactory to the Bank, for mitigating the adverse social
impacts resulting from the implementation of activities in locations that are not
directly identified in the RAP; (iv) grievance redress mechanisms; and (v)
-21 -
reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan, as the
same may be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of the
Bank; and such term includes all attachments and annexes supplemental to said
plan, and any additional RAPs as may be required for Project activities.
25. 
"Safeguards Instruments" means, collectively, the Environmental Management
Plans, Environmental and Social Impact Assessment and the Resettlement Action
Plan, as well as any attachments, schedules and annexes supplemental to said
instruments.
26. 
"Training and Workshops" means the costs of training activities under the Project,
based on the Annual Work Plans approved in advance by the Bank, and attributable
to seminars, woikshop', and domestic and overseas training, along with travel and
subsistence allowances for training participants, services of trainers, rental of
training facilities, preparation and reproduction of training materials, and other
activities directly related to course preparation and. implementation.
27. 
"Unit Price" means.for each Output the unit price established from to time to time
by the Bank in consultation with the Project Implementing Entity, and set forth in
the Project Implementation Plan.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as-follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bahk a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower 
hall pay the Bank a commitment charge. on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date ofthe Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower fromn the Loan Account or cancelled. 
The
Comitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date."
-22-
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any
surcharge, any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early
termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any
premium payable upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
