OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8779-SC
Loan Agreement
(Third South West Indian Ocean Fisheries Governance and Shared Growth Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF SEYCHELLES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated cO 
a 
16 
,2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8779-SC
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated (XlbrW 15 2017, between REPUBLIC OF SEYCHELLES
("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
WHEREAS: (A) the International Development Association ("Association"), by extending
financial assistance (1) in 2015 to the Republic of Mozambique, the Union of Comoros, the United
Republic of Tanzania and the Indian Ocean Commission ("IOC") and (2) in 2017 to the Republic of.
Madagascar and the IOC, has provided support to activities of the preceding projects under the first
and second phases, respectively of the South West Indian Ocean Fisheries Governance and Shared
Growth Program ("Program") which aims to increase the economic, social, and environmental benefits
to South West Indian Ocean ("SWIO") countries from sustainable marine fisheries;
(B) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the project
("Project", as described in Schedule 1 hereto) under the third phase of the Program, has requested the
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(C) 
the Bank, acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility
("GEF"), intends to make available financial assistance to the Borrower under the GEF grant in an
amount not exceeding five million two hundred -ninety-two thousand one hundred ten Dollars
($5,292,110) ("GEF Grant"), to assist the Borrower in financing Parts A.1, A.2, B.1, B.2 and B.3 of
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the GEF Grant agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and the Bank, acting as Implementing Agency of the GEF ("GEF Grant Agreement"),
as further defined in the Appendix to this Agreement);
(D) 
the Bank, acting as an Implementing Agency of the GEF, further intends to make
available financial assistance to the Borrower under a GEF loan in an amount not exceeding five
million Dollars ($5,000,000) ("GEF Loan"), to assist the Borrower in financing Part C.6 of the Project
on the terms and conditions set forth in the GEF loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Bank, acting as Implementing Agency of the GEF ("GEF Loan Agreement", as
further defined in the Appendix to this Agreement); and
(E) 
the Borrower intends to issue a bond supported by the GEF Loan and a Bank
Guarantee, in an amount of approximately fifteen million Dollars ($15,000,000) ("SWIOFish 3 Blue
Bond"), as further defined in the Appendix to this Agreement, to assist the Borrower in financing part
of the cost of Parts A.3, B.4 and C.5 of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has also agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the
loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set
forth in this Agreement;
-2-
NOW THEREFORE the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an integral
part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have the
meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, the amount of five million Dollars ($5,000,000), as such amount may be
converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions
of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, however, that the
interest payable shall in no event be less than zero percent (0%) per annum; and
provided furthermore that, upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount
of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such
amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the
General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan
Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days,
then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section
3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the terms
of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of the Loan
Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis
-3-
applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a
Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate
based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread ; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or
the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted by
the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General Conditions,
and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General
Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the Program. To
this end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project, except Parts A.3, B.4 and C.5, through
MFTEP, shall cause SeyCCAT to carry out Parts A.3 and B.4, and shall cause DBS to carry
out Part C.5, all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as the
Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project is
carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
The SeyCCAT's Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of SeyCCAT to perform
any of its obligations under the SeyCCAT Subsidiary Agreement.
(b) 
The DBS's Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived
so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of DBS to perform any of its
obligations under the DBS Subsidiary Agreement.
(c) 
SeyCCAT or DBS shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations under its
respective Subsidiary Agreement.
(d) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this Agreement, an
extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
-4-
SeyCCAT or DBS will be able to perform any of its obligations under its respective
Subsidiary Agreement.
(e) 
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any action
for the dissolution or disestablishment of SeyCCAT or DBS or for the suspension of
SeyCCAT or DBS operations.
4.02. 
The Co-financing Deadline for the effectiveness of the GEF Loan Agreement and the
SWIOFish 3 Blue Bond is June 30, 2018.
4.03. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that, any event
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of sixty (60)
days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The GEF Grant Agreement has been executed and delivered and all conditions
precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
under it (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement) have been fulfilled.
(b) 
The Borrower has adopted the Project Operations Manual in accordance with the
provisions of Section I.E of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of
this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Borrower's minister responsible for finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance, Trade and Economic Planning
P.O. Box 313
Liberty House
Victoria Mah6
Republic of Seychelles
Facsimile: 
Telephone:
+248 432 5161 
+248 438 3120
-5-
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-6-
AGREED at Washington DC, United States, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF SEYCHEL 
S
By
Auth 
depresentative
Name: Dr. ouise Rene Peter Larose
Title: Minister of Finance, Trade and Economic Planning
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: Mark R. Lundell
Title: Country Director
-7-
.SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve management of marine areas and fisheries in
Targeted Zones and strengthen fisheries value chains in the Borrower's territory.
The Project constitutes the third phase of the Program, and consists of the following parts:
Part A. 
Expansion of the Borrower's Sustainable-use Marine Protected Areas
1 .
(a) Carrying out of studies to determine the management measures for the Sustainable-
use Marine Protected Areas; (b) preparation of management plans for Sustainable-use
Marine Protected Areas, including outlining of detailed governance mechanisms for
said Sustainable-use Marine Protected Areas; (c) preparation of regulations to enable
the creation and operationalization of said Sustainable-use Marine Protected Areas;
and (d) provision of technical assistance to implement the re-zoning of Sustainable-
use Marine Protected Areas.
2. 
(a) Provision of equipment and training to strengthen relevant government institutions
for enhanced and cost-effective management of the Sustainable-use Marine Protected
Areas; (b) the monitoring, control, and surveillance of the natural resources and
economic activities, including satellite-based imaging, patrols, operating costs,
equipment, and infrastructure; (c) carrying out of awareness campaigns and capacity-
building activities targeted at the main stakeholders, notably fishers, tourism
operators, and training of relevant government institutions; (d) support towards the
promotion of sustainable practices in the tourism and fisheries sectors; and (e)
carrying out of METT-based third-party evaluation of management effectiveness for
the Sustainable-use Marine Protected Areas.
3. 
Carrying out of a program of activities aimed at strengthening the Sustainable-use
Marine Protected Areas Network, through the provision of Blue Grants to Protected
Areas Network Beneficiaries to finance, inter alia, research activities on fisheries
management, development and implementation of management plans, education and
awareness programs, capacity building and training activities, monitoring, control and
surveillance, and promotion of sustainable practices in marine tourism.
-8-
Part B. 
Improved governance of the Borrower's Priority Fisheries
1. 
Carrying out of (a) stock .assessments, 
socioeconomic impact assessments,
preparation, and regular reviews of priority fisheries management plans; (b) capacity
building activities for the steering committees of the fisheries management plans and
the fishers associations; (c) support to the liaising function at the Seychelles Fishing
Authority to serve artisanal fishers; (d) monitoring, control, and surveillance
activities, including installation of vessel monitoring system equipment within the
Fisheries Monitoring Center and on coastal patrol boats; (e) support to the certification
of the semi-industrial longline fishery; and (f) preparation and implementation of a
fleet capacity management and licensing framework.
2. 
Strengthening the provision of relevant and reliable information on the status of the
marine environment and fisheries and their respective contribution to the Borrower's
economy through, inter alia, (a) finalization of the fisheries information system,
including fish size data capture; (b) provision of relevant training for government
statisticians; (c) development of a new fisheries information management system;
(d) provision of technical assistance and capacity building support to the Fisheries
Economic Intelligence Unit; and (e) design and development of a satellite economic
account for fisheries by the National Bureau of Statistics.
3. 
(a) Drafting of a fisheries sector policy note; (b) development of the fisheries sector
policy and strategy and its midterm review; (c) carrying out of an assessment of the
current government financial support to the fisheries sector, including sector
subsidies; (d) support towards the updating of the sector legal framework, including
laws, regulations and policies; and (e) provision of capacity building and ad hoc
technical assistance to the relevant public entities, including MAF and the Seychelles
Fishing Authority.
4. 
Carrying out of a program of activities aimed at improving governance of priority
fisheries, through the provision of Blue Grants to Priority Fisheries Beneficiaries to
finance, inter alia, research activities on fisheries management, development and
implementation of management plans, education and awareness programs, capacity
building and training activities, monitoring, control and surveillance, research and
development for innovation in post-harvesting and marketing.
Part C. 
Sustainable Development of the Borrower's Blue Economy
1 .
Carrying out of a program of activities to expand the seafood value chains and
promote other subsector synergies, notably, through, inter alia, (a) identification of
value chain development opportunities and provision of targeted capacity building to
fishers and operators; (b) support to the relevant government institutions and the
Fishers and Boat Owners Association to design, develop and operationalize the
Providence Fish Center; (c) installation of a small ice plant and bait storage on Praslin;
(d) promotion of the nascent labelling scheme for sustainable artisanal fisheries,
linking the fisheries and tourism value chains; and (e) enhanced inclusion of the sport
and recreational fisheries in the fisheries management effort, through education and
awareness programs and marketing to promote tagging and catch-and-release and the
development of the related electronic logbook application.
-9-
2. 
Creating of an enabling environment for sustainable, local, small-scale investments in
the aquaculture sector through, inter alia, (a) carrying out of environmental and social
impact assessments for local investments in inshore and land-based aquaculture,
(b) capacity-building of select relevant investors and the Seychelles Fishing
Authority, and (c) development of training courses and long-term human capital
development plans.
3. 
(a) Carrying out of a program of activities to strengthen the performance of fisheries
loan schemes and their alignment with the blue economy objectives; (b) elaboration
of standardized proposal assessment methodologies and related training for the Blue
Investment Fund; (c) carrying out of an assessment of the maximum carrying capacity
for investments in the fishing post-harvesting and service sectors; (d) provision of
technical assistance to facilitate a sustainable, economically sound port development
process; (e) carrying out of studies necessary to the development of different areas of
the blue economy, notably, feasibility of vessel refitting, decommissioning, and
buyback, policy and management for new and emerging fisheries; and (f) support
towards the development of policies and standards to improve recruitment and
retention of local crew and skippers.
4. 
Strengthening of the sanitary and phytosanitary monitoring capacity in the Borrower's
territory through the setting up of an enhanced monitoring program, and provision of
related training, equipment and technical assistance.
5. 
Provision of Blue Loans to Blue Investment Fund Beneficiaries to finance private and
public investments aimed at facilitating the implementation of the Mahd Plateau
fisheries management plan and the transition from open-access to better controlled
fisheries, including, inter alia, refitting of tourism vessels, refitting fishing vessels,
land-based production of high value niche products, fish processing and value
addition, sector services and logistics support.
6. 
Support to the Borrower's capacity to reduce the financing cost of the SWIOFish 3
Blue Bond issuance through, inter alia, (i) capitalization of the SWIOFish 3 Blue
Bond Account to assist in the financing, directly or indirectly, of a percentage of the
SWIOFish 3 Blue Bond-related coupons payments and/or purchase of a financial asset
to securitize repayment of a percentage of the SWIOFish 3 Blue Bond principle; and
(ii) technical assistance and Operating Costs associated with the SWIOFish 3 Blue
Bond issuance.
Part D. 
Project coordination, management and monitoring, preparation of financial audits,
and periodic evaluations through, inter alia, advisory services, purchase of equipment,
provision of Training, Operating Costs and monitoring and evaluation activities.
-10-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
Project Steering Committee
(a) 
The Borrower shall maintain, at all times during the implementation of the Project, a
Project steering committee with a mandate, composition and resources satisfactory to
the Bank ("Project Steering Committee").
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section I.A.1 of this
Schedule 2, the Project Steering Committee shall be chaired by a representative of
MFTEP, the assistant to the Project shall serve as the secretary and it shall further be
comprised of, inter alia, representatives of the Borrower's ministries responsible for
agriculture and fisheries, environment, energy and climate change, and foreign affairs;
the Seychelles Fishing Authority; the Seychelles National Parks Authority; and the
Seychelles Port Authority.
(c) 
The Project Steering Committee shall meet at least semi-annually and shall be
responsible for Project oversight, including inter alia: (i) reviewing the proposed
Annual Work Plans and Budgets for the Project, (ii) providing overall Project
oversight and strategic guidance, (iii) facilitating adequate coordination with relevant
stakeholders and alignment with sector strategies, and (iv) identifying necessary
Project adjustments based on monitoring and evaluation reports.
2. 
Project Implementation Unit
(a) 
For purposes of the Project, except Parts A.3, B.4, C.5 and C.6, the Borrower shall
maintain at all times until the completion of the Project, the Project Implementation
Unit within the MFTEP with terms of reference and resources satisfactory to the Bank
("Project Implementation Unit").
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section I.A.2 of this
Schedule 2, the Project Inplementation Unit shall at all times:
(i) 
be comprised of qualified and experienced personnel in adequate numbers,
and to this end, inter alia, no later than six (6) months after the Effective Date,
recruit an environmental and social specialist and a monitoring and
evaluations specialist, all with qualifications and terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank; and
(ii) 
be responsible for the day-to-day Project coordination and implementation,
including: (A) preparing each proposed Annual Work Plan and Budget for the
Project, updating the Procurement Plan and consolidating the Project reports
for the Project Steering Committee; (B) carrying out all Project procurement
-11-
activities including developing 
and maintaining a comprehensive
procurement filing system for the Project, except Parts A.3, B.4 and C.5 of
the Project; and (C) monitoring and evaluating the Project.
B. 
SeyCCAT Subsidiary Agreement
In order to achieve the objectives of Parts A.3 and B.4 of the Project, no later than one (1)
month after the conclusion of the Bank Guarantee, the Borrower shall make part of the
proceeds of the SWIOFish 3 Blue Bond available to SeyCCAT under a subsidiary agreement
between the Borrower and SeyCCAT, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, as
further detailed in the Bank Guarantee ("SeyCCAT Subsidiary Agreement").
C. 
DBS Subsidiary Agreement
In order to achieve the objectives of Part C.5 of the Project, no later than one (1) month after
the conclusion of the Bank Guarantee, the Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the
SWIOFish 3 Blue Bond available to DBS under a subsidiary agreement between the Borrower
and DBS, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, as further detailed in the Bank
Guarantee ("DBS Subsidiary Agreement").
D. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
E. 
Project Operations Manual
1. 
The Borrower shall prepare or cause to be prepared, in accordance with terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank, a Project operations manual, containing (a) detailed arrangements and
procedures for: (i) institutional coordination and day-to-day execution of the Project;
(ii) Project budgeting, 
disbursement 
and financial 
management; 
(iii) procurement;
(iv) monitoring, evaluation, reporting and communication; (v) environmental and safeguard
management; (b) the SWIOFish 3 Blue Bond Account Manual and (c) such other
administrative, financial, technical and organizational arrangements and procedures as shall
be required for the Project.
2. 
The Borrower shall afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to review and approve such
manual, and shall thereafter adopt such manual as shall have been approved by the Bank
("Project Operations Manual").
3. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project Operations Manual
and shall, not amend, abrogate, waive, or permit to be amended, abrogated, or waived, the
aforementioned, or any provision thereof, without the prior written consent of the Bank.
4. 
In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the Project Operations Manual and those
of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
-12-
F. 
Annual Work Plans and Budgets
1. 
Not later than [December 31] in each calendar year (or one (1) month after the Effective Date
for the first year of Project implementation), the Borrower shall prepare or cause to be prepared
a draft annual work plan and budget for the Project (including Training and Operating Costs)
for the subsequent calendar year of Project implementation, of such scope and detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested.
2. 
The Borrower shall afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to review such draft annual work
plan and budget, and thereafter shall carry out (or cause to be carried out) such annual work
plan and budget during such subsequent calendar year as shall have been approved by the
Bank ("Annual Work Plan and Budget"). Only those activities that are included in an Annual
Work Plan and Budget shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.
3. 
Any Training proposed to be included in an Annual Work Plan and Budget, shall include, inter
alia: (a) particulars of the Training envisaged; (b) the criteria for selection of the personnel to
be trained, and such personnel if known; (c) the selection method of the institution or
individuals conducting such Training; (d) the institution conducting such Training if
identified; (e) the purpose and justification for such Training; (f) the location and duration of
the proposed training; and (g) the estimate of the cost of such Training.
4. 
Annual Work Plans and Budgets may be revised as needed during Project implementation
subject to the Bank's prior written approval.
G. 
Safeguards
1 .
The Borrower shall implement (or cause SeyCCAT and DBS to implement) the Project in
accordance with the relevant Safeguards Instruments, and shall, to that end:
(a) 
if any activity under the Project requires the adoption of a Supplemental Safeguard
Instrument:
(i) 
prepare or cause to be prepared: (A) such Supplemental Safeguard Instrument
in accordance with the applicable ESMF or PF; (B) furnish such
Supplemental Safeguard Instrument to the Bank for review and approval; and
(C) thereafter adopt such Supplemental Safeguard Instrument prior to
implementation of the activity; and
(ii) 
thereafter take such measures as shall be necessary or appropriate to ensure
full compliance with the requirements of such Supplemental Safeguard
Instrument; and
(b) 
if any activity under the Project would involve Affected Persons, ensure that no
displacement (including restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected
areas) shall occur before compensation measures under the applicable LRP, including,
in the case of displacement, full payment to Affected Persons of compensation and of
other assistance required for relocation, have been taken.
2. 
Without limitation upon its other reporting obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower
shall, for each applicable Safeguard Instrument, regularly collect, compile and furnish, cause
-13-
to be regularly collected, compiled and furnished to the Bank reports in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, on the status of compliance with each applicable Safeguard
Instrument, as part of the Project Reports, giving details of:
(a) 
measures taken in furtherance of such Safeguard Instrument;
(b) 
conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the smooth
implementation of such Safeguard Instrument; and
(c) 
remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such conditions.
3. 
In the event that any provision of the Safeguards Instruments shall conflict with any provision
under this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that:
(a) 
all terms of reference for any technical assistance and studies to be carried out under
the Project are consistent with the Bank's environmental and social safeguard policies;
and
(b) 
in any Project activity that may support the drafting of regulatory instruments for the
purpose of the Project, due attention will be given to said policies.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall (and shall cause SeyCCAT or DBS, as the case may be, to) monitor and
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable
to the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by
such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1 .
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare and
furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter,
interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover
the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such
period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.
-14-
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-consulting services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured
in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth
or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and with the provisions of this
Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to the
corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the Procurement Guidelines, or
Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in the
Procurement Plan:
Procurement Method
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding
(b) 
Shopping
(c) 
Direct Contracting
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality- and
Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following methods, other
than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of consultants' services
for those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan:
Procurement Method
(a) 
Quality-based Selection
(b) 
Selection under a Fixed Budget
-15-
Procurement Method
(c) 
Least-Cost Selection
(d) 
Selection Based on the Consultants' Qualifications
(e) 
Selection of Individual Consultants
(f 
Single-source Selection of consulting firms
(g) 
Single-source procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's Prior
Review..All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
-16-
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of
Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines
for Projects" dated February 2017, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures
as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each
Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non-consulting 
3,776,500 
100%
services, 
consultants' 
services,
Training and Operating Costs for
Parts C.1, C.2, C.3, C.4 and D of
the Project
(2) Refund of the Preparation 
1,211,000 
Amount 
payable 
pursuant 
to
Advance 
Section 2.07(a) of the General
Conditions
(3) Front-end Fee 
12,500 
Amount 
payable 
pursuant 
to
Section 2.03 of this Agreement in
accordance with Section 2.07(b) of
the General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
5,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2023.
-17-
SCHEDULE3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of
the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date ("Installment
Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment
Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each February 15 and August 15, beginning
February 15, 2028 through August 15, 2037. 
5%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment
Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as of
such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on each
Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the table
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment
Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original Installment
Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, such amounts
repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph
4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on
the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be
repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal
Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any time
the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on or after
the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no
longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
-18-
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal Payment
Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying
such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either:
(i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable
by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the
Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate
component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-19-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Affected Person" means a person who as a result of: (i) the involuntary taking of land under
the Project is affected in any of the following ways: (A) relocation or loss of shelter; (B) loss
of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or
not the affected person must move to another location; or (ii) the involuntary restriction of
access to legally designated parks and protected areas suffers adverse impacts on his or her
livelihood; and "Affected Person" means any of the Affected Persons.
2. 
"Annual Work Plan and Budget" means the annual work plan and budget as prepared by the
PIU and approved by the Bank in accordance with the provisions of Section I.F of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
3. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and
Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated October
15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
4. 
"Bank Guarantee" means the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
guarantee backstopping a share of the repayment of the SWIOFish 3 Blue Bond.
5. 
"Blue Grants" means grants provided by SeyCCAT to Protected Areas Network Beneficiaries
and Priority Fisheries Beneficiaries, under Parts A.3 and B.4 of the Project.
6. 
"Blue Loans" means loans provided by DBS to Blue Investment Fund Beneficiaries, under
Part C.5 of the Project.
7. 
"Blue Investment Fund" means a fund to be established by DBS to operate the Blue Loans as
further detailed in the DBS Subsidiary Agreement.
8. 
"Blue Investment Fund Beneficiaries" means individuals and/or firms to which a Blue Loan
is made pursuant to Part C.5 of the Project.
9. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
10. 
"Co-financiers" means the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, acting as
an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) and the Borrower as the
issuer of the SWIOFish 3 Blue Bond, and "Co-financier" means each and any of the Co-
financiers.
11. 
"Co-financing" means, for purposes of paragraph 16 of the Appendix to the General
Conditions, a GEF Grant in an amount of approximately US$5.92 110 million and GEF Loan
in an amount of approximately US$5 million and the Borrower's SWIOFish 3 Blue Bond in
an amount of approximately US$15 million to assist in financing the Project.
12. 
"Co-financing Agreement" means the GEF Grant Agreement or the GEF Loan Agreement,
and "Co-financing Agreements" means both agreements.
-20-
13. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January
2011 (revised July 2014).
14. 
"DBS" means Development Bank of Seychelles, a development finance institution with a
specific mandate to assist in the economic development of the Borrower pursuant to the DBS
Legislation.
15. 
"DBS' Legislation" means the Borrower's Decree [Chapter 63], dated February 1, 1978,
establishing DBS.
16. 
"DBS Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.C. of Schedule 2
to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the
SWIOFish 3 Blue Bond available to DBS.
17. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the framework
disclosed in the Borrower's territory on May 11, 2017 and on the Bank's website on May 12,
2017, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, outlining environmental and social
implementation procedures, mitigation measures and monitoring procedures for the Project,
as said framework may be amended from time to time with the Bank's prior written approval,
and such term includes any schedules or annexes to the framework.
18. 
"Environmental and Social Management Plan" or "ESMP" means a plan to be prepared by the
Borrower for the purposes of the Project proposing appropriate mitigation, monitoring and
institutional measures designed to mitigate potential adverse environmental impacts, offset
them, reduce them to acceptable levels or enhance positive impacts, as the same may be
amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any
schedules or annexes to the plan.
19. 
"Fisheries Economic Intelligence Unit" means the specialized unit to be established within the
Borrower's territory to provide monitoring, analysis and reporting of economic information
for the fisheries sector.
20. 
"Fisheries Monitoring Center" means the sub-unit of the monitoring, control and surveillance
section of the Seychelles Fishing Authority that is responsible for ensuring fishing vessel
compliance with reporting and vessel monitoring system requirements, as well as validation
of statistical reporting documents for regional fisheries bodies and catch certificates.
21. 
"Fishers and Boat Owners Association" means a non-governmental organization with a
membership comprising boat owners and fishermen operating in the domestic fisheries sector
of Seychelles, registered under the Borrower's Registration of Associations Act (CAP201),
Section 4, on the 22nd March 2017 (number A431416).
22. 
"GEF Grant" means the proceeds provided by the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development, acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF),
to the Borrower, under the GEF Grant Agreement.
23. 
"GEF Grant Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, acting as an Implementing
-21-
Agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) providing for the GEF Grant, of the same
date as this Agreement, as such agreement may be amended from time to time.
24. 
"GEF Loan" means the proceeds provided by the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development, acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF),
to the Borrower, under the GEF Loan Agreement.
25. 
"GEF Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, acting as an Implementing
Agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) providing for the GEF Loan, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time.
26. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
27. 
"IOC" means the Indian Ocean Commission.
28. 
"Livelihood Restoration Plan" or "LRP" means a plan to be prepared by the Borrower for the
purposes of the Project, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth the
specific modalities for compensation of Affected Persons under the Project, as said document
may be amended and/or supplemented from time to time with the prior written concurrence of
the Bank and subject to the initial consultation and disclosure requirements carried out on the
LRP, and such term includes any schedules or annexes to the plan.
29. 
"Mah6 Plateau" means the Borrower's plateau that hosts the granitic islands.
30. 
"MAF" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for agriculture and fisheries, and any
successor thereto.
31. 
"METT" means management effectiveness tracking tool.
32. 
"MFTEP" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for finance, and any successor thereto.
33. 
"National Bureau of Statistics" means the institution established by the Borrower's National
Bureau of Statistics Act 2010, responsible for the production and dissemination of statistics in
the Borrower's territory.
34. 
"Operating Costs" means incremental recurrent expenditures incurred on account of Project
implementation, including: local contractual support staff salaries; travel expenditures and
other travel-related allowances; equipment rental and maintenance; materials and supplies;
and utilities, media information campaigns and communications' expenses, but excluding the
salaries of officials and public servants of the Borrower's civil service.
35. 
"Preparation Advance" means the advance referred to in Section 2.07 (a) of the General
Conditions, granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on
behalf of the Bank on April 11, 2016 and on behalf of the Borrower on April 28, 2016.
36. 
"Priority Fisheries Beneficiaries" means individuals and/or firms to which a Blue Grant is
provided pursuant to Part B.4 of the Project.
-22-
37. 
"Process Framework" or "PF" means the Borrower framework disclosed in the Borrower's
territory on May 11, 2017 and on the Bank's website on May 12, 2017, outlining the
participatory process to be followed for activities implemented under the Project that lead to
restrictions of access to natural resources in Targeted Zones, including legally designated
parks and protected areas, including the criteria for eligibility of project affected persons for
receiving any mitigating or compensating measures under the Project, as said framework may
be amended and/or supplemented from time to time with the prior written consent of the Bank,
and such term includes any schedules to such framework.
38. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-
consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
39. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated June 20,
2017 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of
the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with
the provisions of said paragraphs.
40. 
"Program" or "South West Indian Ocean Fisheries Governance and Shared Growth Program
"means the program designed to increase the economic, social, and environmental benefits to
SWIO countries from sustainable marine fisheries.
41. 
"Project Implementation Unit" or "PIU" means the unit established within MFTEP pursuant
to the Borrower's letter dated June 1, 2017, responsible for the day to day implementation of
the Project.
42. 
"Project Operations Manual" means the manual to be prepared and adopted by the Borrower
in accordance with the provisions of Section I.E of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same
may be revised from time to time with the prior written consent of the Bank.
43. 
"Project Steering Committee" means the steering committee established by the Borrower
pursuant to the Borrower's letter dated June 1, 2017.
44. 
"Protected Areas Network Beneficiaries" means individuals and/or firms to which a Blue
Grant is provided pursuant to Part A.3 of the Project.
45. 
"Providence Fish Center" means a fish auction and marketing facility proposed to be
established and located within the Providence port in Mah6, Seychelles.
46. 
"Safeguards Instruments" means, collectively, the ESMF, PF and any Supplemental
Safeguards Instrument.
47. 
"SeyCCAT" means the Seychelles Conservation and Climate Adaptation Trust, established
pursuant to SeyCCAT's Legislation.
48. 
"SeyCCAT's Legislation" means the Borrower's Conservation and Climate Adaptation Trust
of Seychelles Act, dated November 19, 2015.
-23-
49. 
"SeyCCAT Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.B. of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make part of the proceeds
of the SWIOFish 3 Blue Bond available to SeyCCAT.
50. 
"Seychelles Fishing Authority" means the independent entity established pursuant to the
Borrower's Fishing Authority Establishment Act 1984, which has the oversight responsibility
over the fisheries sector pursuant to the Borrower's Fisheries Act 2014.
51. 
"Supplemental Safeguards Instrument" means collectively, any ESMP, LRP or any other
instrument required under the terms of the Safeguards Framework Documents, to be prepared
by the Borrower and approved by the Bank for purposes of the Project, proposing appropriate
mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures designed to mitigate potential adverse
environmental and social impacts, offset them, reduce them to acceptable levels or enhance
positive impacts, as the said plan may be amended and/or supplemented from time to time
with the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
52. 
"Sustainable-use Marine Protected Areas" means designated areas of the marine environment
that contain modified or unmodified natural systems, managed to ensure long term protection
and maintenance of ecosystems and services, while providing at the same time a sustainable
flow of natural products and services compatible with nature conservation, pursuant to the
Borrower's Protected Areas Policy 2013.
53. 
"Sustainable-use Marine Protected Areas Network" means the network of Sustainable-use
Marine Protected Areas.
54. 
"SWIO" means South West Indian Ocean.
55. 
"SWIOFish 3 Blue Bond" means the bond issued by the Borrower to finance part of the cost
of Parts A.3, B.4 and C.5 of the Project.
56. 
"SWIOFish 3 Blue Bond Account" means the special account to be established in accordance
with Section I.A.3. of the GEF Loan Agreement, to receive the proceeds of the GEF Loan.
57. 
"SWIOFish 3 Blue Bond Account Manual" means the operations manual for the SWIOFish 3
Blue Bond Account, to be prepared as part of the Project Operations Manual, in accordance
with Section I.E. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
58. 
"Targeted Zones" means any geographical areas where Project activities will be implemented,
including Sustainable-use Marine Protected Areas and the Mah& Plateau.
59. 
"Training" means the training of persons under the Project based on the Annual Work Program
approved by the Bank, including through seminars, workshops, knowledge sharing activities
and study tours, and covers the following costs associated with such activity: travel and
subsistence costs for training participants, costs associated with securing the services of
trainers, rental of training facilities, preparation and reproduction of training materials, and
other costs directly related to training preparation and implementation.
-24-
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers are
modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan Agreement
to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan
Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on
each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs are
modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition of
"Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.0 1(b)."
