OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8739 -VN
Loan Agreement
(Vietnam Energy Efficiency for Industrial Enterprises Project)
between
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
A\L 
4t 
,2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8739 -VN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
$Uq.VA 
(g 
, 2017, entered into between
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank")
WHEREAS:
(A) 
the Borrower has requested the Bank/Association to provide assistance
towards the financing of the project described in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement ("Project"); and
(B) 
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the
Association ("Financing Agreement"), the Association has agreed to
provide such assistance in the amounts equivalent to one million three
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR1,300,000) (variously,
"Credit" and "Financing").
NOW the Borrower and Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million Dollars
($100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-2-
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided,
however, that the interest payable shall in no event be less than zero percent (0%)
per annum; and provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the
Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the
relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when
due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest
payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e)
of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any. portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
-3-
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through its Ministry of Industry and
Trade and shall cause the Project to be carried out by each of the Project Financial
Institutions in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and each of their respective Project Agreements.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure
that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following, namely any of the
Project Financial Institutions' Legislation has been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed, or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability
of the Project Financial Institutions to perform any of their obligations under the
Project Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of thirty (30) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to
the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed between the Borrower,
through its Ministry of Finance, and each of BIDV and VIETCOMBANK;
(b) 
the Financing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all
conditions precedent to its effectiveness (other than the effectiveness of this
Agreement) have been fulfilled.
-4-
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter is that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement executed
between the Borrower, through its Ministry of Finance, and each of BIDV and
VIETCOMBANK has been duly authorized by the Borrower and is legally binding
upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Governor or a Deputy Governor of State
Bank of Vietnam.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
State Bank of Vietnam
49 L Thai To
Hanoi
Vietnam
Facsimile:
84-4-3825-0612
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INDEVAS 
248423 (MCI) 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.
-5-
AGREED at Hanoi, Vietnam, as of the day and year first above written.
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
By
Authorized Representative
Name:
Title: _ft_ 
(w 
_
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
OUAWAgdL Do.m-
Title: 
It'Af"
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve energy efficiency in Vietnam's industrial
sector.
The Project would contribute to achieving the Borrower's energy efficiency and
greenhouse gas reduction objectives. The Project consists of the following parts:
1. 
Energy Efficiency Investment Lending
Carrying out of an energy efficiency investment lending program through the
provision of a credit line for the Project Financial Institutions providing Energy
Efficiency Sub-loans to Industrial Enterprises or Energy Services Companies.
2. 
Project Implementation Support
Provision of technical assistance and capacity building support to the Ministry of
Industry and Trade on Project monitoring and supervision, including audits of
Project activities and safeguards implementation.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The 
Borrower 
shall be 
responsible 
for 
overall Project 
coordination,
implementation, and monitoring and evaluation through the Ministry of Industry
and Trade.
2. 
The Borrower, through the Ministry of Industry and Trade, shall maintain the
Project Management Board throughout Project implementation and cause said
Project Management Board to oversee the day-to-day operations of the Project,
including: the provision of support to, and supervision of Project activities;
maintaining accounting and financial systems, and competent staff, including a
Project coordinator, technical, environmental, social, financial and procurement
personnel in adequate numbers, in each case with relevant qualifications and
expertise; all in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
B. 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement
1 .
To facilitate the implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall make the
proceeds of the Loan available to each of the PFIs under a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement executed between the Borrower, represented by its Ministry of
Finance, and the PFIs, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, which
shall include the obligations of the PFIs to:
(a) 
with respect to the proceeds of the Loan made available to each PFI:
(i) pay the Borrower a front-end fee in an amount equal to the Front-end
Fee specified in Section 2.03 of this Agreement; (ii) repay the proceeds of
the Loan over a period of ten (10) years, inclusive of a grace period of five
(5) years in Dollars or any other Currency as the Loan may be converted
from time to time through a Currency Conversion (such principal amount
determined on the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan
Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn; and
(iii) pay the Borrower: (A) the Commitment Charge at the rate payable by
the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.04 of this Agreement; (B) interest on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time pursuant to Section 2.05 of this Agreement, subject to any request
that the Borrower may make pursuant to Section 2.08 of this Agreement;
and (C) and any premium for Interest Rate Caps or Interest Rate Collars.
-8-
(b) 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of Loan proceeds
other than the Borrower;
(c) 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
the Operations Manual, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in
writing, not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be assigned,
amended, abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned, or any provision
thereof;
(d) 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
the Safeguard Instruments, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree
in writing, not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be assigned,
amended, abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned, or any provision
thereof;
(e) 
ensure that: (a) an acceptable financial management system is maintained
and financial statements are prepared in accordance with consistently
applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner
adequate to reflect the operations and financial condition of the PFI,
including the operations, resources, and expenditures related to the
Project; and (b) such statements are audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing
standards acceptable to the Bank, and such audited financial statements
are furnished to the Bank in accordance with the provisions of the relevant
Project Agreement and made publicly available in a timely fashion and in
a manner acceptable to the Bank; and
(f) 
ensure that procurement of the goods, works, and services required for the
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Section III of
this Schedule 2, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the
Procurement Plan.
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Subsidiary Loan. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any of its provisions.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
-9-
D. 
Operations Manual
1. 
The Borrower, through the Ministry of Industry and Trade, shall:
(a) 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the Operations
Manual; and
(b) 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing, not assign, amend,
abrogate, or waive, or permit to be assigned, amended, abrogated, or
waived, the aforementioned, or any provision thereof.
2. 
In the event of a conflict between the provisions of the Operations Manual and
those of this Agreement, the latter shall govern.
E. 
Safeguards
1. The Borrower, through the Ministry of Industry and Trade, shall, and shall cause the
PFIs to, ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the
Safeguards Instruments, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be assigned,
amended, abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned, or any provision thereof.
2. 
In the event of a conflict between the provisions of any of the Safeguards Instruments
and those of this Agreement, the latter shall govern.
3. The Borrower, through the Ministry of Industry and Trade, shall, and shall cause the
PFIs to ensure, that all studies and technical assistance to be supported under the
Project are carried out under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and that such
terms of reference are consistent with, and pay due attention to, the Bank's Safeguards
Policies.
4. Without limitation upon its other reporting obligations under Section II.A.1 of this
Schedule, the Borrower, through the Ministry of Industry and Trade, shall, and shall
cause the PFIs to, take all measures necessary to regularly collect, compile, and submit
to the Bank, as part of the Project Reports, and promptly in a separate report whenever
the circumstances warrant, information on the status of compliance with the Safeguards
Instruments, providing details of:
(a) 
measures taken in furtherance of said Instruments;
(b) 
conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the smooth
implementation of said Instruments; and
(c) 
remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such
conditions.
- 10 -
Section II. 
Project Monitorin2, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower, through the Ministry of Industry and Trade, shall, and shall cause the PFIs
to, monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in
accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis
of the indicators set forth in the Operations Manual. Each Project Report shall cover the
period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Midterm Review
The Borrower, through the Ministry of Industry and Trade, shall:
(a) 
carry out jointly with the Bank and the PFIs, not later than thirty-six
(36) months, or such other period as may be agreed with the Bank, after
the Effective Date, a midterm review to assess the status of Project
implementation, 
as measured 
against the performance indicators
acceptable to the Bank. Such review shall include an assessment of the
following: (i) overall progress in implementation; (ii) results of monitoring
and evaluation activities; (iii) progress on procurement and disbursement;
(iv) 
progress 
on 
implementation 
of safeguards 
measures; 
and
(v) implementation arrangements.
(b) 
cause the PFIs to prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank, at
least one (1) month before such review, a report, in scope and detail
satisfactory to the Bank and integrating the results of the monitoring and
evaluation activities performed pursuant to Part A.1 of this Section and
Section II.A of the Schedule to the relevant Project Agreement, on the
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period
preceding the date of such report and setting out the measures
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such
date; and
(c) 
review jointly with the Bank and the PFIs the report referred to in the
preceding paragraph and thereafter cause the PFIs to take all measures
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and
recommendations of such report and the Bank's views on the matter.
- 11 -
C. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower,
through the Ministry of Industry and Trade, shall, and shall cause the PFIs to,
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of
each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering
the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through the Ministry of Industry and Trade, shall, and shall cause
each PFI to have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions
of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions. 
Each audit of the Financial
Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. The
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
Section HI. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works, and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works, and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts,
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works, and Non-consulting
Services
- 12 -
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. 
Except as otherwise provided 
in
paragraph 2 below, goods, works, and non-consulting services shall be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works, and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works, and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive
Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set forth in the Annex to this
Schedule; (b) Shopping; (c) Direct Contracting; and (d) Commercial Practice for
procurement activities carried out under the Energy Efficiency Sub-loans under
Part 1 of the Project.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality-and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan: 
(a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; 
(c) Least Cost Selection; 
(d) Selection based on Consultants'
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Procedures set
forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of
Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan and Credit
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan and Credit in accordance
with the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "Disbursement Guidelines for Investment Project Financing" dated
February 2017, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable
- 13 -
to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures
as set forth in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Credit ("Category"), the allocation
of the amounts of the Loan and the Credit to each Category, and the percentage of
expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Category 
Amount of the 
Amount of the 
Percentage of
Loan 
Credit Allocated 
Expenditures to
Allocated 
(expressed in SDR 
be financed
(expressed in 
equivalent) 
(inclusive of
USD) 
Taxes)
(1) Energy 
99,250,000 
100% of amounts
Efficiency Sub- 
disbursed
loans under Part 1 of
the Project
(2) Goods, works, 
1,300,000 
100%
non-consulting
services,
consultants'
services, and
Incremental
Operating Costs
under Part 2 of the
Project
(3) Commitment 
500,000 
Amount payable
Charge on the Loan 
pursuant to Section
accrued on or before 
2.04 of this
the last Payment 
Agreement, in
Date immediately 
accordance with
preceding the 
Section 2.07 (c) of
Closing Date. 
the General
Conditions
(4) Front-end Fee 
250,000 
Amount payable
pursuant to Section
2.03 of this
Agreement in
accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of
the General
Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
100,000,000 
1,300,000
- 14 -
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed USD20,000,000 equivalent
under the Loan may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after
July 15, 2016, for Eligible Expenditures.
2. 
The Closing Date is July 31, 2022.
- 15 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
National Competitive Bidding: Additional Procedures
The procedures to be followed for the procurement of goods, non-consulting services, and
works under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding shall be those
set forth in: (a) Article 20 on Open Bidding of the Borrower's Law on Procurement
No. 43/2013/QH13 dated November 26, 2013 and related provisions necessary to effect
the same; and (b) the Borrower's Decree No. 63/2014/ND-CP Guiding Implementation of
the Law on the Procurement dated June 26, 2014 (collectively, "National Procurement
Laws"), 
subject to the provisions of Section I and Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the
"Guidelines for Procurement of Goods, Works, and Non-Consulting Services under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits & Grants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011, revised
July 2014 ("the Procurement Guidelines") and the following provisions:
Conflict of Interest
1. 
A bidder shall not have a conflict of interest. Any bidder found to have a conflict
of interest shall be ineligible for award of a contract. The provisions on conflict of interest
as stated under Section I of the Procurement Guidelines shall apply.
Eligibility
2. 
The eligibility of bidders shall be as defined under Section I of the Procurement
Guidelines; accordingly, no bidder or potential bidder shall be declared ineligible for
contracts financed by the Bank/Bank for reasons other than those provided in Section I of
the Guidelines. Foreign bidders shall be eligible to participate in bidding under the same
conditions as national bidders. In particular, no domestic preference over foreign bidders
shall be granted to national bidders in bid evaluation, nor shall foreign bidders be asked or
required to form joint ventures with or be subcontractors to national bidders in order to
submit a bid.
3. 
Government-owned enterprises or institutions of the Borrower's country are
eligible to bid in the Borrower's/Borrower's country only if they can establish that they:
(i) are legally and financially autonomous, (ii) operate under commercial law, and (iii) are
not dependent agencies of the Borrower or Sub-Borrower.
Time for Bid Preparation
4. 
The time allowed for the preparation and submission of bids for large and/or
complex packages shall not be less than thirty (30) days from the date of the invitation to
bid or the date of availability of the bidding documents, whichever is later.
Standard Bidding Documents
- 16 -
5. 
The standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
Bid Opening and Bid Evaluation
6. 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for submission of
bids, regardless of the number of bids received.
7. 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria that shall be
clearly specified in the bidding documents and quantified in monetary terms for evaluation
criteria other than price; merit points shall not be used in bid evaluation. No bid shall be
eliminated from detailed evaluation on the basis of minor, non-substantive deviations. The
evaluation of bidder's qualifications shall be conducted separately subsequent to the
technical and commercial evaluation of the bid.
8. 
A contract shall be awarded, within the period of the validity of bids, to the bidder
who meets the appropriate standards of capability and resources and whose bid has been
determined (i) to be substantially responsive to the bidding documents and (ii) to offer the
lowest evaluated cost. A bidder shall neither be required nor permitted, as a condition for
award, to undertake obligations not specified in the bidding documents or otherwise to
modify the bid as originally submitted.
9. 
No bid shall be rejected on the basis of a comparison with the employer's estimate
and budget ceiling without the Bank's/Bank's prior written agreement.
Rejection of All Bids and Re-bidding
10. 
Rejection of all bids is justified when there is lack of effective competition, or all
bids are not substantially responsive, or no bidder meets the specified qualification criteria,
or the bid price of the lowest evaluated winning bid is substantially higher than the
Borrower's updated estimated cost or available budget. All bids shall not be rejected or
new bids solicited without the Bank's prior written agreement.
Complaints by Bidders and Handling of Complaints
11. 
The Borrower shall implement an effective and independent protest mechanism,
acceptable to the Bank/Bank, allowing bidders to complaint and have their complaints
handled in a timely manner.
- 17-
SCHEDULE 3
Repayment Schedule
1. 
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall repay
each Disbursed Amount in semiannual installments payable on each March 15 and
September 15, the first installment to be payable on the eleventh (11th) Payment Date
following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount and the last installment to
be payable on the twentieth (20th) Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for
the Disbursed Amount. The following table sets forth the percentage of the Disbursed
Amount payable on each Principal Payment Date.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
First 
9.34%
Second 
9.48%
Third 
9.62%
Fourth 
9.77%
Fifth 
9.91%
Sixth 
10.06%
Seventh 
10.21%
Eighth 
10.37%
Ninth 
10.52%
Tenth 
10.72%
2. 
If any one or more installments of principal of the Disbursed Amount would,
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Schedule, be payable after March 15,
2032, the Borrower shall also pay on such date the aggregate amount of all such
installments.
3. 
The Bank shall notify the Loan Parties of the amortization schedule for each
Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 through 3 of this Schedule, in the
event of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed Amount to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable
on any Principal Payment Date iccurring during the Conversion Period, shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination
immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the
amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency
Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen
Rate.
- 18-
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency.
- 19 -
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Additional 
Environmental 
Impact Assessments" means, collectively, the
Industrial Enterprises' (as hereinafter defined) plans, to be prepared pursuant to
the Environmental and Social Management Framework (as hereinafter defined)
and agreed with the Bank, setting forth the environmental impact assessment in
respect of activities to be implemented under Energy Efficiency Sub-projects (as
hereinafter defined), as the same may be modified from time to time with the prior
written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any annexes or schedules
to such assessments.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
3. 
"Bank's Safeguards Policies" means the operational policies and procedures for
financing of development projects by the Bank at the date of this Agreement and
relating to Environmental Assessment, Natural Habitats, Pest Management,
Indigenous Peoples (Ethnic Minorities), Physical Cultural Resources, Involuntary
Resettlement, Forests, Safety of Dams, Projects on International Waterways, and
Projects in Disputed Areas, as published under www.WorldBank.org/opmanual.
4. 
"BIDV" means the Joint Stock Commercial Bank for Investment and Development
of Vietnam, established and operating pursuant to Business Registration
Certificate Number 0100150619, first registered on April 3, 1993, issued by
Department of Planning and Investment of Hanoi City; or any successor thereto.
5. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under 1BRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011, revised July 2014.
6. 
"Energy Efficiency Sub-loan" means an Energy Efficient Sub-loan provided by
the Project Financial Institutions (as hereinafter defined) to an Industrial Enterprise
(as hereinafter defined) or Energy Service Company (as hereinafter defined) under
Part 1 of the Project for the purpose of carrying out an Energy Efficiency Sub-
project (as hereinafter defined) under Part 1 of the Project.
7. 
"Energy Efficiency Sub-project" means a specific activity under Part 1 of the
Project carried out by an Industrial Enterprise or Energy Service Company under
Part 1 of the Project.
- 20 -
8. 
"Energy Service Companies" means, collectively energy service companies
selected by the Project Financial Institutions to receive Energy Efficiency Sub-
loans to carry out Energy Efficiency Sub-projects under Part 1 of the Project.
9. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" means the Borrower's
framework, prepared by the Ministry of Industry and Trade, as agreed with the
Bank on April 20, 2016, setting forth mitigation, enhancement, monitoring, and
institutional measures, including capacity building, to eliminate any adverse
environmental impacts of activities to be implemented under the Project, offset
them, or reduce them to acceptable levels, or enhance positive impacts, and
guidelines and procedures for the preparation of Environmental Management
Plans (as hereinafter defined), as the same may be modified from time to time with
the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any annexes or
schedules to such framework.
10. 
"Environmental 
Management 
Plans" 
means, 
collectively, 
the Industrial
Enterprises' or Energy Service Companies' (as hereinafter defined) plans, prepared
pursuant to the Environmental and Social Management Framework, and agreed
with the Bank, setting forth mitigation, enhancement, monitoring, and institutional
measures, including capacity building, to eliminate any adverse environmental
impacts of activities to be implemented under Energy Efficiency Sub-projects,
offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels, or enhance positive impacts, as
the same may be modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of
the Bank, and such term includes any annexes or schedules to such plans.
11. 
"Ethnic Minorities" means social groups disadvantaged in the development
process and with a social and cultural identity distinct from those which constitute
the predominant ethnic group in the Borrower's territory.
12. 
"Ethnic Minority Development Plans" means, collectively, the Industrial
Enterprises' or Energy Service Companies' plans, prepared pursuant to the
Environmental Minority Planning Framework, and agreed with the Bank, setting
forth the mitigation, enhancement, monitoring, and institutional measures,
including capacity building, to address any adverse effects on Ethnic Minorities
associated with, and ensure culturally appropriate social and economic benefits for
Ethnic Minorities under Energy Efficiency Sub-projects, as the same may be
modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such
term includes any annexes or schedules to such plans.
13. 
"Ethnic Minority Planning Framework" means the Borrower's framework,
prepared by the Ministry of Industry and Trade, as agreed with the Bank on April
20, 2016, and setting forth the mitigation, enhancement, monitoring, and
institutional measures, including capacity building, to ensure meaningful
consultation with, and the informed participation of, Ethnic Minorities within the
Project area who are affected by Energy Efficiency Sub-projects and guidelines
-21 -
and procedures for the preparation of Ethnic Minority Development Plans (as
hereinafter defined), as the same may be modified from time to time with the prior
written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any annexes or schedules
to such framework.
14. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
15. 
"Industrial Enterprises" means, collectively, the industrial enterprises selected by
the Project Financial Institutions to receive Energy Efficiency Sub-loans to carry
out Energy Efficiency Sub-projects under Part 1 of the Project.
16. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the incremental operating costs under the
Project incurred by the Borrower for purposes of Project management,
implementation, and monitoring and evaluation, including office supplies and
consumables, 
utilities, 
bank charges, 
communications, 
information 
and
communication campaigns, mass media and printing services, vehicle rental,
operation, maintenance, and insurance, office space rental, building and equipment
maintenance, travel, lodging, and subsistence allowances, and salaries of
contractual and temporary staff, but excluding salary and salary supplements of
staff of the Borrower's civil service ("c6ng chlc" and "vidn chCrc") and staff of the
implementing agencies.
17. 
"Involuntary Resettlement" means the following caused on account of Project
implementation: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in (i) relocation or
loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources
or means of livelihood, whether or not the affected person must move to another
location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and
protected areas resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of the affected
person.
18. 
"Ministry of Finance" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for finance, or a
successor thereto.
19. 
"Ministry of Industry and Trade" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for
the management of industry and trade, or a successor thereto.
20. 
"Operations Manual" means the Borrower's manual, agreed with the Bank, and
approved pursuant to the Borrower's Ministry of Industry and Trade's Decision
No. 2646/QD-BCT 
dated June 28, 
2016, 
setting out implementation,
organizational, administrative, monitoring and evaluation, financial management,
disbursement, 
and procurement 
arrangements 
for 
purposes 
of Project
implementation, as the same may be modified from time to time with the prior
- 22 -
written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any annexes or schedules
to such manual.
21. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011, revised July 2014.
22. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
March 6, 2017, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines
and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
23. 
"Project Affected Persons" means persons who, on account of implementation of
Energy Efficiency Sub-projects, have experienced or would experience direct
economic or social impacts caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting
in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss
of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move
to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated
parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such
persons.
24. 
"Project Financial Institutions" or "PFIs" means collectively BIDV and
VIETCOMBANK, and any additional financial institution selected by the
Borrower and agreed with the Bank; and the Project Implementing Entity for the
purpose of the General Conditions.
25. 
"Project Financial Institutions' Legislation" means any decisions or any laws and
regulations 
governing the organization, 
reorganization, restructuring, and
operations of the Project Financial Institutions as of the date of this Agreement.
26. 
"Project Management Board" means the Borrower's Project Management Board
under the direction of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, established pursuant to
Decision No. 74/QD-TCNL, dated November 23, 2012, or any successor thereto.
27. 
"Resettlement Plans" means, collectively, the Industrial Enterprises' or Energy
Service Companies' plans, prepared pursuant to the Resettlement Policy
Framework, and agreed with the Bank, setting forth the mitigation, enhancement,
monitoring, and institutional measures, including capacity building, to carry out
acquisition of land and other assets, compensation, resettlement, and rehabilitation,
including livelihood restoration, of Project Affected Persons under Energy
Efficiency Sub-projects, as the same may be modified from time to time with the
prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any annexes or
schedules to such plans.
- 23 -
28. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" means .the resettlement policy framework,
prepared and approved by the Borrower as agreed with the Bank on April 20, 2016,
setting forth the mitigation, enhancement, monitoring, and institutional measures,
including capacity building, to carry out acquisition of land and other assets,
compensation, resettlement, and rehabilitation, including livelihood restoration, of
Project Affected Persons, and guidelines and procedures for the preparation of
Resettlement Plans, as the same may be modified from time to time with the prior
written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any annexes or schedules
to such framework.
29. 
"Respective Part of the Project" means (a) Part 2 of the Project to be implemented
by the Borrower, through Ministry of Industry and Trade; (b) Part 1 of the Project
to be implemented by the Project Financial Institutions.
30. 
"Safeguards Instruments" means, collectively, the Environmental and Social
Management Framework, the Environmental Management Plans, any Additional
Environmental Impact Assessment, the Resettlement Policy Framework, the
Resettlement Plans, the Ethnic Minority Planning Framework, and the Ethnic
Minority Development Plans.
31. 
"Subsidiary Loan" means each subsidiary loan made available to the PFIs by the
Ministry of Finance out of the proceeds of the Loan of even date herewith to
finance activities carried out under Part 1 of the Project and in accordance with the
provisions of the Operations Manual, Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and the relevant Subsidiary Loan Agreement (as hereinafter defined).
32. 
"Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means, collectively, the agreements referred to in
Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall
make part of the proceeds of the Loan available to the PFIs; and "Subsidiary Loan
Agreement" means any one (1) of such agreements.
33. 
"VIETCOMBANK" means the Joint Stock Commercial Bank for Foreign Trade
of Vietnam, established and operating pursuant to the Business Registration
Certificate Number 0100112437 first registered on June 2, 2008, issued by the
Department of Planning and Investment of Hanoi City; or any successor thereto.
Section H. 
Modification to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
- 24 -
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge").
The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the
Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be
payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.0 1(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any
prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of
a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable
upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any
Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
