OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8702-AO
Loan Agreement
(Second Water Sector Institutional Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
July_14 
, 2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8702-AO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREFMINT dated 
July 14 -
2017, between the
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA ("Borrower") and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank").
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred million United States
Dollars (S200,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08
oi this Agreement ("Loan"). to assist in tinancing the project described in Schedule
I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
[V of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0,25%) of the Loan amount.
2 04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
'The interest payable by the Borrower for each [nterest Penod shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided,
that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the
General Conditions 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the
Withdrawn 1Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower
1
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(c) of the Gcneral
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April I and October I in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn. to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Vanable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05(c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
Fhe Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives o the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall carry out the Project, through MINEA, in collaboration with
INRH, LRSEA, and DNA, and with the assistance of the PWSUs, through the
respective Participating Agreement with respect to Parts 1(a) and 3 of the Project,
all shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement. and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwkise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consists of the followine:
(a) 
The Borrower has created the FCMU-WWAI D in a manner acceptable to
the Bank and has hired a senior financial management specialist, a Project
executive coordinator and two procurement specialists, with qualifications
and experience, and pursuant to terms of reference, satisfactory to the
Bank.
(b) 
The Project Implementation Manual, including financial management and
accounting procedures annexes, has been issued and adopted by the
Borrower, and approved by the Bank.
(c) 
The Borrower has: (i) opened the Project Account, in a commercial bank
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment, (ii) promptly thereafter
has made a deposit of two hundred fifty million Kwanzas (K250,000,000)
to finance the Borrower's initial contribution to the costs of the Project;
and (iii) purchased and installed new automated accounting software,
acceptable to the Bank.
id) 
[he Co-financing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to
make withdrawals under it (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement)
have been fulfilled.
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
-4-
ARTICLE V- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its rmnister responsible for finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Minist6rio das Finangas
Largo da Mutamba
Luanda, Angola
Facsimile:
-244 222 706 002:3
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 11 Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
I Ccx: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MC1)
-5-
AGREED at 
Luanda 
Republic of Angola 
as of the
day and year irst above wntten.
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
By:
Authorized Representative
Name: Augusto Archer Mangueira
Title: 
Minister of Finance
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By:
Authonzed Representative
Name- Clara Ana Coutinho de Sousa
Title 
Country Manager
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to strengthen the institutional capacity of selected
water sector agencies and increase water service coverage in Target Cities.
Part 1: 
Water Supply Institutional Strengthenin2 and Capacity Development
Strengthcning of the institutional framework for the water and sanitation sector
and huilding capacity at the Borrower's water and sanitation agencies at both national and
provincial levels, through:
(a) 
the provision of technical assistance and operational support for the
strengthening of PWSUs' management capacities and customer service,
including the provision of Performance Payments;
(b) 
the provision of technical assistance and capacity building to IRSEA to
build its capacity to fulfil its responsibilities as the Borrower's water and
sanitation regulator, including: (i) definition of IRSEA's organizational
structure, staffing and skills requirements; (ii) a beneficiary assessment;
(iii) development of water and sanitation regulatory instruments (including
reporting requirements, service standards, cost accounting standards, tariff
application procedures); (iv) design and development of an information
system/database for the water and sanitation sector; and (v) training and
capacity building; and
(c) 
the carrying out of a study on private sector participation in the water
sector to assess the potential for private sector participation in the water
sector.
Part 2: 
Water Resources Management
Strengthening of the institutional framework for water resource management,
through the provision of support for:
(a) 
INRH central and regional directorates needed for the management of
hydro-meteorological information:
(b) 
INRH at the central level, including: (i) direct advisory and training
services to INRH and selected regional directorates; (ii) the preparation of
the INRH Strategic Plan; (iii) design and implementation of a public
awareness 
and communications 
campaign; 
and 
(iv) 
design and
implementation 
of an 
economic 
instrument 
for 
water 
resources
management;
(c) 
the design and implementation of an information management system for
INRII including specifications of hardware and software needed;
(d) 
the expansion of the Borrower's hydro meteorological monitoring network
consistent with the 2008 recommendations of the World Meteorological
Organization (with coverage of 1,875 square kilometers per station),
including: (i) the reconstruction of prioritized hydrometric stations,
including provision of equipment, services, goods and minor works,
(ii) 
the upgrade of prioritized 
hydrometric 
stations 
to include
meteorological monitoring capabilities: and (iii) the support to manage the
hydro meteorological monitonng network:
(e) 
[NRHFf for: (i) the development and implementation of specific river basin
plans, including the implementation of priority actions identified under the
applicable plan; (ii) the piloting of the instrument for water resources
management developed under Part 2(b)(iv) of the Project, with respect to
the Kwanza River, including a comprehensive water user inventory.
consolidation of procedures and instruments for water use permits,
training and workshops with relevant stakeholders, dissemination
materials, publications and evaluation of its impact; and (iii) the
preparation of two additional integrated river basin management plans in
the Borrower's southern coastal region; and
(f) 
INRH for the preparation of a national dam safety plan including: (i) the
carrying out of a national inventory of existing dams and reservoirs,
including a description of main characteristics: (ii) an assessment by a
panel of experts of the safety status of prioritized dams, including the
preparation of an investment plan and other activities; (iii) preparation of
the legal and regulatory dam safety framework, including institutional
responsibilities, standards and technical safety guidelines; and (iv) the
development of a capacity-building program to support the dam safety
related activities described above.
Part 3: 
Rehabilitation and Expansion of Water Supply Production and
Distribution
Provision of support to the PWSUs for the development of priority infrastructure
to expand system capacity. to increase service coverage and quality. and to improve the
operating efficiency of the production and distribution systems in Target Cities, through:
(a) 
the rehabilitation and expansion of production facilities, including: (i) the
carrving out of civil and electro- mechanical works to improve water
production in Target Cities required to support expanding service
coverage; (ii) expansion and refirbishrnent of well fields and intake
facilities, as well as expansion and refurbishment of water treatment
-8-
facilities; 
(iii) 
construction of clear-water storage tanks and the
rehabilitation and expansion of transmission infrastructure, including new
pipelines, pump stations, telemetry/SCADA, and associated fittings; and
(b) 
the rehabilitation and expansion of distribution systems, including: (i) the
development of priority infrastructure to increase service coverage and
improve operational efficiency of the water distribution systems in Target
Cities- (ii) 
the rehabilitation of existing and construction of new
distribution centers, including increasing storage with ground tanks and
pressure through elevated water towers: (iii) water supply network
expansion and rehabilitation; (iv) installation of district meters and
pressure control valves within existing pipelines; and (v) installation of
approximately 186,500 new household connections with meters.
Part 4: 
Management and Engineering Support
Provision of goods, operational costs. engineering support, training and technical
assistance for Project management, technical oversight. financial management, monitoring
and evaluation, implementation of social and environmental safeguards, as well as other
investments in the water sector, including: (a) the carrying out of engineering and other
technical studies: (b) the design and supervision of works and performance contracts; (c)
support for community consultation and communication activities; and (d) the update of
sanitation master plans in the capital cities of selected provinces, including stakeholders
consultative process.
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section 1. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1I 
The Borrower. through MINFA, shall: (a) create and thereafter maintain a unit (the
FCMU-WBWAFD) within MINEA, at all times during Project implementation,
with a structure, functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, including,
inter alia, the responsibility of the FCMU-WB;AFD to assist the Borrower in the
coordination, implementation, monitoring, evaluation and supervision of the
Project; (b) ensure that the FCMU-WB AFD is. at all times during Project
implementation, headed by a Project executive coordinator and staffed with a
senior financial management specialist, two procurement specialists, 
two
procurement officers, an accountant and professional and administrative staff, all
hired with terms of reference, through competitive processes, in numbers and with
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank: and (c) except as the
Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree in writing, the Bor-rower shall not
introduce changes in the number of positions of the FCMU-WBiAFD or in the
professional skills required for occupying such positions, unless said changes have
been previously agreed in writing with the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower, through MINEA, shall carry out the Project in accordance with a
manual (the Project Implementation Manual), acceptable to the Bank, said manual
to include, inter alia: (i) an institutional implementation plan for MINEA for the
management of the Project, including allocation of responsibilities among staff,
yearly planning of activities and budget and time allocation for those activities;
(ii) financial management and accounting procedures annexes; (ii) detailed
arrangements for the overall carrying out of the Project including, the procurement,
environmental and social guidelines to be followed during Project implementation
by the Borrower; (iv) detailed guidelines and procedures for the implementation
of the ESMF and RPF in connection with the carrying out of the Project;
(v) detailed guidelines for the preparation of Environmental Management Plans
and Resettlement Action Plans; (vi) the guidelines for Project monitoring and
evaluation: (vii) 
the detailed procedures and guidelines for the determination of
performance targets of the PWSUs for the purposes of monitoring and evaluating
annually the collected revenues and costs of operation, and (viii) the detailed
procedures and guidelines for the provision of Performance Payments to PWSUs
that have exceeded the performance targets specified in paragraph (vii) above.
3. 
E xcept as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower
shall not abrogate. amend, repeal. suspend, waine or otherwise fail to enforce the
Project Impleirientation Manual or any provision thereof and in case o any conflict
-10-
between the terms of the Project Implementation Manual and those of this
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
4. 
The Borrower, through MINEA, shall not later than July I of each year during
Project implementation, or such later date as the Bank may determine, starting in
calendar year 2017, furnish to the Bank for approval, an annual action plan (the
Annual Action Plan), each said plan to include: (i) the Project activities to be carried
out during the twelve (12) months immediately following the presentation of each
said plan, (ii) the procurement plan, and disbursement schedule for each said twelve
(12) month period; (iii) the annual budget for Operating Costs for the Project; (iv)
the annual budget for Training under the Project; and (v) the amount of counterpart
funds needed and to be provided by the Borrower to carry out the Project activities
during said twelve (12) month period and thereafter implement each said Annual
Action Plan, approved by the Bank, in accordance with its terms.
5. 
The Borrower shall, not later than September 30, 2020, or such later date as may be
agreed upon by the Borrower and the Bank, carry out a mid-term review of the
Project, covering the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project.
6. 
The Borrower shall: (a) have all the procurement records and documentation of the
Project audited every two (2) years in accordance with appropriate procurement
auditing principles by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, commencing on
the calendar year in which the first withdrawal under the Project was made; and (b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six (6) months
after the end of each such year, the procurement audit report of such audit by said
auditors.
B. 
Participation of Provinces and PWSUs
1 .
For the purposes of implementing Parts 1(a) and 3 of the Project, the Borrower
shall enter into an agreement with a Participating Province (the Participation
Agreement), in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. Said Participation
Agreement shall include:
(a) 
the allocation of responsibilities for the development and management of
PWSUs;
(b) 
the obligation of the Participating Province to comply with the applicable
provisions of this Agreement;
(c) 
the performance targets of the PWSUs for purposes of monitoring and
evaluating annually the collected revenues and costs of operation,
(d) 
the agreed works to be financed by the Project in the Target Citics;
() 
the necessary covenants to ensure that not later than September 30 of each
year of the Project, the Participating Province, jointly with the respective
PWSU, prepare and thereafter submit to [RSLA, a financing plan for its
PWSU describing: (i) how the operating costs of the PWSU will be
financed; and (ii) the planned adjustments to tariff levels, levels of
collections, and levels of subsidies required to achieve the agreed levels of
cost recovery for the following two (2) calendar years;
(f) 
the necessary covenants to ensure that the respective Participating
Province take measures to ensure that its PWSUs do not incur in any debt
unless a reasonable forecast of their revenues and expenditures shows that
their projected earnings before interest, taxes, and depreciation for each
fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred, is at least 1.5 times
the projected debt service; and
(g) 
the necessary covenants to ensure that each PWSt 's collected revenue
should cover at a minimum an increasing share of their operating costs, as
follows: (i) 35% in the first audited year; (ii) 50% the second audited year;
(ni) 70% in the third audited year; (iv) 80% in the fourth audited year; and
(v) more than 100% after the fifth audited year.
2. 
The Borrower, through FCMU-WB/AFD, not later than six (6) months after the
end of each Fiscal Year (starting on 2018 for existing PWSUs and after the first
year of operations for those PWSUs created during Project implementation), shall
submit to the Bank an annual audit report for each PWSU, prepared by independent
auditors and in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. Said
audit report shall include: (a) any deviations to existing Borrower's tariff policies,
together with a justification for said deviation; and (b) evidence that each PWSU's
co!lected revenue covers at a minimum an increasmg share of their operating costs.
3. 
The Borrower may provide Performance Payments to any eligible PWSUs after
the respective annual audit report of said eligible PWSU had demonstrated that the
performance targets detailed in Section L.B.1(g) of this Schedule were achieved or
exceeded, all in a form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
'Ihe Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of the
Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
-12 -
D. 
Safeguards
1. 
Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF)
The Borrower shall; (a) implement the Project in accordance with the ESMF; and
(b) when required by the ESMF, prepare and implement Environmental and Social
Impact Assessment or Environmental and Social Management Plans for site-specific
investments under the Project, in accordance with the ESMF, defining a program of
actions, measures and policies to avoid, minimize, mitigate, and offset potential
adverse environmental and social impacts, as a result of the carrying out of the
Project, together with adequate institutional and systematic, monitoring and
reporting arrangements capable of ensuring proper implementation of said
Environmental and Social Impact Assessments or Environmental and Social
Management Plans-
2. 
Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF)
The Borrower shall: (a) implement the Project in accordance with the RPF; and
(b) when required by the RPF, prepare and implement Resettlement Action Plans in
accordance with the RPF, defining a program of actions, measures and policies for
compensation and resettlement of Affected Persons, as a result of the carrying out
of the Project, including the magnitude of displacement, proposed compensation
and resettlement arrangements, budget and cost estimates, and sources of funding,
together with adequate institutional, monitoring and reporting arrangements capable
of ensuring proper implementation of said Resettlement Action Plans.
3. 
Other Safeguards Considerations
(a) 
With respect to any activities under Parts 2(d) and 3 of the Project, the
Borrower shall refrain from starting any works until and unless: (i) the
proposed activities have been screened in accordance with the guidelines,
standards and procedures set forth in the ESMF and RPF: (ii) the
respective EMP and/or, RAP required for such activities pursuant to the
ESMF or, RPF, respectively, has/have been prepared and implemented, in
agreement with the Bank; and (iii) the foregoing Safeguards Documents
have been publicly disclosed.
(b) 
The Borrower shall ensure that the terms of reference for any consultancy
related to the preparation of the Dam Safety Plan under Part 2(f) of the
Project, shall be satisfactory to the Bank and, to that end, such terms of
reference 
shall 
require 
that the 
advice 
conveyed 
through 
such
consultancies and technical assistance be consistent with the requirements
of the Bank Policies on Safety of Dams.
- 13 -
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower through MINEA shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the
Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar quarter, and
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of
the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of
each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering
the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements for the Project audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each
audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (I) fiscal year of the
Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
4. 
The Borrower shall, not later than four (4) months after the Effective Date: (a) hire
a Project accountant under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; and (b) hire
the Project's external and internal auditors with terms of reference, qualifications
and experience satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with the provisions of this
Section.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
I. 
Goods, Works, and Non-Consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
- 14 -
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described 
n Sections 11 and Ill of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works, and Non-Consulting
Services
I. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works, and Non-Consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works, and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive
Bidding; (b) Shopping, arid (c) Direct Contracting.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following
methods, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan: (a) Selection under a Fixed-Budget: (b) Least-Cost Selection;
(c) Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications (d) Single-source Selection of
consulting firms, (c) Selection of Individual Consultants: and (f) Single-source
procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
t
-15 
-
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised
from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant
to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 below.
2 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
t
-16-
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, non-consulting services, 
I 8.700,000 
45%
consultants' services, Operating
Costs, and Training for Part 1(a)
of the Project
(2) Goods, non-consulting services, 
8,600,000 
45%
consultants' services, Operating
Costs, and Training for Parts 1(b)
and (c) of the Project
(3) Goods. consultants' services, 
12,000,000 
45%
Operating Costs, and Training for
Parts 2(a). (b), (c), (e) and (f) of
the Project
(4) Goods, Works, consultants' 
2,000,000 
45%
services, Operating Costs, and
Training for Part 2(d) of the
Projec t
(5) Goods. Works, consultants' 
131,000,000 
45%
services, and Operating Costs for
Part 3 of the Project
(6) Goods, consultants' services 
25,000.000 
45%
(including audits), Training and
Operating Costs for Part 4 of the
Project
(7) Performance Payments 
2,200,000 
45%
(8) Front-end Fee 
500,000 
Amount payable
pursuant to Section
203 of this Agreement
in accordance with
Section 2.07(b) of the
General Conditions
(9) Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
-0- 
Amount due pursuant
Collar premium 
to Section 2.08(c) of
this Agreement
TF 
OTAL AMOUN'r 
200,000,000
- 17 -
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 520.000,000 may be
made for payments made prior to this date but on or after December 2,
2016, but not earlier than 12 months from the date of this Agreement, for
Eligible Expenditures under Categories (2), (3), (4) and (6);
(b) 
under Categories (1) and (5) for each Participating Province unless the
Borrower has submitted evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that with
respect to said particular Participating Province, the Participating
Agreement between the Borrower. through MINFA. and the respective
Participating Province have been signed; and
(c) 
under Category (7) unless the Borrower has submitted to the Bank the
annual audit report referred to in Section L.B.2 of this Schedule for the
respective PWSU, indicating that the targets were achieved or exceeded,
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
2. 
The Closing Date is March 31, 2024.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Pay ment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Pricipal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Principal Payment Date 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each April I and October 1 
2 08%
Beginning April 1, 2023,
through April 1, 2046
On October 1, 2046 
2.24%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payrnent Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amiount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (Original 
Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
- 19-
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (a) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approx ed Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Fledge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (b) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
- 20 -
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
*Affected Persons" means persons who, on account of an involuntary taking of
land under the Project, had or would have their: (a) standard of living adversely
affected; or (b) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises,
agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or
possessed, temporarily or permanently or (c) access to productive assets adversely
affected, temporarily or permanently; or (d) business, occupation, work or place of
residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; and "Affected
Person" means any of the Affected Persons.
2. 
"Annual Action Plan" means any of the plans referred to in Section A.3 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
3. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing 
and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
4. 
"Bank Policy on Safety of Dams" means the Bank's operational policy and
procedures set forth in the Bank's Operational Manual under OP/BP 4.37 on safety
of Dams, as said manual is published under www.WorldBank.org/opmanual
5. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
6. 
"Co-financier"' 
means 
Agence Franaizse de Developpement, the French
Development Agency.
7. 
"Co-financing" means, for purposes of paragraph 16 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, an amount of $150,000,000 to be provided by the Co-financier
to assist in financing the Project.
8. 
"Co-financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Co-financier providing for the Co-financing
9. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
10. 
"DNA" means irec(ao Nacional de iguas, the Borrower's National Water
Directorate within MINEA.
11. 
"Environmental Management Plan" means each plan to he prepared and adopted
by the Borrower pursuant to the FSMF, as may be required, setting out the
-21 -
measures to be taken for the avoidance, minimization, mitigation and offsetting of
potential adverse environmental and social impacts of the activities to be
implemented under the Project, as each said plan may be amended and/or
supplemented from time to time with the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
12. 
"ESMF" means the Borrower's environmental and social management framework
dated October 6. 2016, setting forth the policy framework, principles, standards,
processes and institutional arrangements to be applied to assess potential adverse
environmental and social impacts associated with the Project, and the ways to
avoid, minimize, mitigate or offset them, including public consultation, disclosure
and reporting, as the said framework may be amended and/or supplemented from
time to time with the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
13. 
'FCMUWBAFD" means the Financial and Contract Management Unit within
MINFA and referred to in Section 1.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
14. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12. 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section 11 of this Appendix.
15. 
"tNRH" means Instituto Nacional de Recursos Hidricos, the Borrower's National
Institute of Water Resources.
16. 
"IRSIA" means Instituto de Regulacdo dos Servi(ov de Eletricidade, Agua e
Saneamento de Aguas Residuais, the Borrower's Institute of Electricy and Water
Services Regulation.
17. 
"Kwanza" means the lawful currency of the Borrower.
IS. 
"MINEA" means the Mimisterio dc Energia e Aguas Borrower's Ministry of
Energy and Water.
19. 
"Operating Costs" means reasonable recurrent Project expenditures, based on an
annual budget previously approved by the Bank, that would not have been incurred
by the Borrower absent the Project, including: (a) office equipment and supplies;
(b) office utilities and reasonable communications expenses; (c) office rental
expenses; (d) Project's vehicles maintenance costs, fuel and spare parts; (c) travel
expenses and per diems for official Project staff (excluding salaries of Borrower's
civil servants); and (f) operation and maintenance of office equipment, financed
with the proceeds of the Loan, all needed for the implementation and supervision
of the Project.
20. 
"Participation Agreement" means the agreement referred to in paragraph B.1 of
Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any
annexes and schedules to the Participation Agreement.
21. 
'Participating Province" means a political subdivision of the Borrower, selected
by the Borrower, in consultation with the Bank, according to the eligibility criteria
set forth in the Implementation Manual.
22. 
-Performance Payment" means the payments to be made to PWSUs out of the
proceeds of the Loan, as incentives for exceeding the performance targets set forth
in the relevant Participation Agreement.
23. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-Consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
24. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
August 19, 2016, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines
and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
25. 
"Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 5.01(c) of the
Agreement and in paragraph 8 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
26. 
-Project Implementation Manual" means the manual referred to in paragraph 3 of
Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any
annexes and schedules to the Operational Manual.
27. 
"PWSUs" means autonomous provincial water supply and sanitation utility
companies created and/or to be created pursuant to the provisions of the Public
Enterpnse Law Number I11 /13 of September 3, 2013.
28. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" means each plan to be prepared pursuant to the RPF as
may be required, setting out the pnnciples, procedures, the time schedule governing
acquisition of nghts to land, resettIlement and compensation, as well as reporting and
monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan.
29. 
"RPF" means the Borrower's resettlement policy framework satisfactory to the Bank,
dated October 5, 2016, setting forth the guidelines and procedures for preparation of
a Resettlement Action Plan in the likely event of acquisition of rights to land,
resetilement procedures and compensation, institutional arrangements, including
valuation procedures, budget, public consultation and participation, monitoring and
evaluation, and disclosure, as the same may be amended from time to time with the
agreement of the Bank.
- 23 -
30. 
"Target Cities" means the cities of Kuito, Huambo, Lubango, Moamedes,
N'Dalatando, Malanje, Uige, Dumlo, Luanda and Luena,
31. 
"Training" means reasonable expenditures, based on an annual budget previously
approved by the Bank, (other than those for consultants' services) incurred by the
Borrower, to finance transportation costs and per diem of trainers and trainees,
workshops, rental of training facilities and acquisition of training equipment and
material needed for the Project.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
I. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01> 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee. Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
det7nion of' "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3 01 w:th Section 3.01(a).
- 24 -
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any
prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of
a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable
upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any
UInwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
7, 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
