OFFICIAL Lw 
6
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8648-BO
Loan Agreement
Santa Cruz Road Corridor Connector Project (San Ignacio - San Jose)
between
PLURINATIONAL STATE OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated Fe-!>OUE4e 
2 
, 201_-
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8648-BO
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated -FAra 
, 2011 between PLURINATIONAL 
STATE OF
BOLIVIA (Borrower") and INTMRNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred million Dollars (USD 200,000,000), as
such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in
financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e)
of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest
rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the
Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Administradora Boliviana de
Carreteras (ABC) in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions
and the ABC Subsidiary Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project
is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
ABC shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations under the ABC
Subsidiary Agreement.
(b) 
ABC's Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived
so as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of
ABC to perform any of its obligations under the ABC Subsidiary Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that any of the
events specified in Section 4.01 (a) or (b) of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V-- 
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The ABC Subsidiary Agreement has been signed on behalf of the Borrower and
ABC.
(b) 
The Operational Manual has been duly adopted by ABC in a manner acceptable to
the Bank.
(c) 
The Financing Agreement has been signed and delivered and all conditions
precedent to its effectiveness (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement) have
been fulfilled.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred fifty (150) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Development Planning.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministerio de Planificaci6n del Desarrollo
Avenida Mariscal Santa Cruz 1092
Edificio Ex-Comibol
La Paz, Bolivia
Facsimile: 
+591-2-3118473
3
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
AGREED at Za 
a S2 
O 
/ped 
r 
d/ 
z0/ 
3  
,V 
, as of the day and year
first above written.
PLURINATIONAL STATE OF BOLIVIA
By 
Vl/CatI 
o 0
Avfrnrized 
e resentative
Name:
Title: 
/ 
,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
2& 
92izV
Title:
4
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve transport accessibility along the road corridor
between San Ignacio de Velasco and San Jos6 de Chiquitos.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A. Road Upgrading
1. 
(a) Upgrading of approximately 208 kilometers of the Borrower's primary road network
between San Ignacio de Velasco and San Jos6 de Chiquitos, including, the construction of
a limited number of bypasses (including carrying out the technical design and construction
of the bypass in San Ignacio de Velasco) and bridges, as further described in the
Operational Manual; and (b) when applicable, as determined by the Bank, carrying out of
Technical Audits.
2. 
Providing support (through the provision of small works, goods, Training and technical
assistance, as the case may be) for the implementation and supervision of the
Environmental Impact Assessment/Environmental Management Plan, the Resettlement
Action Plan, the Resettlement Policy Framework and the Indigenous Peoples Plan.
Part B. Technical Studies and Project Management
1. 
Carrying out preparatory activities for the upgrading (not financed under this Project) of
selected segments of the road corridor between San Matias and San Ignacio de Velasco,
including, the preparation of relevant feasibility studies (including technical, economic,
environmental and social aspects) and bidding documents, excluding from the Project the
upgrading works of the selected road segments.
2. 
Carrying out of relevant gender studies and poverty and social impact analyses.
3. 
Provision of support for the implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the Project
including, inter alia: (a) the carrying out of the Project audits; and (b) the carrying out of
capacity building activities on, inter alia, road asset management.
5
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
The Borrower shall cause ABC to:
1. 
Assign responsibility for the management, implementation, monitoring and reporting of
the Project among its central and regional offices, as described in detail in the Operational
Manual;
2. 
operate and maintain throughout Project implementation, its technical and administrative
units, with qualified staff in sufficient numbers (including as may be needed, specialists in,
inter alia, financial management and procurement), adequate funds, facilities, services and
other resources for Project implementation, all acceptable to the Bank;
3. 
(a) carry out the Project in accordance with the requirements set forth in a manual
acceptable to the Bank (Operational Manual or OM); and (b) not to assign, amend,
abrogate, or waive the OM or any of its provisions, except with the prior written approval
of the Bank. In case of any conflict between the terms of the OM and those of this
Agreement, the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall prevail; and
4. 
operate and maintain, throughout Project implementation, an accessible grievance redress
mechanism, acceptable to the Bank, to address grievances relating to the carrying out of
the civil works under Part A of the Project.
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project by ABC, the Borrower shall make the proceeds
of the Loan available to ABC under an agreement (ABC Subsidiary Agreement) to be
entered between the Borrower and ABC, under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank, which shall include, inter alia, the obligation of ABC to carry out the Project in
accordance with the provisions set forth in this Schedule 2, the Operational Manual and
the Anti-corruption Guidelines.
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the ABC
Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. The Borrower shall not take any action
in respect of the ABC Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions which shall affect
materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of ABC to perform any of
its obligations under said ABC Subsidiary Agreement. In case of any conflict between the
provisions of the ABC Subsidiary Agreement and those of this Agreement, the provisions
of this Agreement shall prevail.
6
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall cause ABC to carry out the Project in accordance with the
Environmental Impact Assessment/Environmental Management Plan (EIA/EMP), the
Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF), the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) and the
Indigenous Peoples Plan (IPP). Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause ABC to not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the EIA/EMP, the RPF, the RAP
and/or the IPP, or any of their provisions.
2. 
Without limitation to the provisions set forth in paragraph I above, for the purposes of
carrying out any works under Part A (except for the construction works of the bypass of
San Ignacio de Velasco) of the Project, the Borrower shall cause ABC to carry out the
works in accordance with the provisions of the Resettlement Action Plan, including full
payment of compensation and/or the provision of relocation assistance to all affected
persons, prior to any displacement.
3. 
Without limitation to the provisions set forth in paragraph I and 2 above, and after the final
detailed designs of works regarding the bypass of San Ignacio de Velasco have been
completed, the Borrower shall cause ABC to, if Involuntary Resettlement is involved: (a)
prepare and disclose, prior to commencement of any works, a site-specific resettlement
action plan acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with the RPF; and (b) immediately
thereafter, carry out said works in accordance with the provisions of said site-specific
resettlement action plan and in a manner acceptable to the Bank, including full payment of
compensation and/or the provision of relocation to all affected persons, prior to any
displacement.
4. 
The Borrower shall cause ABC to ensure that the proceeds of the Loan are not used for the
acquisition of land without the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
5. 
The Borrower shall cause ABC to ensure that the terms of reference for any technical
assistance provided under the Project, shall be satisfactory to the Bank, and to that end,
such terms of reference shall require that the advice conveyed through such technical
assistance be consistent with the requirements of the Bank's Safeguards Policies and
Procedures.
Section H. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports and Mid-term Review
1. 
The Borrower shall cause ABC to: (a) jointly with the Borrower, monitor and evaluate the
progress of the Project; and (b) prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions
of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the
Bank and set forth in the Operational Manual. Each Project Report shall cover the period
7
of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one month after
the end of the period covered by each report.
2. 
Without limitations to the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the Borrower shall, by
October 15, 2018, or such other date as the Bank shall agree upon, carry out jointly with
ABC and the Bank, a mid-term review of the implementation of the activities under the
Project (Mid-term Review). The Mid-term Review shall cover the progress achieved in the
implementation of the Project. Following such Mid-term Review, the Borrower shall act
promptly and diligently to take and/or cause ABC to take, any corrective action as shall
have been agreed with the Bank.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall cause
ABC to prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than thirty (30) days after the end of each
calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the pertinent
calendar semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause ABC to have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with
the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial
Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months
after the end of such period.
C. 
Technical Audits
In implementing Part A of the Project, as applicable, as determined by the Bank, the
Borrower shall cause ABC to: (a) prepare and furnish to the Bank, an independent technical
audit (Technical Audit) in form and substance acceptable to the Bank which shall include,
inter alia: (1) a description of all the findings and results; (2) a list of proposed measures
and actions to be taken to resolve the issues identified under (1) above; and (3) a proposed
timeline for the implementation of said measures and actions; (b) afford the Bank a
reasonable opportunity to exchange views on such Technical Audit; and (c) thereafter
implement such recommended measures, taking into account the Bank's views on the
matter.
Section HI. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section and Section I of Annex A
to this Schedule.
8
2. 
Consultants' Services. 
All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section and Section II of Annex A to this Schedule.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to the
corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the Procurement Guidelines, or
Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional
provisions set forth in Section I of Annex A to this Schedule; (b) Shopping; and (c) Direct
Contracting.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality and
Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following methods, other
than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of consultants'
services for those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based
Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; (d) Selection based
on Consultants' Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f)
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the
Selection of Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
9
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank Disbursement
Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as
made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures
in each Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non- 
199,500,000
consulting services, consultants' 
100%
services, Training and Operating
Costs for the Project
(2) Front-end Fee 
500,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(3) Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Rate Collar premium 
Section 2.08(c) of this
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
200,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made from
the Loan Account for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed USD40,000,000 may be made for
payments made prior to this date but on or after the date twelve (12) months prior to the
date of this Agreement, for Eligible Expenditures under the Project.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2021.
10
Annex A
to
SCHEDULE 2
Additional Provisions Relating to
Particular Methods of Procurement
Section I. 
Goods, Works and Non-Consulting Services
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement or the
Procurement Guidelines, the following additional provisions shall apply to all goods, works and
non-consulting services procured for the Project and awarded on the basis of National Competitive
Bidding procedures (Proceso de Licitacidn Abierta) set forth in the Borrower's Supreme Decree
No. 181, dated June 28, 2009 (Normas Bdsicas del Sistema de Administracidn de Bienes y
Servicios), as amended through Supreme Decree No. 1497, dated February 20, 2013:
1. 
A merit point system shall not be used in the pre-qualification of bidders.
2. 
The award of contracts for goods, works and non-consulting services shall be based
exclusively on price and, whenever appropriate, shall also take into account factors similar
to those referred to in paragraph 2.52 of the Procurement Guidelines, provided, however,
that the bid evaluation shall always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively,
and the procedure for such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid.
3. 
All bids shall be opened at the stipulated time and place in accordance with a procedure
acceptable to the Bank.
4. 
The single envelope procedure shall be used.
5. 
Whenever a discrepancy shall occur between the amounts in figures and the amounts in
words of a bid, the amounts in words shall govern. No bid shall be rejected due to arithmetic
errors.
6. 
No prescribed minimum number of bids shall be required to be submitted for a contract to
be subsequently awarded.
7. 
Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate.
8. 
Foreign bidders shall not be required to legalize any documentation related to their bids
with the Borrower's authorities as a prerequisite for bidding.
9. 
Bidders shall not be required, as condition for submitting their bids, to be registered in the
Borrower's Registro Unico de Proveedores del Estado (RUPE).
10. 
No margin of preference shall be granted for any particular category of bidders.
11
11. 
In the event that a bidder whose bid was evaluated as the bid with the lowest evaluated
price withdraws its bid, the contract may be awarded to the next lowest responsive
evaluated bid.
12. 
Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting bids, be required to enter into a
joint venture agreement with local bidders.
13. 
No procurement rules or regulations of neither of the Borrower's agencies, nor of any state-
owned entity shall apply without the prior review and consent of the Bank.
14. 
Borrower state-owned enterprises shall be allowed to participate in bids only upon their
compliance with the provisions of paragraph 1.10 (b) of the Procurement Guidelines.
15. 
No contractor or supplier shall be denied fair and equitable treatment in any dispute
resolution with the Borrower and/or any of its implementing entities.
16. 
No reference value shall be required for publication in the bidding documents or used for
the purpose of evaluation.
17. 
Bidding documents for NCB shall include anticorruption clauses that shall be substantially
identical to those pertaining to the Bank Standard Bidding Documents for ICB.
Section H. 
Selection of Consultant Services
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement or the
Consultant Guidelines, the following additional provisions shall apply to all consultants' services
procured for the Project:
1. 
Consultants shall not be required, as condition for participating in the selection process, to
be registered in the Registro Unico de Proveedores del Estado (RUPE).
2. 
Foreign consultants shall not be required, as a condition for participating in the selection
process, to enter into ajoint venture agreement with local consultants, unless the conditions
stated in paragraph 1.15 of the Consultant Guidelines are met.
3. 
Foreign consultants shall not be required, as a condition for participating in the selection
process, to legalize their proposals or any documentation related to such proposals with the
Borrower's authorities.
4. 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be registered in the Borrower's National
Registry of Consultants (Registro Nacional de Consultoria).
5. 
Consultants, either firms or individuals, shall not be required to present performance
securities as a condition to present proposals and sign an awarded contract.
6. 
Consultants, either firms or individuals, shall not be denied fair and equitable treatment in
any dispute resolution with the Borrower and/or any of its implementing entities.
12
7. 
Consultants, either firms or individuals, shall not be required to sign consultant services'
contracts containing a retention amount fee clause.
8. 
Borrower state-owned enterprises shall be allowed to participate in the selection process
only upon their compliance with the provisions of paragraph 1.13 (b) of the Consultant
Guidelines.
9. 
The Request for Proposals shall include anti-corruption clauses that shall be substantially
identical to those pertaining to the Bank's Request for Proposals.
13
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: 
(a)
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment
Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary,
to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
October 15, 2030 
20%
April 15, 2031 
20%
October 15, 2031 
20%
April 15, 2032 
20%
October 15, 2032 
20%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as
of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding
on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall
14
be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating
to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
15
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"ABC' Legislation" means the Borrower's Law No. 3507 dated October 27, 2006 as
regulated by Supreme Decree No. 28946, dated November 25, 2006.
2. 
"ABC Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.B.1 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall transfer the proceeds
of the Loan to ABC for the carrying out of the Project.
3. 
"Administradora Boliviana de Carreteras" or "ABC" means the Borrower's entity
responsible for the administration and management of the Borrower's primary road
network, created through Law No. 3507 of October 27, 2006, or any legal successor
thereto.
4. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated
October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
5. 
"Bank's Safeguards Policies and Procedures" means the operational policies and
procedures of the Bank (as the same may be amended from time to time by the Bank) set
forth in the Bank's Operational Manual and identified as Environmental Assessment
(OP/BP 4.01), Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04), Forests (OP/BP 4.36), Pest Management
(OP/BP 4.09), Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10), Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP
4.11), Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12), Forestry (OP/BP 4.36), Safety of Dams
(OP/BP 4.37), Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50), and Projects in Disputed
Areas (OP/BP 7.60), as said manual is published under www.worldbank.org.
6. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
7. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January
2011 (revised July 2014).
8. 
"Department of Santa Cruz" means Departamento de Santa Cruz, one the Borrower's
departments.
9. 
"Environmental Impact Assessment/Environmental Management Plan" or "EIA/EMP"
means the environmental impact assessment, acceptable to the Bank, which includes an
environmental management plan, prepared by ABC, acceptable to the Bank, and published
in the Borrower's territory and on the Bank's external website on December 5, 2016, which
contains, inter alia, site-specific environmental mitigation measures anticipated for
activities under the Project, including measures for chance findings of physical cultural
property, as said EIA/EMP may be amended from time to time with the Bank's prior written
approval.
16
10. 
"Financing Agreement" means the agreement between the Borrower and the Association
for the Project, of the same date as this Agreement, as such agreement may be amended
from time to time. 
"Financing Agreement" includes all appendices, schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Financing Agreement.
11. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
12. 
"Indigenous Peoples Plan" or "IPP" means the indigenous peoples plan prepared by ABC,
acceptable to the Bank, and published in the Borrower's territory on January 21, 2016 and
on the Bank's external website on May 25, 2016, which contains, inter alia: (a) a
framework for ensuring free, prior and informed consultation with the affected indigenous
peoples' communities during Project implementation; (b) an action plan of measures
(including gender-oriented measures) to ensure that the indigenous peoples' communities
benefit from the Project in a manner that is culturally appropriate, including, when
necessary, through the provision of Training; (c) accessible procedures to address
grievances by the indigenous peoples' communities arising from Project implementation;
and (d) a mechanism and benchmarks for monitoring, evaluating and reporting on the IPP
implementation; as said plan may be amended from time to time with the Bank's prior
written approval.
13. 
"Involuntary Resettlement" means the impact of: (a) an involuntary taking of land under
the Project, which taking causes affected persons to have their: (i) standard of living
adversely affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises,
agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed,
temporarily or permanently; or (iii) access to productive assets adversely affected,
temporarily or permanently; or (iv) business, occupation, work or place of residence or
habitat adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (b) an involuntary restriction of
access to legally designated parks and protected areas (including reserves) which causes
an adverse impact on the livelihoods of the affected persons.
14. 
"Operating Costs" means the reasonable expenditure (none of which would have been
incurred absent the Project), incurred by ABC for the implementation, management,
coordination and supervision of the Project, including: travel expenses; per diem; operation
and maintenance of office equipment; purchase, maintenance and repair of vehicles; rental of
offices; utilities; nondurable and/or consumable office materials; salaries of ABC staff
working for the Project (but excluding salaries of the Borrower's civil servants); and any other
reasonable expenditure as may be agreed by the Bank and included in the Operational Manual.
15. 
"Operational Manual" or "OM" means the manual prepared by ABC, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank, pursuant to Section I.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement which shall include, inter alia: (i) the programming and budgeting, accounting,
auditing, reporting, financial, procurement and disbursement procedures of the Project; (ii)
the organizational structure for implementation of the Project; (iii) the Project indicators
for the monitoring and evaluation of the Project; and (iv) the description of Project
activities; as the same may be amended from time to time with the Bank's prior written
consent.
17
16. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
17. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated August
3, 2016 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph
1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
18. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" or "RAP" means the resettlement action plan prepared by
ABC, acceptable to the Bank, published in the Borrower's territory on July 26, 2016 and
on the Bank's external website on May 25, 2016, containing, inter alia, a program of
actions, measures and policies for compensation of affected persons, including budget and
cost estimates, and sources of funding, together with adequate institutional, monitoring and
reporting arrangements capable of ensuring proper implementation of, and regular feedback
on compliance with its terms, as said plan may be amended from time to time with the Bank's
prior written consent.
19. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the framework prepared by ABC,
published in the Borrower's territory on July 14, 2016 and on the Bank's external website
on July 13, 2016, in form and substance acceptable to the Bank, outlining general
implementation procedures, mitigation measures and monitoring procedures in the event
of Involuntary Resettlement as a result of the design and construction of the bypass in San
Ignacio de Velasco referred to in Part A. 1 (a) of the Project, including the procedures for
the preparation and implementation of site-specific resettlement plan(s), when applicable,
as said framework may be amended from time to time with the Bank's prior written
approval.
20. 
"San Ignacio de Velasco" means the city of San Ignacio de Velasco located in the
Department of Santa Cruz.
21. 
"San Josd de Chiquitos" means the city of San Josd de Chiquitos, located in the Department
of Santa Cruz.
22. 
"San Matias" means the city of San Matias, located in the Department of Santa Cruz.
23. 
"Technical Audit" means an independent technical review of the planning, design,
construction and management of the upgrading works under Part A. I (a) of the Project.
24. 
"Training" means expenditures (other than those for consultants' services) incurred by
ABC in connection with the carrying out of training activities (such as seminars,
workshops, including the reasonable travel costs (i.e. accommodation, transportation and
per-diem, inter alia) of trainees and trainers (if applicable), training registration fees,
catering, rental of training facilities and equipment, logistics and printing services, as well
as training materials, all for the purposes of, and directly related to, the activities of the
Project.
18
Section H. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually
in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition
of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01
(a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition
of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower."
19
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and
Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
20
