OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8718-MA
Loan Agreement
(Identity and Targeting for Social Protection Project)
between
KIGDOM OF MOROCCO
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 16, 2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8718-MA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated June 16, 2017, between KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
("Borrower") 
and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE I -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million Dollars,
($100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General
Conditions.
-2-
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE Ill -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall implement the Project through the Mol in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
-3-
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that the
Social Safety Net Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived, so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to
perform any of its obligations arising pursuant to this Agreement, or to achieve the
objective of the Project.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that
the Borrower has adopted the Project Operational Manual, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Minist&re de l'Economie et des Finances
Avenue Mohammed V
Rabat
Kingdom of Morocco
Cable address: 
Facsimile:
MINFIN 
212-537-67-75-30/31
-4-
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
AGREED at Rabat, Kingdom of Morocco, as of the day and year first above
written.
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
By
Authorized Representative
Name: Mohamed Boussaid
Title: Minister of Economy and Finance
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
hrized ReOesentative
ame: 
hael Hamaide
Title: Senior Country Officer
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to expand coverage of a unique identifying number
for the Moroccan population and foreign residents, and to improve targeting of social safety
nets in the Project Area.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Desigp and Development of a National Population Register (NPR) with an Unique
Identifying Number (UIN). and Establishment of a National Identity Agency
(NIA)
I 
Acquisition of goods and provision of advisory services for the following activities
in the Project Area: (i) design and development of the NPR systems, including
acquisition of computer hardware and software; (ii) attribution of an UIN to the
Moroccan population and foreign residents, including verification of the reliability
of data and initial data uploading; (iii) technical updating of the existing
information systems which will feed the NPR, (iv) preparation of the legal
framework (laws and regulations) for the NPR- and (v) building institutional
capacity to implement the NPR.
2. 
Provision of financing through reimbursement of expenditures under Eligible
Expenditure Programs, for the attribution of an UIN to the population in the Project
Area.
3. 
Provision of financing through reimbursement of expenditures under Eligible
Expenditure Programs, for the establishment and operationalization of a NIA, the
NPR and the U[N.
Part 2: Design and Development of a Social Register (SR)
1. 
Acquisition of goods and provision of advisory services for the following activities
in the Project Area: (i) evaluation and revision of operational manuals of social
safety net programs which will use the SR as an entry point; (ii) development of
new procedures for household registration in the SR (iii) design and development
of the SR systems, including acquisition of computer hardware and software; (iv)
technical updating of existing information systems of social safety net programs
which will use the SR as an entry point; (v) carrying out data collection and
household registration; (vi) acquisition and development of hardware and software
necessary to verify and authenticate the identity of individuals in the SR; (vii)
assessment of the data quality and performance of the targeting system of the SR;
(viii) preparation of the legal framework (laws and regulations) for the SR; (ix)
preparation and implementation of communication campaigns and citizen
-6-
engagement mechanisms, including the development of an appeal and complaint
system; and (x) building institutional capacity to implement the SR.
2. 
Provision of financing through reimbursement of expenditures under Eligible
Expenditure Programs, for the establishment of the legal framework (laws and
regulations) for the SR to become a functional unique entry point for SSNs.
3. 
Provision of financing through reimbursement of expenditures under Eligible
Expenditure Programs, for the transition of RAMED, Tayssir and DAAM program
beneficiaries into the SR in the Project Area.
Part 3: Project Management Capacity Building, and Monitoring and Evaluation
1. 
Support to the PMU to implement the Project, including provision of technical
advisory services and Training, carrying out of audits for the Project and financing
of Incremental Operating Costs.
2. 
Support to the PMU to develop and implement an integrated monitoring and
evaluation system for the Project.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arraneements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall implement the Project through the Mol. The Borrower shall
ensure that the Mol implements the Project in coordination with the Ministry of
Economy and Finance (MoEF), the Ministry of Health, the MoSWSD, the
MoNEVT and the HCP as per the provisions of the inter-ministerial agreement for
the implementation of the SR dated September 16, 2016.
2. 
The 
Inter-ministerial 
Steering 
Committee 
shall 
oversee 
the 
Project's
implementation and, in particular, ensure consistency of Project activities with
sectoral policies, review and validate technical, institutional, and regulatory
proposals for the implementation of the Project, validate annual programs of
Project activities, and monitor their progress and timely implementation, and
oversee the Project's institutional communication.
3. 
The PMU shall be responsible for the overall coordination of Project activities and
of the daily management of the Project, including all fiduciary, monitoring and
reporting aspects.
4. 
No later than two (2) months after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall establish
the SR Technical Committee with terms of reference and composition satisfactory
to the Bank.
5. 
The NPR/IJN Technical Committee and the SR Technical Committee shall, for
Part I of the Project and Part 2 of the Project, respectively, report to the PMU and,
in particular, prepare the road maps for the design and implementation of the
technical activities to be carried out under the Project, elaborate technical tools for
the implementation of such activities, assure coordination and coherence of
activities to be carried out under Part I and Part 2 of the Project, respectively,
review and evaluate studies and consultancies, oversee the preparation of required
technical specifications for the implementation of all planned activities under the
Project, and execute the annual work programs and monitor their progress.
6. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the above arrangements, as further described in the
POM, are maintained throughout the implementation of the Project. In particular,
the Borrower shall maintain, throughout the implementation of the Project, the
Inter-ministerial Steering Committee, the PMU, the NPR/UIN Technical
Committee and the SR Technical Committee, in a form and with a composition
and functions, staffing, and adequate resources, all satisfactory to the Bank.
-8-
7. 
The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with the POM. The
Borrower shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provision of the
POM without prior written approval of the Bank.
8. 
No later than two (2) months after the Effective Date, the Project Management
Unit shall recruit a financial management specialist, a monitoring and evaluation
specialist, a legal specialist and a procurement specialist in compliance with the
provisions of Section II.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Safeguards
The Borrower shall ensure that all terms of reference for any technical assistance
or studies carried out under the Project are consistent with, and pay due attention
to, the Bank's Environmental and Social Policies, as well as the Borrower's own
laws relating to environment and social aspects.
D. 
Eligible Expenditures Programs under Parts 1.2, 1.3,2.2 and 23 of the Project
I. 
For each fiscal year from the Effective Date until the Closing Date, the Borrower
shall provide evidence to the Bank that each of the Eligible Expenditures Programs
receives a budgetary allocation.
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the EEPs will comply with the eligibility criteria
and procedures set forth in the Project Operational Manual.
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the EEPs will not involve any activities that could
have a negative impact on the environment and/or affected people or otherwise
trigger the application of the Bank's Environmental and Social Policies.
E. 
Verification Protocol
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out verification missions at least annually through the
IGAT or independent verification agencies that the Bank has confirmed in writing
to be acceptable, for the verification of achievement of DLRs which are set forth
in the table in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and furnish to the Bank not later than
sixty (60) calendar days after the verification of compliance of said DLRs, reports
on the results of said verification of compliance process of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
19.
2. 
Such verifications will be based on a review of the documentation available at the
Mol and the MoEF, as well as during on-site verification missions if any.
Section H. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to
the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by
such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
I. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45)
days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports
for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than six 6) months after the end of such period.
Section M. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods and Non-consulting Services. All goods and non-consulting services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I
of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
-10-
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and Ill of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, 1II, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services
1 -
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods and non-consulting services for those contracts specified
in the Procurement Plan:
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding procedures subject to the following
additional procedures:
(i) 
the bidding documents include explicitly the bid evaluation
method, award criteria and bidder qualification criteria;
(ii) 
technical, administrative and financial envelopes are opened
immediately after the bid opening session has started and prices
are read aloud;
(iii) 
the bids are evaluated on the basis of the price and any other
criteria expressed either in pass/fail terms or in monetary terms
and disclosed in the bidding document;
(iv) 
contracts are awarded to the qualified bidder who has submitted
the least-cost evaluated and substantially responsive bid as
stipulated in the bidding document; and
(v) 
standard bidding documents and bid evaluation reports found
acceptable by the Bank are used.
(b) 
Shopping; and
(c) 
Direct Contracting.
-1l-
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Least Cost Selection; (c)
Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications; (d) Single-source Selection of
consulting firms; (e) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the
Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants; and (f) Single-
source procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
I. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article I of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised
from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant
to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
-12-
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) 
financed
_ 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Eligible Expenditure 
68,000,000 
100% of amounts spent in
Programs under Parts 
compliance with DLI
1.2, 1.3, 2.2 and 2.3 of 
amounts set out in
the Project 
Schedule 4 to this
Agreement as reported
under the interim
unaudited financial report
for each withdrawal
(2) Goods, Training, 
31,750,000 
100%
Incremental Operating
Costs, non-consulting
services, and
consultants' services
for the Project other
than under Parts 1.2,
1.3, 2.2 and 2.3 of the
Project
(3) Front-end Fee 
250,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07(b) of the
General Conditions
(4) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar 
Section 2.08(c) of this
premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
100,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
I1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; or
(b) 
for payments under Category (1), unless: (i) any applicable DLR set out in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement has been met by the Borrower in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank as reported in accordance with the terms of the
Verification Protocol; and (ii) the relevant unaudited interim financial
report has been submitted by the Borrower to, and found satisfactory by
the Bank, which shall include evidence found satisfactory by the Bank,
establishing that the Borrower has spent under the EEPs an amount at least
-13-
equal to the amount associated with the relevant DLR set out in Schedule
4 to this Agreement.
2. 
If, at any time, the Bank determines that: (i) any portion of the Loan was used to
finance items improperly procured in violation of Section III of this Schedule; or
(ii) any portion of the amounts disbursed by the Bank to the Borrower under
Category (1) was: (a) made for reimbursement of expenditures which are not
eligible under the Eligible Expenditure Programs under Parts 1.2, 1.3, 2.2 and 2.3
of the Project; or (b) not supported by evidence of actual spending by the Borrower
under said Eligible Expenditure Programs and/or by evidence of satisfaction of
other criteria set forth in this Agreement or in the POM, the Borrower shall
promptly refund any such portion to the Bank as the Bank shall specify by notice
to the Borrower. The Bank may, at its own discretion, cancel such refunded
amount.
3. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2021.
-14-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Principal Payment Date 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning May 15, 2022, 
2.50%
through November 15, 2041
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
-15-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either (a) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (b) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
-16-
SCHEDULE 4
Disbursement Linked Indicators
Parts of the 
Amount
Project 
DLI 
DLR 
Allocated
(USD)
Part 1.2 
DLI No 1: 
DLR 1.1: The UIN motor
Number of 
generator for the NPR is
newborns 
operational and has been used to 
6,000,000
attributed a UIN 
attribute UINs to newborns in
at civil 
Casablanca through civil
registration in 
registration.
the Project Area 
DLR 1.2: 47,000 newborns in
the Project Area have been
attributed an UIN through the
UIN generator of the NPR and
have their UIN printed on the
birth certificates
DLR 1.3:113,000 newborns in
the Project Area have been
attributed an UIN through the
UIN generator of the NPR and 
4,000,000
have their UIN printed on the
birth certificates
DLR 1.4: 206,000 newborns in
the Project Area have been
attributed an UIN through the
UIN generator of the NPR and 
2,000,000
have their UIN printed on the
birth certificates
DLR 1.5: 266,000 newborns in
the Project Area have been
attributed an UIN through the
UIN generator of the NPR and 
1,000,000
have their UIN printed on the
birth certificates
DLI No 2: 
DLR 2.1: An UIN has been
Population (6 
attributed to 19 million
years old and 
individuals (6 years old and 
4,000,000
above) for which 
above)
an UIN has been 
DLR 2.2: An UIN has been
attributed in the 
attributed to 25 million
Project Area 
individuals (6 years old and 
2,000,000
above)
Part 1.3 
DLI No 3: NPR, 
DLR 3.1 Draft law(s) for NPR,
UIN and NIA 
UIN and NIA has/have been 
4,000,000
legally 
validated by the Inter-
-17-
Amount
Parts of the 
Rmout
Prjc 
DLI 
DLR 
Allocated
(USD)
established and 
ministerial Steering Committee
operational 
(IMSC) and transmitted to the
Government's General
Secretariat.
DLR 3.2: The Council of
Government has approved the
draft law(s) for NPR, UIN and 
6,000,000
NIA.
DLR 3.3: NIA has been
established and is operational 
4,000,000
Part 2.2 
DLI No 4: SR 
DLR 4.1: Draft law for the SR
legally 
has been validated by the IMSC
established and 
and transmitted to the 
3,000,000
operational to 
Government's General
become a 
Secretariat.
functional entry 
DLR 4.2: The Council of
point for SSNs 
Government has approved the 
5,000,000
draft law for the SR.
DLR 4.3:The law for the SR,
setting forth that the SR is the
entry point for the RAMED,
DAAM and Tayssir programs and 
3,000,000
for any new safety net programs to
be introduced by the Borrower,
has been published in the National
Gazette
Part 2-3 
DLI No 5: Share 
DLR 5.1: The questionnaire
of new 
and the proxy means test
applicants to 
formula of the SR have been
RAMED, 
validated by the IMSC after
DAAM and 
testing them on a representative 
7,000,000
Tayssir 
sample of beneficiaries of
programs 
RAMED, DAAM and Tayssir
registered in the 
programs
SR 
DLR 5.2: 40% of new
applicants to RAMED, DAAM
and Tayssir programs in a given 
5,000,000
calendar year, have been
registered in the SR.
DLR 5.3: 80% of new
applicants to RAMED, DAAM
and Tayssir programs in a given 
4,000,000
calendar year, have been
registered in the SR.
- 18 -
Parts of the 
Amount
Project 
DLI 
DLR 
Allocated
(USD)
DLR 5.4: 100% of new applicants
to RAMED, DAAM and Tayssir
programs in a given calendar year, 
3,000,000
have been registered in the SR.
TOTAL 
68,000,000
-19-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
I. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Bank's Environmental and Social Policies" means the operational environmental
and social requirements of the Bank.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
4. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
5. 
"DAAM" means Programme d'Aide Direcle aur Veuves en Situation de Pricariid
Ayant a Charge des Orphelins, the Borrower's safety net program that provides
direct cash transfers to widows in difficult socio-economic situation taking care of
orphans, established pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 2-14-791 dated
December 4, 2014, as amended at the date hereof.
6. 
"DLs" means "Disbursement-Linked Indicators", a set of indicators as specified
in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
7. 
"DLRs" means "Disbursement-Linked Results', a set of results associated with
each DLI as specified in schedule 4 to this Agreement.
8. 
"EEPs" or "Eligible Expenditures Programs" means under Parts 1.2, 1.3, 2.2 and
2.3 of the Project, a portion of the Borrower's budgetary allocation for financing
cash transfers under the DAAM and Tayssir programs.
9. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
10. 
"HCP" means Haut Commissariat au Plan, the Borrower's High Planning
Commission.
I1. 
"IGAT" means Inspection Ginirale de I'Administration Territoriale, the
inspection unit within the Mol.
- 20-
12. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the reasonable and necessary incremental
expenditures incurred by the PMU on account of Project implementation,
management and monitoring, including office supplies and utilities; office
consumables; office administration including translation, interpretation, printing
and advertising, communication costs, reasonable commercial bank charges;
reasonable and necessary transportation and travel costs of members of the PMU,
but excluding salaries of officials and employees of the Borrower's civil services.
13. 
"IMSC" or "Inter-ministerial Steering Committee" means the inter-ministerial
steering committee for the Project established by the Borrower pursuant to the
inter-ministerial agreement for the implementation of the SR, dated September 16,
2016.
14. 
"Mol" means the Borrower's Ministry of Interior, or any successor thereto.
15. 
"MoNEVT" means the Borrower's Ministry of National Education and Vocational
Training, or any successor thereto.
16. 
"MoSWSD" means the Ministry of Solidarity, Women, Family and Social
Development, or any successor-thereto
17. 
"NIA" means the Borrower's future National Identity Agency, a national agency
under the umbrella of the Mol responsible for managing, storing and assuring the
adequate use and confidentiality of the data contained in the SR, NPR and central
repository of the Borrower's civil register.
18. 
"NPR" means 
the 
Borrower's 
future National 
Population 
Register, 
a
comprehensive database of all individuals having the right to reside in the
Borrower's territory, and which will assign an UIN to each individual in such
database.
19. 
"NPR/UIN Technical Committee" means the technical committee for Part I of the
Project, established by the Borrower pursuant to the inter-ministerial agreement
dated December 1, 2016.
20. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
21. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
December 19, 2016, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
-21-
22. 
"Project Area" means the regions of Tanger-Tdtouan-Al Hoceima, I'Oriental, Fes-
Mekn6s, 
Rabat-Sald-Kenitra, 
Bni-Mellal-Khinifra, 
Casablanca-Settat,
Marrakech-Safi, Dra-Tafilalet, and Souss-Massa, and the provinces of Guelmin,
Tan-Tan and Sidi-Ifni of the Borrower.
23. 
"Project Management Unit" or "PMU" means the project management unit at the
Mol established pursuant to Decision No. 6450 dated September 8, 2016, and the
annex thereto, issued by the Mol.
24. 
"Project Operational Manual" or "POM" means the manual describing the
implementation, financial management, procurement, disbursement, monitoring
and evaluation, and reporting arrangements for the Project, including the format
for the interim unaudited financial reports and the Verification Protocol, to be
adopted by the Borrower, and referred to in paragraph 7, Section L.A of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
25. 
"RAMED" means Rigime d'Assistance Mdicale, the Borrower's regime of
medical assistance for economically deprived individuals and families, established
pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 6500 dated October 3, 2002, Decree No. 2-
08-177 dated September 29, 2008, and Order (Arrite) No. 836-08 dated September
29, 2008, all as amended at the date hereof.
26. 
"Social Safety Net Legislation" means the Borrower's Decree No. 2-14-791 dated
December 4, 2014, the Borrower's Law No. 6500 dated October 3, 2002, Decree
No. 2-08-177 dated September 29, 2008, Order (ArrIe) No. 836-08 dated
September 29, 2008, and the ministerial note No. 129 dated November 21, 2008,
all as amended at the date hereof.
27. 
"SR" means the Borrower's future Social Register, an information system used as
an entry point for entry/registration of applicants of different safety net programs
of the Borrower, to collect and cross-check socioeconomic information regarding
the beneficiaries of such programs and their household.
28. 
"SR Technical Committee" means the technical committee for Part 2 of the
Project, to be
established by the Borrower pursuant to paragraph 4, Section LA of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
29. 
"SSN" means Social Safety Net.
30. 
"Tayssir" means the Borrower's conditional cash transfer program against school
drop-out for children from poor and deprived families, established pursuant to the
ministerial note No. 129 dated November 21, 2008, as amended at the date hereof.
-22 -
31. 
"Training" means the costs of: (i) reasonable expenditures for national and
international travel, room and board and per diem expenditures incurred by trainers
and trainees and by non-consultant training facilitators in connection with training
provided under the Project; (ii) course fees; (iii) training facility rentals;
(iv) training material preparation, acquisition, reproduction, and distribution
expenses; and (v) participating in national and international workshops and
conferences.
32. 
"UIN" means Unique Identifying Number.
33. 
"Verification Protocol" means the DLR verification process as set forth in the
Project Operational Manual.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1 .
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement
(the "Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from
a date sixty (60) days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the
respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable
semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
-23-
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to
Section 3.01 with Section 3.01(a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any
prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of
a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable
upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any
Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
