OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8675-UY
Loan Agreement
(Improving the Quality of Initial and Primary Education in Uruguay Project)
between
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 22, 2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated March 22, 2017, between REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL
URUGUAY ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of forty million Dollars ($40,000,000),
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement
("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to this
Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, however, that the interest payable shall in no event be less than zero
percent (0%) per annum; and provided furthermore that, upon a Conversion of all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the
Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance
remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty
days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as
provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
-2-
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the
Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions
and the Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that the Law
No. 18.437 or any provision thereof shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such a manner so as to materially
-3-
and adversely affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Project
Implementing Entity to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that, any
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that,
the Inter-Administrative Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower
and the Project Implementing Entity in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following, namely, that the Inter-
Administrative Agreement, has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed
and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity, and
is legally binding upon the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity in
accordance with the terms of the Inter-Administrative Agreement.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas
Colonia No. 1089, Piso 3
Montevideo, Uruguay
Facsimile: 5982 1712 2688
e-mail: organismos.multilaterales(amef ub.uv
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at Montevideo, Uruguay, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
By
Authorized Repr entative
Name:
Title:______
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
(auP Iff73CO11
Title: '6 x,(-oa-
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to improve the teaching practices and the learning
environment in early and primary education, as well as the internal efficiency in primary
education, all in Full-Time Schools, and to strengthen the evaluation capacity of the
education system.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. Early Education
1. 
Provision of support to increase access to early education, through the construction
and/or rehabilitation of approximately twenty (20) classrooms in selected Full-
Time Schools for three-year old students, including the acquisition of equipment
for said Full-Time Schools.
2. 
Provision of support for: (a) the setting up of libraries (including a mobile shelf
space) and the acquisition of didactic games and toys in every selected Full-Time
School with a classroom for three year old students; (b) the scaling-up of an early-
childhood evaluation (EIT) to assess students across a number of key dimensions
such as self-awareness, awareness of the environment, social abilities, language,
communication, and motor skills; (c) the development of a local version of an EIT;
and (d) the carrying out of activities aimed at using the information produced by
the EIT referred to in (b) herein.
3. 
Provision of in-service training for early education teachers of Full-Time Schools,
through, inter alia: (a) the design of an in-service training course on early
education; and (b) the implementation of said training course.
Part 2. Primary Education
1. 
(a) Construction and/or rehabilitation of approximately twenty (20) selected
primary Full-Time Schools, including the acquisition of equipment for said Full-
Time Schools; and (b) (i) carrying out of preventive maintenance activities in
selected Full-Time Schools; and (ii) provision of technical assistance to school
management committees to manage and coordinate said preventive maintenance
activities.
2. 
Provision of technical assistance to supervisors and school principals of Full-Time
Schools, including, inter alia, the provision of training and the preparation of
guidelines on classroom management, periodic evaluations of learning, learning
planning and allocation of teacher's time.
-6-
3. 
Provision of in-service training for primary education teachers of Full-Time
Schools, through, inter alia: (a) the adjustment of existing in-service training
programs to foster modem pedagogies adapted to the special needs and bottlenecks
of the Borrower's education system; (b) the acquisition of goods required therefor;
(c) the provision of technical and operational support to CEIP's teacher training
institute.
Part 3. Transition between Primary and Secondary Education
1 .
(a) Strengthening the second cycle of primary education through the provision of
in-service training for sixth grade teachers of Full-Time Schools in providing
remedial support to students most at-risk in the transition to secondary education;
and (b) carrying out of a pilot remedial course for sixth grade at-risk students aimed
at providing them with the tools needed to succeed in their transition to secondary
education, including the carrying out of a study concerning the short-term impact
of said pilot remedial course.
2. 
Provision of support for the setting up of pilot alliances between Full-Time Schools
(providing primary education) and secondary schools, in order to support primary
education graduates sustain their accomplishments in their trajectory to secondary
education, through, inter alia: (a) the fostering of student exchanges to help
primary students gather information, align expectations and provide academic
preparation for the transition to secondary education; and (b) the carrying out of
seminars between primary education teachers of Full-Time Schools and secondary
education teachers.
Part 4. Monitoring and Evaluation System
1. 
Strengthening the evaluation capacity of the Borrower's education system,
through, inter alia: (a) the carrying out of standardized learning evaluations to
identify learning gaps and students at risk by evaluating the learning achievements
of students at the end of the second grade; (b) the enhancement of the GURI's
functioning through the provision of support for: (i) the incorporation of new data
fields in the system; and (ii) the improvement of GURI's interactive platforms'
design; (c) the design and maintenance of an early-warning system to target at risk
students with specific programs; (d) the carrying out of at least two impact
evaluations to understand the impact of key components of the Project and/or
identify promising low-cost innovations that could be easily scaled-up; (e) the
carrying out of a nationwide diagnosis on gender equality for the education sector;
and (f) the provision of technical support for the carrying out of any other studies,
evaluations and/or assessments on early and primary education activities to
develop education policies acceptable to the Bank.
2. 
Provision of support for the implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the
Project, including the provision of technical assistance to enhance the Project's
communication strategy and disseminate the impact of the Project's activities.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Inter-Administrative Agreement
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds
of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity, under a subsidiary
agreement between the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity, under terms
and conditions approved by the Bank (the "Inter-Administrative Agreement").
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the Inter-
Administrative Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive,
terminate or fail to enforce the Inter-Administrative Agreement or any of its
provisions.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure, and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to
ensure, that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Safeguards.
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to ensure that the
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Environmental and
Social Management Framework and the Resettlement Policy Framework.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to ensure that the terms
of reference for any consultancies related to the technical assistance provided
under the Project, shall be acceptable to the Bank following its review thereof and,
to that end, such terms of reference shall duly incorporate the requirement of the
Bank's Safeguard Policies then in force, as applied to the advice conveyed through
such technical assistance.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting! and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to: (a) monitor and
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports; and (b) furnish to
-8-
the Bank said Project Reports, all as provided in Section II.A.1 of the Schedule to
the Project Agreement.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to maintain a financial
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the
General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the Bank as part
of the Project Report, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project, as
provided in Section II.B.2 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to have its financial
statements audited as provided in Section II.B.3 of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.
Section III. 
Procurement
All goods, works, non-consulting services and consulting services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Section III of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised
from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant
to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
-9-
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Preventive 
3,000,000 
100% of the amount of the
Maintenance 
Loan allocated to each DLI,
Expenditures 
as set forth in Schedule 4 to
this Agreement
(2) Goods, works, 
36,900,000 
100%
consulting services,
non-consulting
services, Training and
Operating Costs under
the Project (except
under Part 2.1(b)(i) of
the Project)
(3) Front-end Fee 
100,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 
2.03 
of 
this
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
40,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed eight million Dollars
($ 8,000,000) may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or
after March 1, 2016 (but in no case more than one (1) year prior to the date
of this Agreement), for Eligible Expenditures, provided that the pertinent
obligations/conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Additional
Instructions, as applicable to each Eligible Expenditure have been
complied with in a manner acceptable to the Bank; and
(b) 
under Category (1), unless the Borrower has furnished to the Bank in
respect of any DLI upon submission by the Borrower, supporting
documentation acceptable to the Bank confirming the achievement of the
respective DLI or DLIs, as further elaborated in the Additional
Instructions.
-10-
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1(a) and 1(b) of this Section, if the
Bank is not satisfied that any DLI under Category (1) has been achieved by the
date by which the respective DLI is set to be achieved, as set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement, the Bank may at any time, and by notice to the Borrower,
decide, in its sole discretion to:
(a) 
withhold the unwithdrawn proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said DLI
(other than DL1 3) until the Bank is satisfied that said DL1 has been fully
achieved; or
(b) 
(i) reallocate all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan then allocated to
said DLI to any other DLI; and/or (ii) cancel all or a portion of the proceeds
of the Loan then allocated to said DLI.
3. 
If, at any time, the Bank determines that any portion of the amounts withdrawn by
the Borrower under Category (1) was made: (i) for ineligible expenditures; or (ii)
not in compliance with the provisions of paragraph 1(b) of this Section, the
Borrower shall promptly refund any such amount to the Bank as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. The Bank may cancel such refunded amount.
4. 
The Closing Date is May 31, 2022.
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
Without limitation to the provisions set forth in Section 5.02(b) of the General Conditions,
the Borrower shall take all necessary actions to enable the Project Implementing Entity to
comply with its obligations under the Project Agreement.
-11-
SCHEDULE3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each February 15 and August 15
Beginning February 15, 2022
through August 15, 2026 
10%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
-12-
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
-13-
SCHEDULE 4
Disbursement-Linked Indicators,
(by June 30 of each year or as otherwise indicated herein)
2018 
2019 
2020 
2021
ECD 
DLI 3:
teachers of 
60% of ECD
FTS use 
teachers (from
mobile 
a baseline of
libraries at 
30 ECD
least once a 
teachers) of
week 
FTS which
have installed
a mobile
library use
mobile
libraries at
least once a
week during
10
consecutive
months prior
to January 1,
2019
(Amount:
US$400,000)
ECD 
DLI 1: 
DLI 5: 
DLI 6:
assessment 
ECD 
60% of first 
Local ECD
results 
assessment 
grade teachers 
assessment is
inform first 
results 
of all FTS 
developed and
grade 
integrated into 
(operating as 
approved by the
teachers 
GURI's 
of January 1, 
Project
database 
2020) have 
Implementing
(Amount: 
digital access 
Entity
US$500,000) 
to students' 
(Amount
ECD 
US$600,000)
assessment
results
(Amount:
US$600,000)
-14-
ECD 
DLI 4:
teachers of 
60% of ECD
FTS apply 
teachers of all
protocols for 
FTS
at-risk 
(operating as
students 
of January 1,
2019) apply
protocols for
at-risk
students
(Amount:
US$400, 000)
ECD 
DLI 2
teachers of 
Guidelines for
FTS accredit 
ECD teaching
in-service 
practices are
training 
revised and
courses 
published by
the Project
Implementing
Entity
(Amount:
US$500, 00)
usUS$ 
800,000 
US$ 600,000 
US$600,000
1,000,000 
__S$ 
1 
1
-15-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Additional Instructions" means the instructions referred to in Section TV.A. 1 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as
of July 1, 2016.
3. 
"Bank Safeguard Policies" means the Bank's operational policies and procedures
set forth in the Bank's Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04. 4.09, 4.10,
4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37, 7.50 and 7.60, as said manual is published under
www.WorldBank.org/opmanual.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
5. 
"ECD" means early childhood development.
6. 
"CEIP" means the Project Implementing Entity's Primary Education Council
(Consejo de Educaci6n Inicialy Primaria).
7. 
"Disbursement-Linked Indicator" or "DLI" means any given indicator set forth in
Schedule 4 of this Agreement, the achievement of which is a condition for
disbursement of Loan proceeds under Category (1).
8. 
"EIT" means early-childhood evaluation.
9. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" means the Borrower's
framework, dated October 2016, acceptable to the Bank, published in the Project
Implementing Entity's website on October 7, 2016 and on the Bank's website on
October 7, 2016, and included in the Operational Manual, which sets forth, inter
alia: (a) the applicable institutional and regulatory environmental framework
governing the Project; (b) the guidelines for carrying out the environmental/social
screenings/assessments and the preparation and implementation of environmental
management plans when applicable; and (c) the procedures to mitigate, prevent
and manage environmental and social impacts associated with the carrying out of
Project activities, as said framework may be amended from time to time with the
prior agreement of the Bank.
10. 
"Full-Time School" or "FTS" means a preschool/primary school in the territory of
the Borrower and within the administrative jurisdiction of the Project
-16-
Implementing Entity that operates in seven and a half hour shifts on a daily basis;
and "Full-Time Schools" means any Full-Time School.
11. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
12. 
"GURI" means the Project Implementing Entity's information and registries
unified management system (Sistema de Gerenciamiento Unificado de Registros
e Informaci6n).
13. 
"Inter-Administrative Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section
I.A. 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time with the agreement of the Bank, and such term includes all schedules to said
Inter-Administrative Agreement.
14. 
"Law No. 18.437" means Ley No. 18.437, General Law of Education (Ley General
de Educaci6n) of the Borrower, dated December 12, 2008, published in the official
gazette (Diario Oficial) on January 16, 2009; as such law has been amended to the
date of this Agreement.
15. 
"Operating Costs" means the reasonable expenditures (other than consulting
services) incurred by the Project Implementing Entity, the PCU, the Verification
Entity or any Full-Time School in connection with the implementation of the
Project including, inter alia: rental and maintenance of equipment, vehicles and
facilities, rental of office facilities, incremental salaries of the Verification Entity's
staff, office utilities, supplies and materials, and domestic travel, which
expenditures would not have been incurred absent the Project.
16. 
"Operational Manual" means the Project Implementing Entity's manual dated
November 1, 2016 acceptable to the Bank and referred to in Section I.A.1 of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement, as said manual may be amended from time to
time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
17. 
"PCU" means the Project coordination unit established in the Project
Implementing Entity, pursuant to the Project Implementing Entity's Resolution
No. 57 (February 2, 1994), and ratified through Resolution No. 35 (October 27,
1998) and Resolution No. 40 (December 27, 2001); and referred to in Section
1.A.3(a) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
18. 
"Preventive Maintenance Expenditures" means expenditures for preventive
maintenance of Full-Time School's facilities, including minor civil works, goods
and Operating Costs under Part 2.1(b)(i) of the Project, which schools meet the
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual.
-17-
19. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
November 1, 2016 and provided for under Section IV of the Procurement
Regulations, as the same may be updated from time to time in agreement with the
Bank.
20. 
"Procurement Regulations" means the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for
Borrowers under Investment Project Financing", dated July 1, 2016.
21. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means the Borrower's national administration of
public education (Administracidn Nacional de Educacidn P blica), a legal entity
established pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 15.739 of March 28, 1985.
22. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" means the Borrower's framework, dated
September 2016, acceptable to the Bank, published in the Project Implementing
Entity's website on October 7, 2016 and on the Bank's website on October 7, 2016,
and included in the Operational Manual, outlining general implementation
procedures, mitigation measures and monitoring procedures for Resettlement
under the Project, including the procedures for preparation and implementation of
resettlement action plans, when applicable, as said framework may be amended
from time to time with the Bank's prior written approval.
23. 
"Training" 
means the reasonable 
expenditures 
incurred 
by the Project
Implementing Entity or the PCU for the carrying out of training activities under
the Project, including, inter alia, reasonable costs of travel, subsistence, rental of
training facilities, per diem for trainers and trainees, registration fees and training
materials.
24. 
"Verification Entity" means Instituto Nacional de Evaluaci6n Educativa (INEED)
or any other public or private entity selected and/or hired in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
25. 
"Verification Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.A.4(a) of
the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
-18-
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. 
The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any
prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of
-19-
a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable
upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any
Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
