OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8753-IN
Loan Agreement
(Himachal Pradesh Public Financial Management Capacity Building Program)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
MN 
Sj 
,2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8753-IN
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
l3(1 
, 2017, between INDIA ("Borrower") and
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT
("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement.
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of thirty-six million Dollars,
(US$36,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the program described in Schedule I to
this Agreement ("Program").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall
be deposited by the Bank into an account specified by the Borrower and acceptable
to the Bank
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, however, that the interest payable shall in no event be less than
zero percent (0%) per annum; and provided furthermore that, upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest
payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be
determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General
Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan
Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of
thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as
provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
-2-
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are August 15, and February 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; and (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.09. 
a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure
Limit (as said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b) (ii) and (b)(iii) of
this Section), the Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of
one half of one percent (0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess
Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (bXi) of this Section) for
each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if any)
shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set
forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during
which the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit,
the product of: (A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the
ratio of all (or, if the Bank so determines, a portion) of the Loan
to the aggregate amount of all (or the equivalent portions) of the
loans made by the Bank to the Borrower and to other borrowers
guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an exposure
surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined from
time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the
Bank's financial exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded,
would subject the Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined
from time to time by the Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total
financial exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by
the Bank.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Program. To this
end, the Borrower shall ensure that the State of Himachal Pradesh carries out the
Program in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions
and the Program Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Program is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
-4-
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower's
Representative is any of the following officials, acting severally: the Secretary, or
the Additional Secretary, or the Joint Secretary, or any Director, Deputy Secretary,
or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of
Finance of the Borrower.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Secretary
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
Government of India
North Block
New Delhi 110001, India
Facsimile:
+91 (11) 23094075
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at MEW 
IH 
,India, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By
Authorized Representative
Name:
Title: 
)b th)T
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
JUNk 
*
Title: 
Cou AYrA
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Description
The objective of the Program is to improve the efficiency of public expenditure
management and tax administration in Himachal Pradesh.
The Program consists of the following activities:
1. 
Results Area 1: Improving Efficiency of the Finance Department (FD) in an
enhanced control environment
1.1. 
Strengthening Treasury functioning and implementing second generation
Treasury/Integrated Financial Management Information System (IFMIS)
reforms
Supporting activities include: (i) improving Treasury infrastructure through replacement
of obsolete hardware and construction/upgrading of its own buildings for about 20 selected
sub-treasuries; (ii) carrying out capacity building activities on a range of financial
management functions including new Treasury applications (inter alia: conducting training
needs analysis, training of trainers program, and rolling out the training across the State)
for all Treasury officials, DDOs staff, Accountant General office, banks and other stake
holders; (iii) setting up Facilitation Centers; (iv) providing a permanent IT team for
software support; (v) preparing user manuals for all Treasury applications and training
materials for DDOs and Treasury; (vi) developing a security policy and risk management
framework for DoTA and training for its implementation; and (vii) shifting the handling of
public works to Treasury mode.
1.2. 
Strengthening PFM reforms architecture
Supporting activities include: (i) developing a policy note on revenue and expenditure
management; (ii) strengthening fund management (through, inter alia: (a) carrying out a
study on fund management; (b) developing a fund planning module in IFMIS; and
(c) developing software to automate the manual function); (iii) strengthening debt
management (through, inter alia: (a) carrying out a debt sustainability analysis;
(b) conducting a debt management performance assessment using the DeMPA tool;
(c) developing a roadmap for a study of the current debt management systems in Himachal
Pradesh's government; and (d) developing a system/software for management of debt).
1.3. 
Establishing/Strengthening enabling IT systems and support
Supporting activities include financial support for the Himachal State Wide Area Network
(HISWAN) including the costs of hardware and software, licenses, operation and
maintenance, and the provision of additional connectivity to over 1000 government offices
and citizens on 24x7 basis.
-7-
2. 
Results Area 2: Increasing efficiency and performance through better
Contract Management
2.1. 
Establishing and Integrated Contract Management System (CMS)
Supporting activities include: (i) implementation of CMS covering tendering, works
execution, and works accounting; (ii) the enhancement of the CMS software, its roll-out
across all the divisions and the head office of the Irrigation and Public Health Department
(IPH); and (iii) procurement of hardware and connectivity required for implementation and
integration with the e-procurement system, and capacity building of the intended users.
2.2. 
Roll-out of the e-Procurement in all government departments
Supporting activities include: (i) enhancing the e-procurement application and rolling it out
in over 2000 offices; (ii) setting up and operating a helpdesk; (iii) providing the appropriate
central and decentralized training for departmental officials; and (iv) procurement of
essential hardware required for the software's operation.
3. 
Results Area 3: Unlocking revenue potential through modernization of the
Excise and Taxation Department (ETD)
3.1. 
Diagnostic of the Institutional Framework and Revenue Administration
Supporting activities will include: (i) assessment of the existing institutional and
managerial set up in ETD and the development of a roadmap for enhanced institutional
framework for revenue administration; (ii) conducting a Training Needs Analysis (TNA);
(iii) developing a medium-term action plan, a formal training plan and conducting capacity
building pilots; and (iv) developing a communications strategy to facilitate the introduction
of GST for field level department staff, trade bodies, tax counselors and other stakeholders.
3.2. 
Strengthening Analytical skills and Business Intelligence (BI) Capabilities
Supporting activities will include: (i) improving the existing MIS and systems within the
department; (ii) carrying out a survey of best practices for MIS reporting; (iii) developing
protocols for automatic sharing of information across tax office jurisdictions; and
(iv) establishing an Economic Intelligence Unit (EIU) to strengthen tax analysis
capabilities within ETD.
3.3. 
e-Governance in the Excise Function
Supporting activities will include: (i) designing a comprehensive e-Governance solution
for excise administration; (ii) carrying out an "as-is assessment" of processes; (iii) carrying
out process reengineering and integration of the excise administration processes with
systems of the Himachal Pradesh Beverages Limited (HPBL); and (iv) replacing obsolete
IT hardware in the ETD offices.
-8-
3.4. 
Independent Third Party Audit
Conducting performance and security audits and operational reviews of existing software
through an independent agent to identify and mitigate risks.
3.5. 
Support for addressing backlog of VAT and CST assessments
Supporting activities will include: (i) financial support for the hiring of personnel to assist
the departmental 
officers in clearing the pending VAT and CST assessments;
(ii) undertaking domestic study tours; and (iii) participating in workshops for exchange of
ideas and learning from good practices in other states.
4. 
Program Management
Provision of support for, inter alia: (i) operational costs incurred in connection with
carrying out of the Program including salaries of staff; (ii) outstation travel, local travel,
office space, and per diem; (iii) financial audit, internal audit, procurement post review,
and independent verification by an IVA; and (iv) consultancy for management and
Monitoring & Evaluation.
-9-
SCHEDULE2
Program Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arraneements
A. 
Program Fiduciary, Environmental and Social Systems
Without limitation on the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the
Borrower shall cause Himachal Pradesh to carry out the Program, in accordance
with financial management, 
procurement and environmental 
and social
management systems acceptable to the Bank ("Program Fiduciary, Environmental
and Social Systems") including those set out in the ESSA, the Program Manual,
and Program Action Plan which are designed to ensure that:
1. 
the Loan proceeds are used for their intended purposes, with due attention to the
principles ofeconomy, efficiency, effectiveness, transparency, and accountability;
and
2. 
the actual and potential adverse environmental and social impacts of the Program
are identified, avoided, minimized, or mitigated, as the case may be, all through an
informed decision-making process.
In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of the ESSA, the Program
Manual and/or the Program Action Plan and those of this Agreement, this
Agreement shall govern.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
Without limitation upon the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
cause Himachal Pradesh to ensure that the Program is carried out in accordance
with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Other Program Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
1. 
Without limitation on the generality of Part A ofthis Section 1, the Borrower
shall ensure that Himachal Pradesh:
(a) 
shall carry out the Program in accordance with the institutional and
administrative arrangements set forth in the ESSA, the Program
Agreement, the Program Manual, and the Program Action Plan;
(b) 
shall not, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing, amend or
waive any of such arrangements if, in the opinion of the Bank, such
amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the Program's
implementation or the achievement of the objectives thereof;
- 10 -
(c) 
shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, the
implementation of the Program in accordance with the ESSA, the Program
Manual and the Program Action Plan; and
(d) 
shall maintain at all times during Program implementation a Program
Steering Committee (PSC) 
to 
provide strategic 
leadership 
and
interdepartmental coordination for Program implementation.
2. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Program, the Borrower shall make the proceeds
of the Loan available to Himachal Pradesh in accordance with the Borrower's
standard arrangements for developmental assistance to the States of India.
3. 
Notwithstanding paragraph 3 above, in the event that any provision of this
Agreement, including the instructions that the Bank shall have specified by notice
to the Borrower pursuant to Section IV.A.I of this Schedule, were to be found
inconsistent with the Borrower's standard arrangements for development
assistance to the States of India, the provisions of this Agreement and related
instructions shall govern.
4. 
The Borrower shall protect its own interests and the interests of the Bank to
accomplish the purpose of the Program.
Section II. 
Excluded Activities
The Borrower shall ensure that the Program excludes any activities which:
(a) 
in the opinion of the Bank, are likely to have significant adverse impacts
that are sensitive, diverse, or unprecedented on the environment and/or
affected people; or
(b) 
involve the procurement of: (1) works, estimated to cost fifty million
United States Dollars (USD 50,000,000) equivalent or more per contract;
(2) goods, estimated to cost thirty million United States Dollars (USD
30,000,000) equivalent or more per contract; (3) non-consulting services,
estimated to cost twenty million United States Dollars (USD 20,000,000)
equivalent or more per contract; or (4) consultants' services, estimated to
cost fifteen million United States Dollars (USD 15,000,000) equivalent or
more per contract.
-ll-
Section Ill. 
Program Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation; Audits
A. 
Program Reports
The Borrower shall cause Himachal Pradesh to monitor and evaluate the
performance of the Program and prepare Program Reports in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators
agreed with the Bank. Each Program Report shall cover the period of one calendar
semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one month after the end
of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Verification Process
The Borrower shall cause Himachal Pradesh:
(a) 
to undertake an independent verification process, in accordance with terms
of reference agreed with the Bank, for the fulfillment of the Disbursement
Linked Results as measured against specific indicators ("Disbursement
Linked Indicators" or "DLIs") all as set out in the table in paragraph A.2
of Section IV of this Schedule 2 and the Annex to this Schedule 2; and
(b) 
to furnish to the Bank corresponding verification reports, in form and
substance agreed with the Bank.
C. 
Program Financial Audits
Without limitation on the generality of Section L.A of this Schedule 2 and Section
5.09 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall have the Financial Statements
audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General
Conditions. Unless otherwise agreed with the Bank, each audit of the Financial
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower commencing
with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal was made under the Loan. The
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than nine months after the end of such period.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Financing Proceeds
A. 
General
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank may specify from time to time by notice to the Borrower
to: (a) pay the Front-end Fee; (b) pay each Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar
premium; and (c) finance the results ("Disbursement Linked Results" or "DLRs")
achieved by the Program Implementing Entity, as measured against specific
indicators ("Disbursement Linked Indicators" or "DLIs"); all as set forth in the
table in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
- 12-
2. 
The following table specifies each category of withdrawal of the proceeds of the
Loan (including the Disbursement Linked Indicators as applicable) ("Category").
The actual amounts authorized for disbursement (Allocated Amount) and/or the
formula for their determination upon the achievement of an individual DLR for
any given DLI financed under a Category, are set forth in the Annex to this
Schedule 2:
Category (including Disbursement Linked 
Amount of the Loan
Indicator as applicable) 
Allocated
(expressed in USD)
(1) DLI # 1: Electronic interface of IFMIS 
US$ 8,000,000
implemented in all departments
(2) DLI # 2: Internal controls of the FD 
US$ 5,000,000
strengthened
(3) DLI # 3: Increased transparency and 
USS 3,000,000
citizen engagement
(4) DLI # 4: Increased value of transactions 
USS 5,000,000
processed through the e-Procurement system
(5) DLI # 5: CMS in IPH Department 
US$ 3,910,000
implemented
(6) DLI # 6: Backlog of pending VAT/ CST 
US$ 4,000,000
assessments reduced
(7) DLI # 7: Institutional performance of the 
US$ 3,000,000
ETD improved
(8) DLI # 8: e-Governance application for 
US$ 4,000,000
excise function implemented
(9) Front End Fee 
US$ 90,000
(10) Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar premium 
0
TOTAL AMOUNT 
US$ 36,000,000
- 13 -
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for any DLI under Category (1) to (8), until and unless the Borrower
has furnished evidence satisfactory to the Bank that said DLls have been
achieved.
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.1 of this Section, the Borrower may
withdraw: (i) an amount not to exceed USS 7,200,000 as an advance; provided,
however, that if the DLIs in the opinion of the Bank, are not achieved (or only
partially achieved) by the Closing Date, the Borrower shall refund such advance
to the Bank promptly upon notice thereof by the Bank. Except as otherwise agreed
with the Borrower, the Bank shall cancel the amount so refunded. Any further
withdrawals requested as an advance under any Category shall be permitted only
on such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.1 of this Section, if any of the DLRs
under Categories(l) to (8) have not been achieved by the date by which said DLR
is set to be achieved, the Bank after discussions with the Borrower and Himachal
Pradesh, may, by notice to the Borrower and Himachal Pradesh: (a) authorize the
withdrawal of such lesser amount of the unwithdrawn proceeds of the Loan then
allocated to said Category which, in the opinion of the Bank, corresponds to the
extent of achievement of said DLR; (b) reallocate all or a portion of the proceeds
of the Loan then allocated to said DLR to any other DLR; and/or (c) cancel all or
a portion of the proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said category.
4. 
Unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, for any subsequent DLR in the event
that: (i) a reversal of a previous DLR has occurred in a manner that would, in the
opinion of the Bank, adversely affect the achievement of the objectives of the
Program; and (ii) said previous DLR has already been vetted by the IVA(s) using
the Verification Protocol agreed with the Bank, and for which the corresponding
disbursements have been already made by the Bank. The Borrower shall refund
the disbursements already made by the Bank for said previous DLR promptly upon
notice thereof by the Bank.
5. 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2022.
6. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section IV, if at any time after
the Closing Date the Borrower has failed to provide evidence satisfactory to the
Bank that the Withdrawn Loan Balance does not exceed the total amount of
Program Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank,
refund to the Bank such excess amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance. The Bank
shall cancel the refunded amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance.
Annex to Schedule 2
Disbursement-Linked Indicators, Disbursement-Linked Results and Allocated Amounts Applicable to the Program
DISBURSEMENT-LINKED RESULTS*
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO OE 
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE 
RS1 I TS TO BOF
DISBuRSEmENT-LINKED 
ACHIEVED IN 
ACHIEVED IN FY20119 
ACHIEVED IN FYI9/20 
ACHIEVED IN 
A4 Hit1 
IN
INDICATORS 
FY2017/l8 (YEAR 1) 
(YEAR 2) 
(YEAR 3) 
FY2020121(YEAR 4) 
F12021122(l EAR 5)
1)LI 1: Electronic 
Rollout to 30% 
Rollout to 65% DDOs 
Rollout to 100% 
Online submission of
interface of IFMIS 
DDOs 
including all DDOs of 
DDOs including all 
monthly accounts by
implemented in all 
any two LoC 
DDOs of all three 
treasuries to the AG
departments' 
departments 
LoC departments
AllocatedAmnounts 
US$2.0 million 
US$2.0 million 
US$2.0 million 
US$2.0 million
US S 8.0 mifllon
DLI 2: Internal controls 
Revised treasury 
Budget preparation 
Commitment Control 
Interface with RBI's 
Variance between
of the FD strengthened' 
rules, manuals (for 
process automated and 
and Debt 
e-Kuber operational 
originally approved
DDOs, treasuries 
rolled out to cover 
Management Modules 
and biometric 
budget to
staff) adopted and 
100% of the 
implemented 
verification system 
expenditure outturns
made operational 
plan/scheme budget 
for all IFMIS users 
of six large
implemented' 
departments reduced
to 15%
AllocatedAmounts 
USS1.0 million 
USS1.0 million 
US$1.0 million 
USS1.0 million 
US$1.0 million
US 5 5.0 million
'"Roll-out to DDOs" is defined as: (a) extending of electronic interface for payment processing to each DDO; and (b) at least two staff of each DDO given
I-day training on the IFMIS. There shall be a Government order covering the electronic submission by DDOs with a cut-offdate. Specific locations (as
notified through a Government order) are affected by climatic conditions or poor connectivity; coverage would be 100% after excluding these locations.
On-line submission of monthly accounts to the Auditor General shall start for the offices where electronic interface for IFMIS has been rolled out.
2 Flexibility in reallocation of budgets may be retained for LoC departments.
' 4 Government order will be issued to make the following mandatory: revised Treasury rules; commitment control system; debt management system; and
budget management system. There shall be full, real time interface between IFMIS; public financial management system; debt management system; and
budget management system.
An operational interface with RBI's e-Kuber includes full electronic exchange of data and a reconciliation functionality.
- 15 -
DISBURSEMENT-LINXED RESULTS*
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE
DISBURSEMxNT-LINKED 
ACHIEVED IN 
ACHIEvED IN FY2018/19 
ACHIEVED IN FY19120 
ACHIEVED IN 
ACHIEVED IN
INDICATORS 
FY2017/18 (YEAR 1) 
(YEAR 2) 
(YEAR 3) 
FY2020121(YEAR 4) 
FY2021/22(YEAR 5)
DLI 3: Increased
transparency and citizen
engagement
feeba. 
1 W 
I: 
opprtniie tall 
s
AllocatedAmounts 
US$1.0 million 
US$1.0 million
flS S 3.0 mIIon
DLI 4: Increased value 
Increase of 30% 
Increase of 60% over 
Increase of 90%
of transactions 
over baseline' 
baseline ' 
over baseline,"0
processed through the e- 
including at least 20
Pt ocurement system' 
departments
AltocatedAmounts 
USS1.5 million 
US$1.5 million 
US$2.0 million
(1 5. 0. millionL.!, 
.
"Better disclosure" means inter-year budget and expenditure reports/analysis (semi-annually on FD website); stakeholders' consultations through
workshops (at least three each year); accepting off-line feedback on the budget and capacity building for citizens' budget literacy.
6 "Large IPH contract" means a contract involving procurement of works, goods and/or services costing above INR I million.
IProcessing through the e-Procurement system includes usage of all modules of the e-Procurement software, namely tender creation, tender publication, bid
submission, tender opening, negotiations and award of contract. .
For all procurement contracts with a value above INR 2 million, to be prescribed through a Government order.
For all procurement contracts with a value above INR I million, to be prescribed through a Government order.
o For all procurement contracts with a value above INR 500,000, to be prescribed through a Government order.
- 16-
DISBURSEMENT-LINKED RESULTS*
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE
DISBURSEMENT-LINKED 
ACHIEVED IN 
ACHIEVED IN FY2018/19 
ACHIEVED IN FYI9120 
Acunvrn IN 
Acnr'. o 
IN
INDICATORS 
FY2017/18 (YEAR 1) 
(YEAR 2) 
(YEAR 3) 
F1*2020/2](YEAR4) 
FY2021/22(YEARS)
DLI 5: CMS in IPH 
CMS customized to 
Implemented in 60% 
Implemented in 100%
Department 
all needs of IPH and 
divisions 
divisions
implemented" 
implemented in 25%
divisions
Allocated Amounts 
USS1.0 million 
US$1.0 million 
US$1.91 million
US$ 3.91 million
DLI 6: Backlog 2 of 
Backlog reduced by 
Backlog reduced by 
Backlog reduced by 
Backlog reduced by
pending VAT/ CST 
20% over baseline 
50% over baseline and 
70% over baseline 
100% over baseline
assessments reducedn 
and 75% of in-year 
80% of in-year 
and 85% of in-year 
and 90% of in-year
assessments 
assessments completed 
assessments 
assessments
completed within I 
within I year of return 
completed within I 
completed within I
year of return filing 
filing 
year of return filing 
year of return filing
AllocatedAn,ouSls.c 
million 
US$1.0 million 
US$1.0 million 
USS.0 million
USS 4.0 mP
""Implemented" means: (a) full usage of all 14 modules of CMS at head office and in the field; (b) all transactions at divisions and sub-divisions; (c)
discontinuation of manual transactions/ record keeping; and (d) submission of monthly accounts to the accountant general. A Government order shall be
issued in Year 1, stating that all works contracts in Himachal Pradesh above INR I million in value shall be managed using a contract management software.
Specific locations (as notified through a Government order) are affected by climatic conditions or poor connectivity; coverage would be 100% after.
excluding these locations.
1"Backlog" shall include cases of 2015-16 till date of GST implementation and shall exclude assessments when the matter is sub-judice.
'~Sample for in-year assessments shall follow a risk based approach with 750//800//851//90% of VAT/CST assessments selected completed within I year of
return filing. The balance shall be completed within 2 years of return filing. This shall be issued in form of a Government order.
- 17-
DISBURSEMENT-LINKED RESULTS*
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE 
I st IN 
TO 
o B
DISBURSEMENT-LINKED 
ACHIEVED IN 
ACHIEVED IN FY2018/19 
ACHiEVEDIN FY19120 
ACHIEVED IN 
A( 1iFi %ED IN
INDICATORS 
FY2017/18 (YEAR 1) 
(YEAR 2) 
(YEAR 3) 
FY2020/21(Y.AR 4) 
F12021/22(l EAN 5)
DLI 7: Institutional 
EIU functionally 
Formal service tax 
Audit system
performance of the ETD 
integrated within the 
specialization created 
strengthened'
6
improved 
ETD1
4  
in the ETD"
Allocated Amounts 
US$1.0 million 
US$1.0 million 
US$1.0 million
USS 3.0 million
DLI 8: e-Governance 
FRS and System 
Systems Integrator (SI) 
Excise c-Governance 
Excise e-Governance
application for excise 
Requirement 
appointed; solution 
system rolled out in 
system rolled out in
function" 
Specifications 
design (user 
80% of the offices 
100 % ofthe offices
implemented" 
(SRS) developed for 
acceptance testing
core excise function; 
UAT) approved and
full rollout of the 
rolled out in 25%
HPBL software 
offices
AllocatedAmounts 
US$ 1.0 million 
US$1.0 million 
US$1.0 million 
US$1.0 million
US 4.0 milion
*Note: DLI results are not time-bound; the Fiscal Years in which they are expected to be achieved as per this schedule are for indicative purposes. These
DLI results can accordingly be met up and until the Closing Date.
' Integration of EIU functionality shall be evidenced by: (i) EIU created with positions such as excise and taxation officers, statistician, data analyst etc.
reporting to the Commissioner or Additional Commissioner; (ii) training and handholding provided to a select officers; and (iv) production of analytic
reports on tax revenue risk.
" Service tax specialization shall be evidenced by: (i) a senior officer responsible for administering service tax be assigned; (ii) an adviser to handhold the
department in service tax assessments be appointed for two years; and (iii) select staff be trained in service taxation.
"I Strengthened audit system shall be evidenced by: (i) specialized function; (ii) staff complement; (iii) audit manual; (iv) audit strategy and plan; and (v)
reports on the outcome from previous year's audit plan.
' E-Governance application for excise function will include full linkages with the HPBL software.
i Rollout includes issuance of at least 90% transport permits through the e-Governance system and discontinuation of manual processes. Specific locations
(as notified through a Government order) are affected by climatic conditions or poor connectivity; coverage would be 100% after excluding these locations.
Rollout should include all modules of the Excise e-governance software to all district offices and check-posts and have clear service standards in terms of
'time'. Software to include transport permits, excise licenses, registration of labels, permits for hospitals, scanning of QR codes. Further all collections
should be electronic and on-line.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each August 15 and February 15,
Beginning August 15, 2022
through August 15, 2035
On February 15, 2036 
3.61 %
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
- 19-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of 
such
sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the
adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
-20-
APPENDIX
Section 1. Definitions
I. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the Bank's "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Program-for-Results Financing" dated
February 1, 2012, and revised on July 10, 2015.
2. 
"BI" means business intelligence.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
4. 
"CMS" means contract management systems.
5. 
"CST" means Central Sales Tax, a tax on sales of goods levied by the Central
Government of India, applicable only in the case of inter-state sales and not on
sales made within the state or import/export of sales.
6. 
"DDOs" mean the drawing and disbursing officers of the Himachal Pradesh's
Finance Department.
7. 
"DeMPA" means Debt Management Performance Assessment
8. 
"Disbursement Linked Indicator" or "DLI" means in respect of a given Category,
the indicator related to said Category as set forth in the tables in Section IVA.2 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
9. 
"Disbursement Linked Result" or "DLR" means in respect of a given Category,
the result under said Category as set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule
2 to this Agreement, on the basis of the achievement of which, the amount of the
Loan allocated to said result may be withdrawn in accordance with the provisions
of said Section IV.
10. 
"DoTA" means the Himachal Pradesh's Directorate of Treasuries and Accounts,
under the Finance Department, responsible for all government financial
transactions inter alia collection of government receipts, making payments on
behalf of the state, and compilation of accounts for rendition to the state's
Accountant General (AG).
11. 
"ElU" or "Economic Intelligence Unit" means the unit to be establish under
Himachal Pradesh's ETD to strengthen its tax analytics capabilities.
12. 
"e-Kuber" means the core banking solution of RBI which provides a single current
account for each bank across the country with decentralized access to this account
using safe portal based services.
-21-
13. 
"ESSA" means the Environmental and Social Systems Assessment, dated
February 7, 2017, and applicable to the Program setting forth the description of the
Program's activities, assessing the Project Implementing Entity's environmental
and social management systems, detailing the Program's environmental and social
benefits, risks and impacts, and recommending remedial measures to strengthen
the social and environmental systems performance.
14.. 
"ETD" means Himachal Pradesh's Excise and Taxation Department.
15. 
"GoHP" means Government of Himachal Pradesh.
16. 
"GST" means the "Goods and Services Tax", a comprehensive indirect tax on
manufacture, sale and consumption of goods and services throughout the territory
of the Borrower, to replace taxes levied by the central and state governments.
17. 
"Facilitation Centers" mean the centers to be established for purposes of on line
bill generation by DDOs with connectivity and hardware issues.
18. 
"FD" means Himachal Pradesh's Finance Department.
19. 
"FRS" means functional requirement specifications.
20. 
"HISWAN" means Himachal State Wide Area Network.
21. 
"HPBL" means Himachal Pradesh Beverages Limited.
22. 
"IEFMIS" means Integrated Financial Management Information System.
23. 
"IPH" means Himachal Pradesh's Irrigation and Public Health Department
24. 
"IT" means information technology.
25. 
"IVA" means an independent verification agency.
26. 
"INR" means Indian Rupees, the Borrower's currency.
27. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
28. 
"LoC" means Letter of Credit.
29. 
"MIS" means management information systems.
30. 
"PFM" means Public Financial Management.
- 22 -
31. 
"Program Action Plan" means the Himachal Pradesh's plan dated April 6, 2017,
and referred to in Section I.A. and I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and Sections
L.A. and I.C. of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, as may be amended from
time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
32. 
"Program Implementing Entity" means the Borrower's state of Himachal Pradesh.
33. 
"Program Manual" means the manual adopted by Himachal Pradesh on April 5,
2017 acceptable to the Bank, setting out, inter-alia: Program activities, results,
budget and program expenditures, environmental, social, financial management,
and procurement arrangements for Program implementation and monitoring, and
reporting, and; as the same may be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower and the Bank.
34. 
"PSC" means the Program Steering Committee created under the leadership of
Himachal Pradesh's Additional Chief Secretary, for purposes of providing
strategic 
leadership 
and 
interdepartmental 
coordination 
for 
Program
implementation.
35. 
"RBI" or "Reserve Bank of India" means the Borrower's central bank.
36. 
"Treasury" means Himachal Pradesh's treasury.
37. 
"VAT" means the value added tax.
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
Wherever used throughout the General Conditions, the term "the Project" is
modified to read "the Program", the term "the Project Agreement" is modified to
read "the Program Agreement", the term "Project Implementing Entity" is
modified to read "the Program Implementing Entity", the term "Project Report" is
modified to read "Program Report"; and the term "Eligible Expenditures" is
modified to read "Program Expenditures".
2. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the amendments set forth below.
3. 
Section 2.02, Special Commitment by the Bank, is deleted in its entirety, and the
subsequent Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
4. 
In Section 2.02 (originally numbered as Section 2.03), the heading "Applications
for Withdrawal or for Special Commitment" is replaced with "Applications for
Withdrawal", and the phrase "or to request the Bank to enter into a Special
Commitment" is deleted.
-23 -
5. 
The section originally numbered as Section 2.04, Designated Accounts is deleted
in its entirety, and the subsequent Sections in Article 11 are renumbered
accordingly.
6. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (originally numbered as Section 2.05), Eligible
Expenditures (renamed "Program Expenditures" in accordance with paragraph I
of this Section Il), is modified to read: "(a) the payment is for the financing of the
reasonable cost of expenditures required for the Program and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of the Legal
Agreements;".
7. 
The last sentence of Section 2.04 (originally numbered as Section 2.06), Financing
Taxes, is modified to read: "To that end, if the Bank at any time determines that
the amount of any such Tax is excessive, or that such Tax is discriminatory or
otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, exclude such
amount or such Tax from the Program Expenditures to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, as required to ensure consistency with such policy of the
Bank."
8. 
Section 2.06 (originally numbered as Section 2.08), Reallocation, is modified to
read:
"Notwithstanding any allocation of an amount of the Loan to a withdrawal
category under the Loan Agreement, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
reallocate any other amount of the Loan to such category if the Bank reasonably
determines at any time that such reallocation is appropriate for the purposes of the
Program.
9. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. 
The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date"
10. 
Section 7.01, Cancellation by the Borrower, is modified to read: "The Borrower
may, by notice to the Bank, cancel any amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance."
-24 -
11. 
Paragraph 
(d) 
of Section 
7.03, 
Cancellation 
by 
the Bank, entitled
"Misprocurement", is deleted, and subsequent 
paragraphs 
are relettered
accordingly.
12. 
Section 7.04, Amounts Subject to Special Commitment not Affected by
Cancellation or Suspension by the Bank, is deleted in its entirety, and subsequent
Sections in Article VII and references to such Sections are renumbered
accordingly.
13. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above.
14. 
A new paragraph 19 is inserted with the following definition of "Commitment
Charge", and the remaining paragraphs are renumbered accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
15. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
16. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount ofthe Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any
prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of
a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable
upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any
Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
17. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
18. 
Renumbered paragraph 88 (originally paragraph 87) of the Appendix, setting forth
the definition of "Special Commitment" is deleted in its entirety, and all
subsequent paragraphs are renumbered accordingly.
