OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8787-DO
Loan Agreement
(Disaster Risk Management Development Policy Loan with a Deferred Drawdown
Option for Catastrophe Risks)
between
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
("Borrower") 
and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing financing in support of the
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).
Whereas (A) the Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (i)
the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are
described in Section I.A of Schedule I to this Agreement; and (ii) the Borrower's
maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework; and
(B) the financing mentioned herein will be available to provide timely liquidity to the
Borrower upon the declaration of a State of Emergency (Estado de Emergencia) to respond
to an imminent or occurring natural catastrophe, and in accordance with the terms of this
Agreement.
The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I- 
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of one hundred and fifty
million United States Dollars ($150,000,000), as such amount may be converted
from time to time through a Currency Conversion (which has been requested by
the Borrower and accepted by the Bank in accordance with the pertinent provisions
set forth in Article IV of the General Conditions) ("Loan").
2.02. 
The Front-end Fee is one half of one percent (0.50%), of the Loan amount.
2.03. 
If, at the Borrower's request and on such terms and conditions as the Bank may
agree, the Closing Date is extended, the fee payable by the Borrower for each
extension of the Closing Date shall be one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the
Loan amount available for withdrawal upon such extension. If the Borrower elects
to capitalize the fee, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Loan Account and pay to itself such amounts required to pay such fee. If the
Borrower elects to pay the fee from its own resources, the Borrower shall pay such
-2-
fee not later than sixty days after the date of the notice given by the Bank to the
Borrower confirming the extension of the Closing Date.
2.04. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Fixed Spread or such rate as may
apply following a Conversion (which has been requested by the Borrower and
accepted by the Bank in accordance with the pertinent provisions set forth in
Article IV of the General Conditions); subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year.
2.06. 
(a) 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this Section, the principal
amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
(b) 
The Borrower may at the time of requesting a Withdrawal also request
repayment provisions different from those set out in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
for such Withdrawal, provided that (i) the average maturity of such Withdrawal
does not exceed 20 years from the Withdrawal Date and the final maturity of such
Withdrawal does not exceed 35 years from the Withdrawal Date (or such other
average maturity and/or final maturity as may be generally applicable to loans
made by the Bank to the Borrower at the time of such agreement), and (ii) such
repayment provisions have been agreed between the Borrower and the Bank prior
to the Withdrawal Date of such Withdrawal.
2.07. 
At any time prior to the Closing Date, the Borrower may, by notice to the Bank,
refund any amount of the Withdrawn Balance for the purpose of re-crediting such
amount to the Loan Account for further withdrawals. Upon such refund, the
repayment schedule shall be adjusted on a pro rata basis, on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank.
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.05 of the General Conditions,
the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the
provisions of this Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To
this end, and further to Section 5.05 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either
party, exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; and
(b) 
without limitation upon paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall
promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have the effect of
materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action taken
under the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule
1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists, namely, that a situation has arisen
which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be
carried out.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists, namely, that any event specified in
Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of thirty (30)
days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists, namely, that the Bank is
satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program
and with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions,
(a) The Borrower's address is:
Ministerio de Hacienda
Av. M6xico 45, Gazcue
Santo Domingo de Guzmdn, Distrito Nacional
Dominican Republic
(b) The Borrower's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile:
809-688-8838
-4-
6.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions,
(a) The Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) The Bank's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
By
Au 
rized Representative
Name: Donald Guerrero Ortiz
Title: Minister of Finance
Date:______
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Rep/esentative
Name: Alessandro Legrottaglie
Title: Country Manager
Date:___ 
__ __
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
A. 
Strengthening institutions for improved climate and disaster resilience in
priority sectors.
1. 
The Borrower has established new institutional structures for quantifying, pricing
and managing contingent liabilities associated with climate and disaster risks, by:
(a) establishing an interinstitutional body to assess and quantify the socio-
economic and fiscal impacts of natural disasters; (b) granting legal mandate to the
MH's General Directorate for Fiscal Analysis and Policy to estimate and assess
the impacts of disaster and climate-related risks on fiscal accounts as part of
managing contingent liabilities; and (c) granting legal mandate to the MH's
General Directorate of Public Credit to manage the contracting of financial
instruments for risk transfer in accordance with the Borrower's applicable
legislation, as evidenced by:
(i) 
CNE's Resolution No. 1-2017, dated April 20, 2017; and
(ii) 
MH's Resolution No. 146-2017, dated April 11, 2017.
2. 
The Borrower has strengthened its capacity to incorporate safety standards in the
management of school infrastructure, by: (a) creating a General Directorate for
Risk Management within MINERD; (b) creating a General Directorate for
Building Rehabilitation within MINERD with responsibility for existing school
infrastructure rehabilitation and retrofitting; and (c) centralizing the supervision of
school infrastructure construction under the MOPC and in coordination with
MINERD, as evidenced by:
(i) 
MINERD's Departmental Order No. 18-2016, dated October 4, 2016;
(ii) 
MINERD's Departmental Order No. 01-2017, dated January 5, 2017; and
(iii) 
Borrower's Decree No. 348-16, dated December 2, 2016 published in the
Borrower's Official Gazette No. 10864, dated December 7, 2016.
3. 
The Borrower has enhanced flood and drought risk reduction by creating an inter-
institutional structure to coordinate and facilitate the work of the Borrower's
institutions responsible for integrated water resource management, as evidenced
by the Borrower's Decree No. 265-16, dated September 23, 2016, published in the
Borrower's Official Gazette No. 10859, dated October 3, 2016.
-7-
B. 
Establishing mandatory regulations for climate and disaster risk reduction in
public investment and construction works
4. 
The Borrower has established mandatory technical standards for incorporating
disaster and climate risk analysis into the design and formulation of all public
investment projects, as evidenced by:
(i) 
Updated SNIP Regulations and Procedures dated 2017: (1) SNIP
Technical Regulations; and (2) General Methodological Guide for the
Formulation and Evaluation of Public Investment Projects; and
(ii) 
MEPyD's Resolution No. 04-17 which approved the updated SNIP
Regulations and Procedures dated 2017.
5. 
The Borrower has issued mandatory technical regulations for granting operating
permits to health facilities by requiring: (a) compliance with MSP's guidelines for
the design, construction and finishing of health facilities; and (b) an assessment of
the health facilities built before 2011 using the Hospital Safety Index, as evidenced
by MSP's Resolution No. 001, dated February 20, 2017, issuing the Technical
Regulations for the Authorization to provide Clinical and Surgical Services.
6. 
The Borrower has strengthened its technical regulations for the supervision and
inspection of construction works by requiring said works to comply with all
applicable building regulations, as evidenced by the Borrower's Decree
(Reglamento para la Supervisi6n e Inspecci6n de Obras) No. 232-17, dated June
26, 2017, published in the Borrower's Official Gazette No. 10888, dated June 30,
2017.
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
may specify by notice to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal
tranche, from which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds.
The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
-8-
Amount of the Loan
Allocations 
Allocated
(expressed in US Dollars)
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 
150,000,000
(2) Fee payable pursuant to Section 2.03 of 
0
this Agreement
(3) Amount due pursuant to Section 4.05 (c) 
0
of the General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
$150,000,000
C. 
Payment of Fee Pursuant to Section 2.03 of Agreement. If the Closing Date is
extended pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement and the Borrower elects to
finance from its own resources the fee set forth in said Section, no withdrawal shall
be made from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of
such fee.
D. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
1. 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the
Bank is satisfied, based on evidence satisfactory to it, that a State of
Emergency (Estado de Emergencia) has been declared to respond to an
imminent or occurring natural catastrophe.
2. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if, at any time prior to the receipt by the
Bank of a request for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the Bank
determines that a review of the Borrower's progress in carrying out the
Program is warranted, the Bank shall give notice to the Borrower to that
effect. Upon the giving of such notice, no withdrawals shall be made of
the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance unless and until the Bank has notified the
Borrower of its satisfaction, after an exchange of views as described in
paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 3.01 of Article III of this Agreement,
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program.
E. 
Audit. Upon the Bank's request, the Borrower shall:
1. 
have the Deposit Account audited by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards
acceptable to the Bank;
2. 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than eight
months after the date of the Bank's request for such audit, a certified copy
of the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
-9-
shall reasonably request, and make such report publicly available in a
timely fashion and in a manner acceptable to the Bank; and
3. 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit
Account and its audit as the Bank shall reasonably request.
F. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is February 28, 2021.
-10-
SCHEDULE 2
Disbursement-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule - Level Repayment
Subject to the provisions of Section 3.03 of the General Conditions, the Borrower
shall repay each Disbursed Amount in semiannual installments payable on each
January 15 and July 15, the first installment to be payable on the twenty-fifth (25th)
Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount and
the last installment to be payable on the thirty-eight- (38th) Payment Date
following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount. Each installment
except for the last one shall be equal to one-fourteenth (1/14th) of the Disbursed
Amount. The last installment shall be equal to the remaining outstanding amount
of the Disbursed Amount.
2. 
The Bank shall notify the Loan Parties of the amortization schedule for each
Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed
Amount.
-11-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"CNE" means Comisi6n Nacional de Emergencias, the Borrower's National
Emergency Commission, created by the Borrower's Decree No. 361, dated March
14, 2001, and ratified by the Borrower's Law No. 147-02, dated September 22,
2002 and published in the Borrower's Official Gazette No. 10172 on September
29, 2002.
2. 
"Deposit Account" means the account referred to under Section 2.03(a) of the
General Conditions.
3. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Development Policy
Financing", dated July 14, 2017, with the modifications set forth in Section II of
this Appendix.
4. 
"Hospital Safety Index" means indice de Seguridad Hospitalaria an indicator that
provides a snapshot of the probability that a hospital or health facility will continue
to function in an emergency situation, based on the assessment of its structural,
non-structural, and functional factors.
5. 
"MEPyD" means Ministerio de Economia, Planificaci6n y Desarrollo, the
Borrower's Ministry of Economy, Planning and Development, or any successor
thereto.
6. 
"MINERD" 
means Ministerio de Educaci6n, the Borrower's Ministry of
Education, or any successor thereto.
7. 
"MH" means Ministerio de Hacienda, the Borrower's Ministry of Finance, or any
successor thereto.
8. 
"MOPC" means Ministerio de Obras Ptiblicas y Comunicaciones, the Borrower's
Ministry of Public Works and Communications, or any successor thereto.
9. 
"MSP" means Ministerio de Salud Ptublica, the Borrower's Ministry of Public
Health, or any successor thereto.
10. 
"PIP Law" means the Borrower's Law No. 498-06 on Public Planning and
Investment, dated December 28, 2006, and published in the Borrower's Official
Gazette No. 10400 dated December 29, 2006
11. 
"Program" means: the program of objectives, policies, and actions set forth or
referred to in the letter dated September 14, 2017 from the Borrower to the Bank
-12-
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its execution
and comprising actions taken, including those set forth in Section I of Schedule I
to this Agreement, and actions to be taken consistent with the program's
objectives.
12. 
"Signature Date" means the latest of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applied to all references to "the
date of the Loan Agreement" in the General Conditions.
13. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
14. 
"SNIP" means Sistema Nacional de Inversi6n Piblica, the Borrower's national
public investment system established by the PIP Law.
15. 
"State of Emergency" means a declaration by the Borrower's President, through
the issuance of a Borrower's Decree of a state of emergency (Estado de
Emergencia) in accordance with articles 12 8(1)(g), 262, 265 and 266 of the
Borrower's Constitution, dated June 13, 2015 and published in the Borrower's
Official Gazette on July 10, 2015, as it may be amended from time to time.
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In paragraph 54 of the Appendix, the term "Fixed Spread" is modified to read as
follows:
"54. 
"Fixed Spread" means, for each Withdrawal, the Bank's fixed spread for
the Loan Currency of the Withdrawal in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C.
time, on the Withdrawal Date, and expressed as a percentage per annum; provided,
that: (a) for purposes of determining the Default Interest Rate, pursuant to Section
3.02 (e), that is applicable to an amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance on which
interest is payable at a Fixed Rate, the "Fixed Spread" means the Bank's fixed
spread in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, one calendar day prior to the
date of the Loan Agreement, for the Currency of denomination of such amount;
(b) for purposes of a Conversion of the Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread
to a Variable Rate based on the Fixed Spread, and for purposes of fixing the
Variable Spread pursuant to Section 4.02, "Fixed Spread" means the Bank's fixed
spread for the Loan Currency as reasonably determined by the Bank on the
Conversion Date; and (c) upon a Currency Conversion of all or any amount of the
-13-
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, the Fixed Spread shall be adjusted on the Execution
Date in the manner specified in the Conversion Guidelines."
2. 
In paragraph 101 of the Appendix, the term "Variable Spread" is modified to read
as follows:
"101. 
"Variable Spread" means, for each Withdrawal and each Interest Period:
(a) (1) the Bank's standard lending spread for Loans in effect at 12:01 a.m.
Washington, D.C. time, on the Withdrawal Date; (2) minus (or plus) the weighted
average margin, for the Interest Period, below (or above) the Reference Rate, for
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings or portions
thereof allocated by it to fund loans that carry interest at a rate based on the
Variable Spread; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
percentage per annum and (b) in case of Conversions, the variable spread, as
applicable, as determined by the Bank in accordance with Conversion Guidelines
and notified to the Borrower pursuant to Section 4.01(c). In the case of a Loan
denominated in more than one Currency, "Variable Spread" applies separately to
each of such Currencies."
3. 
The following definitions of the terms "Withdrawal" and "Withdrawal Date" are
inserted as new paragraphs 102 and 103, respectively, and the remaining
definitions and paragraphs (as the case may be) renumbered accordingly:
"102. 
"Withdrawal" means each amount of the Loan withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 2.01."
"103. 
"Withdrawal Date" means, for each Withdrawal, the date on which the
Bank pays the Withdrawal."
