OFFICIAL
LOAN NUMBER 8729-MX
Loan Agreement
(Grain Storage and Information for Agricultural Competitiveness Project)
between
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
November, 13 
,2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
November 13 , 2017, between UNITED
MEXICAN STATES ("Borrower") duly represented by its Ministry of Finance and Public
Credit (Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Piblico) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank").
Whereas the Borrower has informed the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan (as set
forth in the table in Section IV.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and for purposes of
supporting the project described in Schedule I to this Agreement (the "Project")), shall be
used in conformity with the requirements of the Borrower's income, budgetary and public
debt laws and the terms of this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
Noting that the Borrower has informed the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan shall
be used in conformity with the requirements of the Borrower's income, budgetary
and public debt laws and the terms of this Agreement, but without limitation to the
provisions of Section 8.01 of the General Conditions, the Bank agrees to lend to
the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
the amount of one hundred twenty million Dollars ($120,000,000), as such amount
may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance
with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist the
Borrower in financing the Project.
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. Unless the Borrower's Representative
designated in Section 6.01 of this Agreement otherwise informs the Bank, the
Borrower's Representative for purposes of taking any action required or permitted
to be taken pursuant to this Section is the NAFIN's Director(a) de Organismos
Financieros Internacionales or any person or persons whom such representative
shall designate in writing.
-2-
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, however, that the interest payable shall in no event be less than
zero percent (0%) per annum; and provided furthermore that, upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest
payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be
determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General
Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan
Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of
thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as
provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the. Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
-3-
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.09. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure
Limit (as said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of
this Section), the Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of
one half of one percent (0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess
Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for
each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if any)
shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set
forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during
which the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit,
the product of: (A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the
ratio of all (or, if the Bank so determines, a portion) of the Loan
to the aggregate amount of all (or the equivalent portions) of the
loans made by the Bank to the Borrower and to other borrowers
guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an exposure
surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined from
time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the
Bank's financial exposure to the Borrower, which, if exceeded,
would subject the Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined
from time to time by the Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total
financial exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by
the Bank.
-4-
ARTICLE M -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall carry out the Project through SAGARPA (through ASERCA)
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through
SAGARPA (through ASERCA) shall ensure that the Project is carried out in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consist of the following, namely, that, any of
the parties to the Contrato de Mandato shall have failed to perform any of their
obligations under the Contrato de Mandato, and that in the opinion of the Bank,
such failure materially or adversely affects the objective of the Project.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to
the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that
the Contrato de Mandato has been duly executed by the parties thereto.
5.02. 
Additional Legal Matter consists of the following:
(a) the Borrower, through SHCP and SAGARPA, has issued two separate legal
opinions -one for SHCP and one for SAGARPA/ASERCA-satisfactory to the
Bank, by the Borrower's counsel acceptable to the Bank, indicating that the
Contrato de Mandato has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed
and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower, and is legally binding upon the
Borrower in accordance with the Contrato de Mandato's terms; and
(b) NAFIN has issued a legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank, by NAFIN's
counsel satisfactory to the Bank, indicating that the Contrato de Mandato has
been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of,
NAFIN, and is legally binding upon NAFIN in accordance with the Contrato
de Mandato's terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
-5-
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower's
Representative is the Titular de la Unidad de Cridito Piblico of SHCP. The
authorized representative to make requests for Conversions or for an IBRD Hedge
(as defined in the Hedging Guidelines) on behalf of the Borrower shall be: (a) the
Titular de la Unidad de Cridito PMblico of SHCP or any person or persons whom
he or she shall designate in writing for this particular purpose; or (b) NAFIN's
Director(a) de Organismos Financieros Internacionales de NAFIN.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Secretaria de Hacienda y Crdito Pilblico
Unidad de Asuntos Internacionales de Hacienda
Insurgentes Sur 1971, torre III, piso 3
Colonia Guadalupe Inn
01020 M6xico City
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-6-
AGREED at Mexico City. United Mexican States. as of the day and year
first above written.
UNITEI) MEXICAN STATES
By
Authorizåd Representative
Name: 
\AÅc 
ms (
Titie: 
el.i~ 
,~.ÅÅ øt t7
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Narne: 
i la 
*o 
1 -
,
Title: 
i 
x 
__
-7-
SCHEDULE I
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve access to grain storage and information
for agricultural producers in Mexico.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. Grain Storage Infrastructure and Operation
The purpose of the activities described below is to improve the grain storage infrastructure
and strengthen the capacity for the operation and application of grain quality norms and
standards, through:
1. 
The provision of support for the carrying out of Grain Storage Subprojects in Selected
States consisting of the following activities, including:
(a) the rehabilitation and/or upgrading of existing grain storage facilities, including
collection and trade centers, and purchase and installation of required equipment;
and/or
(b) the construction of new grain storage facilities, including collection and trade
centers, and purchase and installation of required equipment.
2. The provision of support for the operation and sustainability of Grain Storage
Subprojects, including:
(a) (i) the preparation of business plans; (ii) the carrying out of capacity building
activities for grain storage facilities operators, including the preparation of capacity
building materials, on the operation, control and maintenance of grain storage
facilities and required equipment under Grain Storage Subprojects; and (iii) the
certification of said grain storage facilities; and
(b) the provision of support to grain storage facilities operators, Eligible Grain
Producer Organizations, and other relevant agricultural producers, on: (i) the
application of relevant grain quality norms and standards through, inter alia:
(A) the carrying out of capacity building activities on, inter alia, grain quality
control and management on-farm; and (B) the preparation of capacity building
materials for grain quality control and management in collecting and trade center,
and (ii) relevant financial and administrative aspects.
-8-
Part 2. Information for Grain Management, Markets and Monitoring
The purpose of the activities described below is to improve access to information to enable
the Borrower's agricultural producers in their decision making, through:
I. Provision of support for: (a) the development, operation and maintenance of an
information system for grain markets and management, including data collection and
integration, and the carrying out of related capacity building activities on the use of
said system and data collection; and (b) the carrying out of dissemination activities to
promote the use of the information system.
2. Strengthening the commercialization linkages of grain storage facilities through the
following activities, including: (a) the participation of Eligible Grain Producer
Organizations in agricultural fairs and other relevant sector events; (b) the carrying out
of pertinent analysis on, inter alia, new market opportunities, market segmentation
potential, and other strategic needs to improve grain commercialization; and (c) the
carrying out of capacity building activities to improve market access of Eligible Grain
Producer Organizations.
3. 
Provision of support for the preparation, implementation, monitoring and evaluation
of the Project.
-9-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section 1. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements.
1. 
The Borrower, through SAGARPA (through ASERCA) shall:
(a) 
no later than forty-five (45) days from the Effective Date, or any other date
as shall be agreed by the Bank, designate and thereafter maintain,
throughout Project implementation, a team within ASERCA with
functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, which shall be
responsible 
for overall 
Project 
coordination 
and day to 
day
implementation of the Project, and staffed with personnel in adequate
numbers, with qualifications, experience and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank and set forth in the Project Operational Manual
and
(b) 
(i) carry out the Project in accordance with a manual, acceptable to the
Bank (Project Operational Manual or POM): and (ii) not amend, abrogate
or waive the POM or any of its provisions without the Bank's written prior
consent. In case of conflict between the provisions of the POM and the
provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall
prevail.
2. 
The Borrower, through SAGARPA (through ASERCA) shall coordinate,
throughout Project implementation, with other relevant public and private entities
participating in the technical implementation of the Project, all under
arrangements and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, as described in the
POM.
3. 
The Borrower, through SAGARPA (through ASERCA), shall operate and
maintain, throughout Project implementation, an accessible grievance redress
mechanism, acceptable to the Bank, to address grievances relating to the carrying
out of the Project activities.
B. 
Contrato de Mandato
1. 
For purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower, through SHCP, SAGARPA
and ASERCA, shall enter into a contract (Contrato de Mandato) with NAFIN,
satisfactory to the Bank, whereby:
-10-
(a) 
SAGARPA agrees to carry out the Project through ASERCA in
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement including compliance
with the POM and the Anti-Corruption Guidelines;
(b) 
NAFIN agrees to act as financial agent of the Borrower with respect to the
Loan, meaning that, inter alia, NAFIN agrees to represent the Borrower
vis-h-vis the Bank for purposes of submitting Loan withdrawal
applications to the Bank in form and substance sufficient to justify
disbursement by the Bank to the Borrower, referred to in the additional
instructions cited in Section IV.A.1 of this Schedule, all of this in
compliance with the provisions of this Agreement, and to abide by the
Anti-Corruption Guidelines;
(c) 
the Borrower, through SHCP, shall have the right to, in case of fraud or
corruption (as defined in the Anti-Corruption Guidelines) provide for the
early termination of the Contrato de Mandato or temporarily suspend its
effects, or, if applicable, require the Restitution of an amount equivalent
of the funds transferred to NAFIN under the Contrato de Mandato; and
(d) 
the Borrower, through SAGARPA (through ASERCA), agrees to
cooperate fully with NAFIN to ensure that NAFIN and SAGARPA
(through ASERCA) are able to comply with all of their obligations
referred to in this Agreement.
2. 
The Borrower, through SHCP, SAGARPA and ASERCA, shall, and shall cause
NAFIN to, exercise their rights and carry out their obligations under the Contrato
de Mandato in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
3. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, neither the Borrower, through SHCP,
SAGARPA or ASERCA, shall, and shall cause NAFIN to, not amend, terminate,
abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any provision of the Contrato de Mandato. In
case of any conflict between the provisions of the Contrato de Mandato and those
of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
C. 
Grain Storage Subprojects
1 .
For purposes of implementing Part 1.1 of the Project, immediately upon the
selection and approval of a Grain Storage Subproject pursuant to the eligibility
criteria and procedures established in the POM, the Borrower, through SAGARPA
(through ASERCA), shall provide Direct Support, to the relevant Eligible Grain
Producer Organization pursuant to an agreement (Subproject Agreement) to be
entered between the Borrower, through SAGARPA (through ASERCA), and the
Eligible Grain Producer Organization, under terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank which shall include, inter alia:
(a) 
the Eligible Grain Producer Organization's obligation to: (i) carry out the
Grain Storage Subproject in accordance with the requirements of the POM
(including the EMP) and the Anti-Corruption Guidelines; (ii) co-finance
part of the costs of the Grain Storage Subproject, as defined in the POM;
(iii) procure the goods, works and services in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement; (iv) operate and maintain the Grain Storage
Subproject as established in the POM; (v) at the request of the Borrower,
through SAGARPA (through ASERCA), or the Bank, enable ASERCA
and/or the Bank, together with ASERCA, to inspect the Grain Storage
Subproject, including its operation and maintenance; and (vi) take or
permit to be taken all actions to enable the Borrower, through SAGARPA
(through ASERCA), to comply with its obligations under the pertinent
Subproject Agreement; and
(b) 
ASERCA's right to take remedial actions (including Restitution) against
the Eligible Grain Producer Organization in case the Eligible Grain
Producer Organization shall have failed to comply with its/their
obligations under the respective Subproject Agreement.
2. 
The Borrower, through SAGARPA (through ASERCA) shall exercise its rights
and carry out its obligations under each Subproject Agreement, in such manner as
to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower,
through SAGARPA (through ASERCA) shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive,
terminate or fail to enforce any Subproject Agreement, or any provision thereof.
D. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
E. 
Safeguards.
1. 
The Borrower, through SAGARPA (through ASERCA) shall carry out the Project
in accordance with the EMP and the IPP. Except as otherwise agreed by the Bank,
the Borrower, through SAGARPA (through ASERCA), shall not amend, abrogate,
waive, or fail to enforce the EMP and/or IPP or any of their provisions.
2. 
The Borrower, through SAGARPA (through ASERCA), shall cause each Eligible
Grain Producer Organization under the pertinent Subproject Agreement to:
(a) implement the pertinent Grain Storage Subproject in accordance with the EMP;
(b) adopt the procedures detailed in said EMP for environmental screening,
evaluation, implementation and monitoring of the works under the Grain Storage
Subprojects, including the procedures for the preparation of site-specific
environmental management plans, when applicable; and (c) implement and/or
-12-
cause to be implemented the pertinent site-specific environmental management
plan, in accordance with its terms and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through SAGARPA (through ASERCA), shall ensure that the terms
of reference for any technical assistance provided under Part 1.2 of the Project, as
applicable, shall be satisfactory to the Bank, and to that end, such terms of
reference shall require that the advice conveyed through such technical assistance
be consistent with the requirements of the Bank's Safeguards Policies and
Procedures.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reportine and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower, through SAGARPA (through ASERCA), shall monitor and evaluate the
progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the
Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than sixty (60) days after the end of the period covered by
such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower, through SAGARPA (through ASERCA) shall maintain or cause
to be maintained a financial management system in accordance with the provisions
of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower, through SAGARPA (through ASERCA), shall prepare and
furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of each calendar
semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the semester,
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through SAGARPA (through ASERCA), shall have its Financial
Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the
General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period
of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such
period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such
period.
Section HI. 
Procurement
All goods, works, non-consulting services and consulting services required for the
Project and to be financed with an amount equivalent to the amount in Dollars
provided under this Agreement shall be procured in accordance with the
-13-
requirements set forth or referred to in the Procurement Regulations and the
provisions of the Procurement Plan.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"Disbursement Guidelines for Investment Project Financing" dated February
2017, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account on
or after the Effective Date and pay to itself the Front-end Fee payable pursuant to
Section 3.01 of the General Conditions. The remaining proceeds of the Loan shall
be disbursed in Dollars unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and the
Bank and so reflected in the additional instructions referred to in Section IV.A.1
immediately above. Consistently with Section 2.05 of the General Conditions, the
Borrower shall use an amount equivalent to the amount in Dollars provided under
this Agreement to finance Eligible Expenditures.
3. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed with an amount equivalent to the amount in Dollars provided under this
Agreement ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
Expenditures in each Category:
-14-
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods and works under 
74,850,000 
100% of the amount
Grain Storage Subprojects 
disbursed 
under 
the
under Part 1.1 of the Project 
pertinent 
Subproject
Agreement, as set forth
in the POM
(2) Goods, non-consulting 
44,850,000 
100%
services, 
consulting
services, Capacity Building
and Project 
Incremental
Costs under Parts 1.2 and 2
of the Project
(3) Front-end Fee 
300,000 
Amount 
payable
pursuant to Section 2.03
of this Agreement in
accordance with Section
2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions
(4) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest 
Rate 
Collar 
Section 2.08(c) of this
premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
120,000,000
4. 
For purposes of Section IV.A.3. the following terms have the meaning below:
(a) 
"Capacity Building" means the reasonable expenditures (other than
consulting services) incurred by the Borrower, through SAGARPA
(through ASERCA) in connection with the carrying out of capacity
building activities under the Project, as described in the POM.
(b) 
"Project Incremental Costs" means the reasonable incremental operating
expenditures, based on an annual allocation previously approved by the
Bank and the Borrower, required for an efficient Project implementation,
administration, supervision, monitoring and evaluation, including limited
incremental costs incurred by ASERCA 
in the implementation,
monitoring and evaluation of the Project; but excluding salaries of the
Borrower's (including SAGARPA and ASERCA's) officials and public
servants, as set forth in the POM.
- 15 -
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $24,000,000 may be made
for payments made prior to this date but on or after the date twelve (12) months
prior to the date of this Agreement, for Eligible Expenditures under the Project.
2. 
The Closing Date is March 24, 2022.
- 16-
SCHEDULE 3
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in fill on April 15, 2030.
- 17-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" 
means the ~Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants". dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as
of July 1, 2016.
2. 
"ASERCA" means Agencia de Seirvicios a la Comiercializaci6n v Desarrollo de
Jlercados Agr-opecuarios, the Borrower's Agency for Commercialization and
Development of Agricultural Markets, a deconcentrated entity with technical and
operational autonomy established under SAGARPA pursuant to Borrower's
Decree dated April 16, 1991. as amended.
3. 
"Bank's Safeguards Policies and Procedures" means the operational policies and
procedures of the Bank (as the same may be amended from time to time by the
Bank) set forth in the Bank's Operational Manual and identified as Environmental
Assessment (OP/BP 4.01), Natural Ilabitats (OP/BP 4.04), Forests (OP/BP 4.36),
Pest Management (OP/BP 4.09), Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10), Physical
Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11), Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12),
Forestry (OP/13P 4.36) and Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37). as said manual is
published under w 
.worldhanLor'.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
5. 
-'Contrato de Mandato" means the agreement between the Borrower (through
SHCP, SAGARPA and ASERCA) and NAFIN referred to in Section I.B.1 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
6. 
"Direct Support" means a non-reimbursable contribution in an amount to be
defined by a resource allocation fomlula set forth in the POM. made out of an
equivalent amount of the proceeds of the Loan to any given Eligible Grain
Producer Organization to assist in the financing of Eligible Expenditures under a
Grain Storage Subproject.
7. 
"Eligible Grain Producer Organization" means a legally established grain producer
organization which operates in Mexico and meets the eligibility criteria set forth
in the POM for implementing a Grain Storage Subproject.
8. 
"EMP" means the Environmental Management Plan prepared by ASERCA.
acceptable to the Bank and published in the Borrower's territory on January 20.
2017 and on the Bank's external website on February 2. 2017. setting forth the
principles, guidelines, rules and procedures to assess the potential environmental.
-18-
social, health and safety impacts of Project activities, and mitigation, monitoring
and institutional measures to be taken to offset or eliminate any such negative
impacts, or reduce them to acceptable levels, including: (a) measures for chance
findings of physical cultural property, (b) an integrated pest management plan; (c)
guidelines for the identification of existing environmental conditions and potential
direct and indirect environmental impacts resulting from the carrying out of Grain
Storage Subprojects (including a negative list of investments not eligible for
financing under the Project); (d) guidelines for the carrying out of environmental
assessments 
and the preparation and 
implementation of environmental
management plans, when applicable; (e) the recommendation of mitigation
measures for each negative impact identified; and (f) measures for enhancing each
identified positive impact; as said framework may be amended from time to time
with the Bank's prior written approval.
9. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
10. 
"Grain Storage Subproject" means any of the infrastructure investments described
in Part 1.1 of the Project.
11. 
"IPP" means the Indigenous Peoples Plan prepared by ASERCA, acceptable to the
Bank and published in the Borrower's territory on January 20, 2017 and on the
Bank's external website on February 2, 2017, which includes an action plan of
measures to ensure that indigenous peoples receive social and economic benefits
that are culturally appropriate under the Project.
12. 
"NAFIN" means Nacional Financiera, S.N.C., I.B.D., a Mexican development
bank serving as the Borrower's financial agent for purposes of the Loan, or any
successor thereto.
13. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
February 13, 2017 and provided for under Section IV of the Procurement
Regulations, as the same may be updated from time to time in agreement with the
Bank.
14. 
"Procurement Regulations" means the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for
Borrowers under Investment Project Financing", dated July 1, 2016.
15. 
"Project Operational Manual" or "POM" means the 
manual for the Project
referred to in Section I.A. I (b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, acceptable to the
Bank, prepared by the Borrower, through SAGARPA (through ASERCA),
describing and setting forth inter alia: (a) the activities and timetable of actions to
be carried out under the Project; (b) the respective roles and responsibilities of the
agencies involved in the implementation of the Project; (c) staff of ASERCA
-19-
working in the Project; (d) the fiduciary, technical and operational aspects and
procedures for implementation of the Project, including the financial management
procedures (budgeting, accounting and internal control, disbursement and flow of
funds, financial reporting, annual reports, internal and external audit arrangements
procedures); (e) the criteria and procedures for the selection of Grain Storage
Subprojects; (f) the performance indicators of the Project; (g) the model form of
the Subproject Agreement; (h) the EMP; and (i) the IPP; as the same may be
amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
16. 
"Restitution" means the refund to the Borrower of the portion of the equivalent
amount of the Loan with respect to which fraud and corruption has occurred as set
forth in the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
17. 
"SAGARPA" means Secretaria de Agricultura, Ganaderia Desarrollo Rural,
Pesca y Alimentacidn, the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock, Rural
Development, Fisheries and Food, or any successor thereto.
18. 
"Selected State" means any of the following Borrower's states: Chiapas, Estado
de Mexico, Guanajuato, Michoacin, Oaxaca, Puebla and Veracruz, or any other
state as may be agreed between the Borrower, through SARGARPA (through
ASERCA) and the Bank.
19. 
"SHCP" means Secretaria de Hacienda y Cridito Pliblico. the Borrower's
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, or any successor thereto.
20. 
"Subproject Agreement" means any of the agreements to be entered into between
the Borrower through SAGARPA (through ASERCA) and the Eligible Grain
Producer Organization and referred to in Section I.C.1 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
Section U. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1 .
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
-20-
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. 
The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any
surcharge, any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early
termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any
premium payable upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
