OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8676-CN
Loan Agreement
(Second Gansu Cultural and Natural Heritage Protection and Development Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
,2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8676-CN
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
2 
>. 
, 2017, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
CHINA ("Borrower") and INTEkNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE I -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million Dollars ($100,000,000), as such
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance
with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the
project described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of-the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and. such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e)
of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
-2-
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest
rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the
Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b)- 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
2.09. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit (as
said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of this Section), the
Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of one half of one percent
(0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-
paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The
Exposure Surcharge (if any) shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each
Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during which
the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit, the product of:
(A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the ratio of all (or, if the Bank
so determines, a portion) of the Loan to the aggregate amount of all (or the
equivalent portions) of the loans made by the Bank to the Borrower and to
other borrowers guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an
exposure surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined
from time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the Bank's
financial exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded, would subject the
-3-
Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined from time to time by the
Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total financial
exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
ARTICLE HI-PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project Implementing Entity in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the Project
Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project
is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that any party to the
Implementation Agreement shall have failed to perform any of its respective obligations
thereunder.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that the
Implementation Agreement has been duly executed on behalf of the Project Implementing
Entity, through its Provincial Finance Department, and GHATIG.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the Implementation
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Project Implementing Entity,
through its Provincial Finance Department, and GHATIG, and is legally binding upon them
in accordance with its terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Xicheng District
Beijing 100820
-4-
People's Republic of China
Facsimile:
(86-10) 6855-2077
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at Beijing, People's Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
kuyll--l
Title:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
4 3 
A 
a4
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authoriz 
Representative
Name: 
a.- 
/
Title: _ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to conserve cultural and natural heritage, enhance tourism
services, and improve community services in selected Project Sites in Gansu province.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A. 
Heritage Conservation and Tourism Services Improvement
1 .
Carrying out of site conservation and protection activities, construction, upgrading and/or
rehabilitation of basic infrastructure and services facilities in Project Sites, consisting of,
inter alia:
(a) 
Protection and conservation of cultural and natural heritage and cultural relics,
including the carrying out of studies on Project-related activities, and the design of
cultural heritage preservation programs.
(b) 
Construction, rehabilitation and/or upgrading of tourist roads, footpaths,
pedestrian bridges, and scenic lookouts, including associated equipment.
(c) 
Provision and upgrading of services including water supply, drainage, wastewater
collection and disposal, solid waste collection, power, and tourist signage,
including associated equipment.
(d) 
Construction and/or rehabilitation of selected scenic areas' 
administration
facilities, museums, heritage and service centers, and parking space associated
thereto.
(e) 
Implementation of mitigation measures and works for natural heritage aimed at
landslides, floods, and other natural hazards; including associated equipment.
(f) 
Development of a tourism information system and website for each of the Project
Sites, which is fully integrated with the province-wide Gansu E-Tourism system.
Part B. 
Community Basic Services Delivery
1. 
Construction, upgrading and/or rehabilitation of community-level basic infrastructure, and
provision of basic services to the communities in the Project Sites, consisting of, inter alia:
(a) improvement of pavement for village access roads; (b) provision of water supply,
wastewater collection and disposal; (c) solid waste collection and sanitation improvements;
(d) street lighting; .(e) construction of a wastewater collection network in Kongtong Scenic
Area; (f) construction of a wastewater treatment plant along with a water collection
-7-
network in Hua'er Songmingyan Scenic Area; and (g) construction of village classrooms
for teaching and practicing local intangible cultural heritage.
Part C. 
Capacity Building, Institutional Strengthening, and Project Management
Support
1. 
Provision of training to selected Project-related staff, scenic area administrators and
operators, as appropriate, on inter alia, cultural and natural heritage protection and scenic
area management.
2. 
Provision of: (a) training to residents of local communities in the Project Sites on topics
related to, inter alia, the start-up or expansion of locally-owned and tourism-related -small
businesses, business skills for participation in tourism, and protection of intangible cultural
practices; and (b) technical assistance to local communities for incubating community-
level small business associations and cooperatives.
3. 
Provision of Project management support and technical assistance on, inter alia: (a) design
review; (b) project management, monitoring and supervision; (c) construction supervision;
(d) independent monitoring of the implementation of environmental and social safeguards;
and (e) project reporting.
4. 
Carrying out of studies on heritage preservation and the culture of local ethnic minorities,
as well as on the overall management of scenic sites (including asset management).
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Financing Arrangements
1. 
For the purposes of carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make available the
proceeds of the Loan to the Project Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including the following principal terms:
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars or any other Currency as
the Loan may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion (such
principal amount determined on the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal from
the Loan Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn.
(b) 
The principal amount so made available (including an amount equal to the fee paid
pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement) shall be recovered over a period of
thirty (30) years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years.
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest applicable from time to time
to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.05 of this Agreement.
(d) 
A Commitment Charge shall be charged equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to: (a) manage, operate, monitor,
transfer and reconcile the proceeds of the Loan made available to it pursuant to paragraph
1 above in accordance with arrangements and procedures satisfactory to the Bank; (b) take
all required actions, including provision of timely consents and approvals as may be
necessary, to facilitate the utilization of said Loan proceeds and the implementation of the
Project and, to enable the Project Implementing Entity to comply with its undertakings
under the Project Agreement; and (c) maintain all relevant records and documents related
to the Loan and the Project and provide promptly such documents and records, including
all other information, as may be requested by the Borrower or the Bank from time to time.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
-9-
C. 
Safeguards
The Borrower shall take, and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to take, all
measures necessary to comply with, or all measures necessary to enable the Project
Implementing Entity to comply with, the provisions of Section I.C of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring. Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
I. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to monitor and evaluate the
progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the
Project Operations Manual. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar
semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than sixty (60) days after the end of
the period covered by such report.
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the execution of
the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than three (3) months after the Closing Date.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Sectioh, the Borrower shall cause the
Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the Bank, as part of the Project
Report, not later than sixty (60) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim
unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to have its Financial Statements
audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the
Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. The Borrower shall make,
or cause the Project Implementing Entity to make, the audited Financial Statements
publicly available in a timely fashion and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
-10-
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. 
All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to the
corresponding method described in Sections II and LU of the Procurement Guidelines, or
Sections U, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services
1 .
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in
the Procurement Plan: 
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional
provisions set forth in the box below; (b) Direct Contracting; and (c) Shopping.
The procedures applicable to the procurement of goods, works, and non-consulting
services under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding
("NCB") shall be the open tendering procedures set forth in the Borrower's Law on
Tendering and Bidding promulgated by its Order No. 21 dated August 30, 1999;
provided, however, that such procedures shall be subject to the provisions of Section I,
Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of Section III, and Appendix 1 of the Procurement Guidelines,
and the additional provisions in the following. In the event of a conflict between the
Borrower's procedures and these NCB Procedure Modifications, the latter shall govern.
(i) 
Eligibility to participate in a procurement process and to be awarded a Bank-
financed contract shall be as defined under Section I of the Procurement
Guidelines; accordingly, no bidder or potential bidder shall be declared
ineligible for such contract for reasons other than those provided in Section I
of the Procurement Guidelines. No restriction based on nationality of bidders
-11-
and/or origin of goods shall apply, and foreign bidders shall be allowed to
participate in NCB without application of restrictive conditions.
(ii) 
All invitations to prequalify or bid shall be advertised in a national newspaper
of wide circulation in the Borrower's country, or on a widely used website /
electronic portal with free national and international access acceptable to the
Bank except for goods or non-consulting services contracts that are estimated
to cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, or works contracts that are
estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 each, which may be advertised in a
provincial daily newspaper. Such advertisement shall be made in sufficient
time for prospective bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding documents
and prepare and submit their responses. In any event, a minimum of thirty (30)
days shall be given to bidders between the date of such advertisement (or the
date of availability of bidding documents, whichever is later) and the deadline
for the submission of bids, and the advertisement and bidding documents shall
specify the deadline for the submission of bids. 
In the case of such
advertisement on a website / electronic portal, the notice shall remain readily
accessible nationally and internationally until at least the deadline for the
submission of bids. Potential bidders shall be allowed to inspect and purchase
bidding documents at any time prior to the deadline for the submission of bids.
(iii) 
Standard Bidding Documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
(iv) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of evaluating the
qualification of each bidder shall be specified in detail in the bidding
documents.
(v) 
Prequalification procedures and documents acceptable to the Bank shall be
used for large, complex and/or specialized works. 
Verification of the
information upon which a bidder was prequalified, including current
commitments, shall be carried out at the time of contract award, along with the
bidder's capability with respect to personnel and equipment. All bidders that
meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-qualification documents shall
be allowed to bid, and there shall be no limit on the number of pre-qualified
bidders. Where pre-qualification is not used, the qualification of the bidder
who is recommended for award of contract shall be assessed by post-
qualification, applying the qualification criteria stated in the bidding
documents.
(vi) 
Registration shall not be used to assess bidders' qualifications. A bidder shall
not be required to register as a condition for inspecting or purchasing bidding
documents, submitting its bid or receiving contract award. 
A bidder
determined to be the lowest evaluated responsive bidder, shall be given
reasonable opportunity of registering (if required) before contract signing
without any let or hindrance. Bidding shall not be restricted to any particular
class of contractors, and non-classified contractors shall also be eligible to bid.
-12-
(vii) 
No margins of preference of any sort shall be given to bidders, such as on the
basis of their location, place of incorporation, or affinity with the geographical
area in which the Project activities will take place.
(viii) 
All bidders who are awarded contracts for works and single-responsibility
contracts shall be required to provide performance security in an amount
sufficient to protect the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity /.Entities,
as the case may be, in case of breach of contract by the contractor, and the
bidding documents shall specify the required form and amount of such security
and any other potential damages for such breach.
(ix) 
Bidders shall be allowed to submit bids by mail or in person.
(x) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an opportunity
to be present (either in person or through their representatives) at the time of
bid opening, but bidders shall not be required to be present at the bid opening.
(xi) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding documents and
quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the form of pass/fail
requirements.
(xii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price exceeds any cost
estimate or falls outside any margin or bracket of prices or average bids
established by the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity / Entities, as
the case may be. Rejection of all bids or re-bidding shall not be allowed solely
because the number of bids is less than three (3), and rejection of all bids or
rebidding shall not take place without the Bank's prior written agreement.
(xiii) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder, that
is, the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of capability and resources
and whose bid has been determined: (A) to be substantially responsive to the
bidding documents; and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The winning
bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award, to undertake
responsibilities for work or to assume other obligations not stipulated in the
bidding documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally submitted. No
negotiations shall be permitted except with the Bank's no-objection.
(xiv) 
In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding document and
contract shall include provisions stating the Bank's policy to sanction firms or
individuals found to have engaged in fraud and corruption as set forth in the
Procurement Guidelines.
(xv) 
In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding document and
contract shall include provisions stating the Bank's policy with respect to
-13-
inspection and audit of accounts, records and other documents relating to the
submission of bids and contract performance.
(xvi) 
Government-owned enterprises in the Borrower's country may be permitted to
bid or submit a proposal of goods, works, or non-consulting services if they
can establish that they: (A) are legally and financially autonomous; (B) operate
under commercial law; and (C) are not a dependent agency of the agency
conducting the procurement.
(xvii) 
Matters such as subcontracting, joint venture relationships and assignment of
contract shall be handled in accordance with the bidding documents.
(xviii) The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be published in the
national or provincial press (as provided under paragraph (ii) above) or official
gazette or a free and. open-access website and shall identify: (A) the name of
each bidder who submitted a bid; (B) bid prices as read out at bid opening; (C)
the name of the bidder, and the evaluated price, of each bid that was evaluated;
(D) the names of bidders whose bids were either rejected as non-responsive or
not meeting qualification criteria, or not evaluated, with the reasons therefor;
and (E) the name of the winning bidder and the final total contract price, as
well as the duration and summary scope of the contract. Such publication shall
be within two (2) weeks of receiving the Bank's no-objection to the award
recommendation for contracts subject to the Bank's prior review, and within
two (2) weeks of the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity's award
decision for contracts subject to the Bank's post review. 
The bidding
documents shall disclose the newspaper in which and ! or the electronic means
by which the information on contract award will be published.
(xix) 
The Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity / Entities, as the case may
be, shall have in place an effective and independent protest mechanism for
bidders to protest. The bidding documents shall provide the professional title
and address of the official to whom such protests should be sent.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality and
Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following methods, other
than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of consultants'
services for those contracts which are specified in Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based
Selection; (b) Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications; (c) Procedures set forth in
paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of Individual
-14-
Consultants; (d) Single-source procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants; and
(e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
I. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank Disbursement
Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as
made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures
in each Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be Financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, non-consulting
services, consultant services, 
13,412,000 
100%
Training and Workshops, and
Incremental Operating Costs
under the Project
(2) Works 
86,338,000 
85%
Amount payable pursuant to
(3) Front-end Fee 
250,000 
Section 
2.03 
of 
this
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the General
TOTAL__AMOUNT_100_0_0_000_Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
100,000,000
-15-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $20,000,000 may be made for payments made prior to this
date but on or after May 8, 2016, for Eligible Expenditures.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2022.
-16-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying:
(a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment
Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary,
to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each March 15 and September 15
Beginning March 15, 2022 
2.00%
through September 15, 2046
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as
of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding
on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall
-17-
be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating
to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-18-
APPENDIX
Section 1. 
Definitions
1. 
"Annual Work Plan" means each of the rolling plans for the Project to be prepared or
updated by the Project Management Office, submitted by the Project Implementing Entity,
and approved by the Bank, on an annual basis as provided for in Section I.A.6 of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated
October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
3. 
"Bank's Safeguards Policies" means the operational policies and procedures for financing
of development projects by the Bank at the date of this Agreement and relating to
Environmental Assessment, Natural Habitats, Pest Management, Indigenous Peoples
(Ethnic Minorities), Physical Cultural Resources, Involuntary Resettlement, Forests,
Safety of Dams, Projects on International Waterways, and Projects in Disputed Areas, as
published under www.WorldBank.or"/opmanual.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
5. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January
2011 (revised July 2014).
6. 
"Displaced Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of the Project, have
experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by: (a) the
involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or
access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such
persons must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally
'designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such
persons; and a "Displaced Person" means any of such Displaced Persons.
7. 
"Environmental and Social Management Plan" or "ESMP" means the environmental and
social management plan for the Project prepared by the Project Implementing Entity,
acceptable to the Bank, dated March 13, 2016, which sets out the environmental and social
protection measures, including measures for the protection of natural habitats and physical
cultural resources, in respect of the Project, as well as administrative, monitoring,
supervision and training arrangements to ensure the implementation of said plan, as said
plan may be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank; and
such term includes all schedules and annexes supplemental to said plan.
-19-
8. 
"Ethnic Minorities Development Plan" or the acronym "EMDP" means the Project
Implementing Entity's plan for the Project dated April 2, 2016, with the objective of
avoiding cultural, social and economic adverse effects on ethnic minorities (as these are
defined in the EMDP) caused or likely to be caused by the Project, and through a process
of informed consultation and participation, to involve concerned ethnic minorities in the
design and implementation of relevant Project activities so as to ensure that the benefits
received by the ethnic minorities under the Project are in harmony with their economic,
social and cultural preferences and protect their customary user rights, as said plan or plans
may be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental thereto.
9. 
"GHATIG" means Gansu Highway, Aviation and Tourism Investment Group Co., Ltd., a
company wholly owned by the Project Implementing Entity and established and operating
pursuant to its business license No. 9162000071275663 1E, dated October 23, 2015, and
registered in Gansu's Provincial Administration of Industry and Commerce, which shall
be responsible for assisting the Project Implementing Entity with the day-to-day
implementation of the Project, or any successor thereto.
10. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
11. 
"Implementation Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the Project
Implementing Entity, through its Provincial Finance Department, and GHATIG pursuant
to Section I.A.2 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time with the prior written concurrence of the Bank, and such term includes
all schedules supplemental to said agreement.
12. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the reasonable costs incurred by the Project
Implementing Entity at the provincial and county/district levels, for purposes of Project
management and implementation based on the Annual Work Plans approved in advance
by the Bank, on account of office supplies and consumables, utilities, bank charges,
communications, mass media and printing services, interpretation and translation services,
vehicle rental, operation and maintenance, and insurance, office rent, building and
equipment maintenance, local transportation, domestic travel, lodging, and subsistence
allowances, salaries of contractual and temporary staff, but excluding salaries and any
salary supplements of members of the Borrower's or the Project Implementing Entity's
civil service.
13. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
14. 
"Procurement Plan"means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated October
26, 2016 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph
-20-
1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
15. 
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and the Project Implementing
Entity of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
16. 
"Project Counties/Districts" means, collectively, the following counties and district under
the jurisdiction of the Project Implementing Entity, and any successor(s) thereto:
(a) Kongtong District; (b) Jinchuan County; (c) Zhuanglang County; (d) Tanchang County;
(e) Kangxian County; and (f) Hezheng County.
17. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means the Borrower's Province of Gansu, or any successor
thereto.
18. 
"Project Leading Agency" means the Gansu Provincial Foreign Loan Administration
Committee, to provide overall leadership, policy guidance and institutional coordination in
Project preparation and implementation, and referred to in Section I.A. 1(a) of the Schedule
to the Project Agreement, and any successor thereto.
19. 
"Project Management Offices" or "PMOs" mean the county- and district-level Project
management offices established by each of the Project Counties/Districts to implement
Project activities, and referred to in Section I.A.1(c) of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement, and any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
20. 
"Project Operations Manual" means the Project -Implementing Entity's manual dated
October 26, 2016, acceptable to the Bank, providing, inter alia, for. (a) the institutional,
implementation, supervision, monitoring and evaluation and reporting arrangements for
the Project; and (b) implementation guidelines for various Project activities, including
safeguards, financial management, procurement and disbursement aspects, as such manual
may be revised from time to time with the prior written concurrence of the Bank; and such
term includes all schedules supplemental to said manual.
21. 
"Project Sites" means the following demarcated areas within the jurisdiction of the Project
Counties/Districts, as well as their immediately adjacent areas and/or identified buffer
zones:
(a) Kongtong Scenic Area, located in Kongtong District, Pingliang Prefecture; (b) the
Jingchuan Hundred Mile Grottoes Corridor, located in Jinchuan County; (c) Yunya Temple
Scenic Area, located in Zhuanglang County; (d) Guan'egou Scenic Area, located in
Tanchang County; (e) Yangba Scenic Area, located in Kangxian County; and (f) Hua'er
Songmingyan Scenic Area and the Hezheng County Museum, both located in Hezheng
County.
22. 
"Provincial Project Management Office" or "PPMO" means the provincial-level Project
management office established by the Project Implementing Entity on September 2, 2016,
-21-
housed within GHATIG, and referred to in Section I.A.1(b) of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement, and any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
23. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" and the acronym "RPF" mean the resettlement policy
framework for the Project, prepared by the Project Implementing Entity, acceptable to the
Bank, dated March 26, 2016, which sets out the policies and procedures for the acquisition
of land and other assets, compensation, grievance redress mechanisms, resettlement and
rehabilitation of Displaced Persons, and for the preparation of resettlement action plans as
may be required for Project activities, as said framework may be revised from time to time
with the prior written agreement of the Bank; and such term includes all schedules and
annexes supplemental to said framework.
24. 
"Safeguards Instruments" means, collectively, the Environmental and Social Management
Plan, the Ethnic Minorities Development Plan, and the Resettlement Policy Framework
(including any resettlement action plans to be prepared thereunder), as well as any
attachments, schedules and annexes supplemental to said instruments.
25. 
"Training and Workshops" means the costs of training activities under the Project, based
on the Annual Work Plans approved in advance by the Bank, and attributable to seminars,
workshops, and domestic and overseas training, along with travel and subsistence
allowances for training participants, services of trainers, rental of training facilities,
preparation and reproduction of training materials, and other activities directly related to
course preparation and implementation.
Section I. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1 .
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually
in arrears on each Payment Date."
-22-
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition
of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly:
"19.. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01 (b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01
(a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition
of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any surcharge, any
prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a
Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount
payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and
Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
