OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8725-IN
Loan Agreement
(National Hydrology Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
, 2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8725-IN
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
, 2017, between INDIA ("Borrower") and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set fbrth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred seventy-five million United States dollars
(USD 175,000,000) ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and
such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
-2-
2.08. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit (as
said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (bXii) and (b)(iii) of this Section), the
Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of one half of one percent
(0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-
paragraph (bXi) of this Section) for each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The
Exposure Surcharge (if any) shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each
Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during which
the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit, the product of:
(A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the ratio of all (or, if the Bank
so determines, a portion) of the Loan to the aggregate amount of all (or the
equivalent portions) of the loans made by the Bank to the Borrower and to
other borrowers guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an
exposure surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined
from time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the Bank's
financial exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded, would subject the
Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined from time to time by the
Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total financial
exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
ARTICLE 
1 -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower through MoWR,RD&GR shall carry out the Project with the participation of the
Project Implementing Entities in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and the Memoranda of Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower through MoWR,RD&GR
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is any of the following officials: Secretary, Additional
Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary, or Under Secretary of the
Department of Economic Affairs of the Ministry of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
Government of India
North Block
New Delhi 110001
India
Facsimile:
91-11-23094075
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at 
b 
, India, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
AA-z-
Tide: 1fi1yr 
arAE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Tte 
Rep-resentative
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve the extent, quality, and accessibility of water
resources information and to strengthen the capacity of targeted water resources management
institutions in India.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: 
Water Resources Monitoring Systems
I. 
Hydromet Observation Networks. Establishing and/or modernizing new and existing
hydrometeorological data acquisition networks with automated/digitized and real-time
communication 
systems 
including, inter alia, placing sensors; 
installing and
operationalizing hydrometeorological systems for meteorology, streamflow and water
storage measurements; and providing portable and laboratory equipment for water quality
testing.
2. 
Supervisory Control and Data acquisition ("SCADA") Systems for Water
Infrastructure. Installing and operationalizing SCADA in selected reservoirs, canals and
ground water operation systems for allowing remote control of gates and operation from a
control room, as well as responses on a real-time basis during floods and other
emergencies.
3. 
Establishment of Hydro-informatics Centers. (a) Constructing and/or upgrading
national and state hydro-informatics (data) centers to serve as hubs for real-time and long-
term data management and operational control systems; (b) Providing information
technology equipment and software to receive and process the aforementioned data; (c)
Establishing services to digitalize historical data and records; (d) Constructing facilities to
test hydrometeorological instrumentation and design and provide quality control over
installations; and (e) Setting up data storage services, including cloud servers.
Part B: 
Water Resources Information Systems ("WRIS")
1. 
National WRIS. Strengthening the web-based India-WRIS by integrating observation data
systems and including state-level data and multidisciplinary national level information
systems including, inter alia, standardizing software and protocols for database
management; providing national product/services through collaborative initiatives with
selected centers/organizations; providing remote sensing-based products and high-
resolution digital terrain models.
2. 
Regional/Sub National WRIS. Developing and/or strengthening centers for web-based
WRIS at regional, river basin and state level including, inter alia, introducing data
-6-
sharing and data synchronization capabilities with regional data systems along with
the provision of region-based WRIS views; and customizing tools and applications to serve
and exchange among state departments and relevant entities.
Part C: 
Water Resources Operations and Plannina Systems
I. 
Development of Analytical Tools and Decision-support Platforms. Developing of an
interactive platform for various water resources management applications and software
applications and setting-up a decision-making platform for actual operations and
investments including, inter alia: (a) developing a river basin management platform to
support river basin planning and water resources assessments; (b) developing streamnflow
forecasting and reservoir operation systems to integrate real-time data, weather forecast,
and hydrological models; and (c) supporting the improvement of irrigation management
and operation systems to improve the efficiency of hydraulic structures.
2. 
Purpose-driven Support. Carrying out studies, social and environmental impact
assessments and analytical tools to fill water resources knowledge gaps including
associated dissemination, discussion and publication activities.
3. 
Piloting Innovative Knowledge Products. Testing innovative applications developed
under the Project including, inter alia, operationalizing irrigation rosters in canal systems,
piloting community 
based water resources 
management in canal 
water and
groundwater irrigation systems, and 
benchmarking 
performance 
of water user
associations.
Part D: 
Institutional Capacity Enhancement
I. 
Water Resources Knowledge Centers. Establishing and/or strengthening selected centers
of excellence at a national, river basin and state levels including the provision of building
capacity activities.
2. 
Professional Development Carrying out professional training and networking activities
among water professionals including, inter alia, facilitating knowledge exchange,
management and communication, carrying out assessments of needs, developing
partnerships with national and international institutes and establishing community
practices among water practitioners, internships and visiting expert programs.
3. 
Project Management. Carrying out Project management activities at national and state
levels including providing technical assistance and operational support for running the
Project and carrying out procurement, financial management, safeguards, training,
communications, monitoring, learning and evaluation activities.
4. 
Operational Support. Carrying out of operational support activities.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section .
Implementation Arranements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
National Level
1 
The Borrower through MoWR,RD&GR shall maintain, throughout the period of
implementation of the Project, with functions, terms of reference and composition
satisfactory to the Bank, the following bodies: (a) the National Steering Committee to be
responsible for, inter alia, providing strategic guidance and policy direction on all activities
under the Project; and (b) the National Project Monitoring Unit within the MoWR,
RD&GR to be responsible for, inter alia, providing overall planning, management and
coordination of all activities under the Project and relevant technical support to the Project
Management Units.
2. 
The Borrower through MoWR,RD&GR shall maintain, throughout the period of
implementation of the Project, with functions, terms of reference and composition
satisfactory to the Bank, the Central Project Management Units established in each of the
Central Implementing Agencies to be responsible for, inter alia, providing relevant
technical support to the Project Management Units and carrying out the obligations set
forth in their Memoranda of Agreement.
3. 
By no later than two (2) month after the Effective Date, the Borrower through
MoWR,RD&GR shall engage under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and
thereafter maintain throughout the period of implementation of the Project, a technical
assistance and management support consultant to assist the National Project Monitoring
Unit in the implementation of the Project.
4. 
By no later than six (6) months after the Effective Date, the Borrower through
MoWR,RD&GR shall establish, and thereafter maintain throughout the period of
implementation of the Project, an independent National Water Informatics Center under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank to operate and maintain the web-based India-
WRIS referred to in Part B.1 of the Project.
Subnational Level
5. 
The Borrower through MoWR,RD&GR shall cause each of the Participating States to
establish as per the terms and conditions of its relevant Memorandum of Understanding,
and thereafter maintain, through the period of implementation of the Project, with
functions, terms of reference and composition satisfactory to the Bank: (a) the State Project
Steering Committee to be responsible for, inter alia, providing striategic guidance and
policy direction on relevant activities under the Project to the Project Monitoring Units;
and (b) the Project Management Unit to be responsible for, inter alia, carrying out the
obligations set forth in its relevant Memorandum of Agreement.
6. 
The Borrower through MoWR,RD&GR shall cause each of the River Based Organizations
to establish, and thereafter maintain, through the period of implementation of the Project,
with functions, terms of reference and composition satisfactory to the Bank, the Project
Management Unit to be responsible for, inter alia, carrying out the obligations set forth in
its relevant Memorandum of Agreement.
B. 
Project Implementation Plan
By no later than one (1) month after the Effective Date, the Borrower through
MoWR,RD&GR shall, and shall cause each of the Project Implementing Entities to, adopt
and thereafter maintain, throughout the period of implementation ofthe Project, the Project
Implementation Plan in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. The Borrower through
MoWR,RD&GR shall, and shall case each of the Project Implementing Entities to, ensure
that the Project is carried out in accordance with the arrangements and procedures set out
in the Project Implementation Plan, provided, however, that in the case of any conflict
between the arrangements and procedures set out in the Project Implementation Plan and
the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. Except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower through MoWR,RD&GR shall
not amend, abrogate or waive any provisions of the Project Implementation Plan.
C. 
Annual Reviews, Mid-Term reviews, and Annual Work Plans
1 .
By no later than October 3 1 of each year during the period of implementation of the
Project, the Borrower through MoWR,RD&GR shall carry out, with the participation of
the Project Implementing Entities, an annual review of the Project.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of the above-mentioned paragraph I of this Section,
by no later than June 30, 2019 and June 30, 2022, the Borrower through MoWR,RD&GR
shall carry out two (2) mid-term reviews of the Project, and shall incorporate the findings
of such reviews in the work programs of subsequent years adjusting the Project outlay for
the Project Implementing Entities based on their performance in agreement with the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower through MoWR, RD&GR shall: (a) by no later than January 31V of each
year during the period of implementation of the Project, and with the participation the
Project Implementing Entities, furnish to the Bank for its review and comments a proposed
Annual Work Plan and budget for the following fiscal year, giving details of the proposed
work Project activities, cost estimates and budget proposals for the Project for the
forthcoming fiscal year; and (b) proceed thereafter to implement such annual work plan
and budget, with the participation of the Project Implementing Entities, taking into account
such comments as may have been made thereon by the Bank.
-9-
D. 
Memoranda of Agreement
Prior to financing any Project activities by any Project Implementing Entity out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Borrower through MoWR,RD&GR shall enter into, and
thereafter maintain throughout Project implementation, a Memorandum of Agreement with
each such Project Implementing Entity under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank,
which shall include, inter alia, the obligation of each Project Implementing Entity to:
(a) carry out its activities under the Project in accordance with the Project Implementation
Plan, the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and the Environmental Assessment; (b) establish and
thereafter maintain, throughout the period of Project implementation, a Project
Management Unit, with staff in adequate numbers and with qualifications, functions and
resources; (c) (1) maintain a financial management system and prepare financial statements
in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the
Association, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations, resources and
expenditures related to its activities; and (2) have such financial statements audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance with consistently applied
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, and promptly furnish the statements as so
audited to the Recipient and the Association; (d) prepare and furnish to the Recipient and
the Bank all such information as the Recipient or the Association shall reasonably request
relating to the foregoing; and (e) enable the Recipient and the Association to inspect its
activities, operations and any relevant records and documents.
E. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
F. 
Safeguards
The Borrower through MoWR,RD&GR shall, and shall cause each Project Implementing
Entity to:
1. 
carry out the Project in accordance with the agreed Environmental Assessment in
a manner satisfactory to the Association; and
2. 
include as part of the report referred to in Section II.A of this Schedule progress
reports on compliance with environmental safeguard measures under the Project,
detailing measures taken in furtherance of the Environmental Assessment, and of
conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the smooth
implementation of the Environmental Assessment, and remedial measures taken
or required to be taken to address such conditions.
-10-
G. 
Data Sharing; Financial Management; Funds
I. 
By no later than twelve (12) months after the Effective Date, the Borrower through
MoWR,RD&GR shall adopt and thereafter notify to the Project Implementing Entities a
data sharing policy, which shall include an adequate provision ensuring data sharing among
all Project Implementing Entities, in order to assist the integration of data and information.
2. 
By no later than six (6) months after the Effective Date, the Borrower through
MoWR,RD&GR shall establish and thereafter maintain, with the assistance of the Project
Implementing Entities through the period of implementation of the Project, a computerized
financial management system.
3. 
The Borrower through MoWR,RD&GR shall make its best efforts to: (a) provide sufficient
budgetary provisions to implement the Annual Work Plans referred to Section IC of this
Schedule, starting from fiscal year 2017-18; and (b) ensure the release of funds for each
subsequent fiscal year to all the Project Implementation Entities as mutually agreed
between the Borrower through MoWR,RD&GR and the Bank.
Section II. 
Prooect Monitorine Reportine and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower through MoWR,RD&GR shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the
Project and, shall cause each Project Implementing Entity to prepare Project Reports in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis
of indicators agreed with the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one
calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days
after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
I. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower through
MoWR,RD&GR shall, and shall cause each Project Implementing Entity to, prepare and
furnish to the Bank not later than sixty (60) days after the end of each half fiscal year,
interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower through MoWR,RD&GR shall, and shall cause each Project implementing
Entity to, have the Project Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions
of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. 
Each audit of the Project Financial
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower and each Project
Implementing Entity, commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal was
made. The audited Project Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to
the Bank not later than nine (9) months after the end of such period.
Section M. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1 .
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. 
All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to the
corresponding method described in Sections HI and m of the Procurement Guidelines, or
Sections 11, IM, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services
I. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of iternational Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding. may be used for
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) Limited International Bidding (b) National Competitive Bidding,
subject to the additional provisions set forth in the Procurement Plan; (c) Shopping (d)
procurement under Framework Agreements in accordance with procedures which have
been found acceptable to the Bank; (e) Force Account; and (f) Direct Contracting.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality and
Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following methods, other
than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of consultants'
servic6s for those'contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based
-12-
Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; (d) Selection based
on Consultants' Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; and (f)
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the
Selection of Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. For the
avoidance of doubts, the Bank shall be entitled to conduct, at any time, independent
procurement reviews of all the contracts financed under the Loan.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "Disbursement Guidelines for
Investment Project Financing" dated February 2017 as revised from time to time by the
Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance
Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures
in each Category.
-13-
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated (expressed in 
to be Financed
USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Works, goods, non-consulting
services, consultants' services,
Incremental Operating Costs, and 
174,562,500 
50%
Workshops and Training under the
Project
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
(2) Front-end Fee 
437,500 
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
175,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed thirty four million United States Dollars (USD 34,000,000)
may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after April 6, 2016, for Eligible
Expenditures under Category (1).
2. 
The Closing Date is March 31, 2025.
-14-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying:
(a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment
Share for each Principal Payment Date.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each June 15 and December 15
Beginning June 15, 2023 
2.94%
through June 15, 2039
On December 15, 2039 
2.98%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as
of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding
on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall
-15-
be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.
-16-
APPENDIX
Section 1. 
Definitions
1. 
"Annual Work Plan" means each of the plans prepared by each Project Implementing
Entity, approved by MoWR, RD&GR on an annual basis and referred to in Section I.C.3
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which lists activities to be carried out by the Project
Implementing Entity and meets the criteria agreed between the Recipient and the
Association.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated
October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
4. 
"Central 
Implementing 
Agencies" 
means 
the following Borrower's 
agencies:
(a) MoWR,RD&GR; (b) the Central Groundwater Board; (c) the Central Pollution Control
Board; (d) the Central Water Commission: (e) the Central Water and Power Research
Station; (f) the National Institute of Hydrology; (g) the National Remote Sensitive Center,
and (h) the Survey of India; or any successor to any of the foregoing; and "Central
Implementing Agency" means any of those agencies.
5. 
"Central Project Management Units" means the units established in each of the Central
Implementing Agencies referred to in Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 of this Agreement.
6. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January
2011 (revised July 2014).
7. 
"Environmental Assessment" means the Borrower's assessment dated May 2016 and
disclosed at MoWR, RD&GR's website, setting forth the guiding principles, standards and
procedures for: (a) the screening of Project activities and the identification of any adverse
or positive environmental impacts caused, or expected to be caused, on account of their
implementation; (b) the preparation of their prescribed environmental impact assessments
and environmental management plans; and (c) the Borrower's capacity building strategy
for the Project Implementing Entities; as such assessment may be revised, updated or
supplemented from time to time with the prior agreement between the Borrower and the
Bank.
8. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
-17-
9. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the reasonable costs of incremental operating
expenditures incurred during the implementation of the Project, which expenditures would
not have been incurred absent the Project, including, inter alia: office space rental and
utilities; office maintenance and repair, office consumables, vehicles rental, operation and
maintenance; communication, printing and/or publication expenses; staff per diems, field
allowances, travel expenses; bank charges; insurance premia; contractual staff and salaries
of civil servants on full-time deputation.
10. 
"Memorandum of Agreement" means each agreement to be entered between the Borrower
and each Project Implementing Entity in relation to the implementation of the Project in its
respective area of jurisdiction and referred to in Section I.D of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, as such memorandum may be amended from time to time with the prior
concurrence of all the parties thereto and the Bank; and "Memoranda of Agreement" means
all such agreements.
11. 
"MoWR,RD&GR" means the Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and
Ganga Rejuvenation of the Borrower, or any successor thereto.
12. 
"National Project Monitoring Unit" means the unit referred to in Section I.A.1(b) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
13. 
"National Steering Committee" means the committee referred to in Section I-A.1(a) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
14. 
"Participating States" means each of the political subdivisions of the Borrower,
acknowledged in the Borrower's States Reorganization Act of 1956 and/or subsequent
complementary legislation and treaties, which is participating in the implementation of the
Project and has entered into a Memorandum of Agreement; and "Participating State"
means any of those political subdivisions.
15. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
16. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
February 10, 2017, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
17. 
"Project Implementing Entities" means the Participating States, the Central Implementing
Agencies and the River Based Organizations participating in the implementation of the
Project through the signing of its respective Memorandum of Agreement with the
Borrower; and "Project Implementing Entity" means any of those entities.
-18-
18. 
"Project Implementation Plan" means the plan for the Project acceptable to the Bank and
referred to in Section LB of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which sets out, inter alia: (i) the
detailed allocation 
of responsibilities, protocols and procedures among Project
Implementing Entities for the carrying out of the Project; (ii) the protocols and procedures
for managing, procuring, monitoring and evaluating Project activities; and (iii) the model
Memorandum of Agreement; as such manual may be revised from time to time with the
prior concurrence of the Association.
19. 
"Project Management Units" means the units to be established in the Participating States
referred to in Section IA.5(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the units to be
established in the River Basin Organizations referred to in Section I.A.6 of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
20. 
"River Based Organizations" means Bhakra Beas Management Board and Damodar Valley
Corporation or any successor thereto.
21. 
"State Project Steering Committees" means the committees referred to in Section I.A.5(a)
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
22. 
"Workshops and Training" means the reasonable costs of training, workshops and
conferences conducted in the territory of the Recipient and/or overseas, subject to the
Bank's prior agreement, which costs include, inter alia, training institutions' and courses'
fees, logistics expenses, rental of training facilities, purchase and publication of training
materials, and travel and subsistence allowances for trainers and/or trainees.
Section IL 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually
in arrears on each Payment Date."
-19-
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition
of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01
(a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition
of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows in order to include "surcharge":
"68. 
'Loan Payment' means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, interest at the
Default Interest Rate (if any), the Commitment Charge, any surcharge, any prepayment
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and
Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
