OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8722 -TN
Loan Agreement
(Integrated Landscapes Management in Lagging Regions Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
i / 
,2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8722 -TN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
a.2 
, 2017, between REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE H -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of ninety-three million one hundred thousand Euros
(E93,100,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"),
to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, however, that
the interest payable shall in no event be less than zero percent (0%) per annum; and
provided furthermore that, upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount
of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such
amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the
General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan
Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty
days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in
Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
-2-
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest
rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the
Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall implement the Project through MARHP in accordance with the provisions
of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project
is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
UGO has been established, with mandate, terms of reference and composition
acceptable to the Bank.
(b) 
The staff of each RPIT has been duly appointed in accordance with terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank.
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of
this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Development, Investment and
International Cooperation.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Development, Investment and International Cooperation
98, Avenue Mohamed V
Place Pasteur
1002 Tunis
Republic of Tunisia
Facsimile:
216 71 799 069
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at t(,09ojon 
, 
A 
L 
L 
as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: Fcal}el 
Va
Title: 
CA 
s- rs-,AU
~t~d ~Ak'A4j~~ACoo et3pl
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorize? Representative
Name: 
r 
arc 
ce .se 
fde- VY.V
Title: 
e
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve landscape management and access to economic
opportunities for targeted rural communities in North West and Center West regions of Tunisia.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: Laying the foundations for sustainable management of agricultural resources
1 .
Implementation of a program of activities designed to strengthen the quality of agriculture,
forests, and rangelands data bases and information system, including:
(a) 
development of a national forest, rangeland and olive plantation information
system, including national forest, rangeland and olive plantation inventories, a
national 
restoration (afforestation) 
plan, deforestation maps, 
soil 
maps,
biodiversity inventories, and a measurement, reporting and verification (MRV)
system;
(b) 
updating or development of forest and rangeland co-management plans.
2. 
Implementation of a program of activities designed to strengthen existing landscape
development plans for pilot landscapes, expand landscape identification and introduce
integrated planning methodology for the development of new integrated landscapes plans
in targeted regions, using a participatory approach to increase the involvement of poor and
vulnerable groups in the decision making process, including provision of technical
advisory services to:
(a) 
finalize ILDPs in selected priority landscape units;
(b) 
identify and develop ILDPs for new landscape units in the targeted regions;
(c) 
improve market access for small local agricultural producers, through Productive
Alliances and value chain development ("VCD") activities, using, in particular, the
VCD Platform.
3. 
Implementation of a program of activities designed to strengthen the legal and institutional
frameworks governing forests and rangelands resources, including:
(a) 
review and analysis of current legislation governing natural resources, and
formulation of reform proposals for consideration by policy-makers and
legislators;
(b) 
review and strengthening of the institutional framework of MARHP in order to
improve the organizational framework of its general directorates and CRDAs, and,
-6-
in particular, services governing agriculture and natural resources, in order to
ensure better coordination, complementarity, consistency and quality; and
(c) 
promotion of innovation through research and development, in line with specific
requirements of the ILDPs, Productive Alliances and VCD activities, and
provision of competitive grants to support research and development activities best
suited to spur innovation, cluster development and job growth.
Part B: 
Fostering sustainable regional investments
1 .
Provision of support for the implementation of a variety of climate-smart agricultural
practices, including: (i) olive tree plantations; (ii) integrated soil fertility management
techniques; 
(iii) 
livestock 
husbandry 
and 
livestock 
diversification;
(iv) afforestation/reforestation activities; (v) rangeland seeding and natural regeneration;
(vi) collection and cultivation of aromatic and medicinal plants; (vii) thinning and pruning
of forests combined with forest fire protection and biodiversity measures; and (viii) forest
and rangeland certification activities.
2. 
Provision of support for complementary local infrastructure development and sustainable
development of landscapes, through investments to improve access to economic
opportunities for rural communities, and enhance quality of life, including investments
designed to mobilize and enhance water resources, and open up access to isolated
territories, through feeder roads, water crossings, small water reservoirs, small bridges and
culverts, and other infrastructure works.
3. 
Fostering economic growth through provision of matching grants to enhance access to
economic opportunities and markets for intended Beneficiaries, through: (a) co-financing
of investments in Productive Alliances to support the formalization of producer
organizations (POs), bringing together small individual producers and farmers, and helping
them connect to bigger and better markets; and (b) co-financing activities and providing
common services identified under Part A.2 (c) as needed for small farmers, MSMEs and
other Beneficiaries, to reach higher value added markets.
Part C: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
Provision of technical advisory services, and material support and assistance, including
financing of Operating Costs, for the establishment and operations of UGO and RPITs in
the management and coordination of the Project, and handling of technical, administrative,
fiduciary, and safeguard-related matters.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arran2ements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements.
1 
The Borrower shall establish, and thereafter maintain COPIL, UGO and RPITs, and ensure
that the key agencies and institutions involved in the implementation of the Project shall
discharge their respective roles and responsibilities as follows:
(a) 
At central level:
(i) 
COPIL, chaired by the Minister of MARHP or his representative, and
comprising representatives of other concerned ministries and agencies, to
provide strategic guidance and oversight of the Project, facilitate overall
effective implementation of the Project and ensure its consistency with the
Borrower's sectoral policies and other programs, including those focusing
on the North West and Center West regions;
(ii) 
UGO, 
hosted 
in 
DGFIOP, 
to be 
responsible 
for 
day-to-day
implementation, management and coordination of the Project, monitoring
and evaluation of its activities, including: (A) carrying out of procurement
procedures at national level; (B) financial management; (C) management
of special accounts; (D) management of the monitoring and evaluation
system at the national level, including safeguards; (E) preparation of
consolidated Annual Work Programs and Budgets; (F) coordination and
consolidation of procurement and financial management reporting; and
(G) coordination and consolidation of periodic progress reports;
(b) 
At regional level:
(i) 
CRDAs to be responsible for the coordination and monitoring of activities
of the Project at Governorate-level;
(ii) 
RPITs located within the Department for Afforestation and Soil Protection
(DRPS) of CRDA, to be responsible for implementing work programs and
monitoring budgets, and monitoring and evaluating Project activities;
(iii) 
CRs, headed by the Governor and comprising both elected and
Governorate-level representatives, and other concerned officials, to be
responsible for harmonizing the contents of partnership arrangements
proposed under the Project, and facilitating coordination, harmonization
and complementarity with other projects at both Governorate and local
levels.
-8-
(c) 
At local level:
CDL to ensure coordination, elaboration and monitoring of ILDP implementation
through CSOs, GDAs, MSMEs and other stakeholders, and to serve as a formal
consultative body to review and discuss local economic and social development
priorities, local development programs, and projects within its jurisdiction.
2. 
The Borrower shall take steps to ensure that each of the agencies and institutions referred
to in paragraph (1) above shall have available at all times the requisite number of suitably
qualified and experienced dedicated personnel assigned to the Project, along with the
appropriate organizational and technological support, and other facilities and resources
required to facilitate the smooth implementation of the Project and contribute to the
achievement of its objective, including:
(a) 
in the case of UGO, (i) a director and two deputy directors, (ii) a silvo-pastoral
specialist, (iii) a territorial development specialist, (iv) an olive production
specialist, (v) a monitoring and evaluation specialist; (vi) a procurement specialist;
(vii) a financial management specialist, and (viii) an environmental and social
safeguards specialist; and
(b) 
in the case of RPITs, in each CRDA: (i) a forestry specialist, (ii) an agricultural
production specialist, and (iii) consultants as needed in outreach and participation,
procurement, 
financial 
management, 
monitoring 
and 
evaluation, 
and
environmental and social safeguards.
3. 
The Borrower shall promote the creation of CSOs, GDAs and MSMEs, and promote their
active participation in facilitating agricultural development and diversification activities
under the Project, including:
(a) 
in the case of CSOs and GDAs, preparation and implementation of the ILDPs; and
(b) 
in the case of MSMEs, reinforcement of marketing and commercialization
activities, and market access, development of ecotourism activities, and
achievement of commercial arrangements in the form of Productive Alliances
between local organizations and existing national or international buyers.
B. 
Project Operations Manual; Midterm Review
1 
(a) 
The Borrower shall prepare and adopt a Project Operations Manual, in form and
substance acceptable to the Bank, giving details of all operational guidelines and
procedures as shall have been agreed with the Bank for the implementation,
monitoring and supervision of the Project, including:
(i) 
performance indicators, monitoring and evaluation guidelines, and
environmental assessment methodology;
-9-
(ii) 
administrative, accounting and financial management procedures;
(iii) 
procurement and disbursement guidelines;
(iv) 
procedures and eligibility criteria governing Subproject financing; and
(v) 
details of the Safeguard Instruments, as and when they become available;
(b) 
thereafter carry out the Project in accordance with procedures set forth in the
Project Operations Manual, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not
amend or waive any provision thereof, if such amendment of waiver may, in the
opinion of the Bank, materially or adversely affect the implementation of the
Project.
2. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on
an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof;
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank,
on or about January 31, 2021, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof
during the period following such date; and
(c) 
review with the Bank, by April 30, 2021, or such later date as the Bank shall
request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the
achievement of the objective thereof, based 
on the conclusions 
and
recommendations of the said report, and the Bank's views on the matter.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
-10-
D. 
Subprojects.
1. 
The Borrower shall make Sub-financings to Beneficiaries to finance Subprojects in
accordance with eligibility criteria and procedures acceptable to the Bank, and set forth in
the Project Operations Manual, which shall include the following:
(a) 
No Subproject shall be considered for financing under the Project unless it has
been duly screened and appraised, and deemed financially sound, economically
viable and technically feasible, and in full compliance with all relevant social and
environmental standards, and other eligibility criteria set forth in the Project
Operations Manual.
(b) 
No Subproject shall be eligible for financing under the Project if it involves a total
implementation period of more than 18 months or a total cost exceeding the
equivalent of $200,000.
(c) 
The Beneficiary's contribution to the total cost of a Subproject, whether in cash or
in kind, shall not be less than 30 percent.
2. 
The Borrower shall make each Sub-financing under a Sub-financing Agreement with the
respective Beneficiary on terms and conditions approved by the Bank, which shall include
the following:
(a) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Sub-financing shall be made on a
matching grant basis and shall be non-reimbursable.
(b) 
The Borrower shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and those of the
Bank, including the right to:
(i) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the
Sub-financing, or obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount of the
Sub-financing then withdrawn, upon the Beneficiary's failure to perform
any of its obligations under the Sub-financing Agreement; and
(ii) 
require each Beneficiary to:
(A) 
carry out its Subproject with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance 
with 
sound 
technical, 
economic, 
financial,
managerial, environmental and social standards and practices
satisfactory to the Bank, including in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to
recipients of loan proceeds other than the Borrower;
(B) 
provide, promptly as needed, the resources required for the
purpose;
-11-
(C) 
procure the goods, works and services to be financed out of the
Sub-financing in accordance with the provisions of this
Agreement;
(D) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor
and evaluate in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank,
the progress of the Subproject and the achievement of its
objectives;
(E) 
(1) maintain a financial management system and prepare financial
statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting
standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the
Subproject; and (2) at the Bank's or the Borrower's request, have
such financial statements audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, and promptly furnish
the statements as so audited to the Borrower and the Bank;
(F) 
enable the Borrower and the Bank to inspect the Subproject, its
operation and any relevant records and documents; and
(G) 
prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such
information as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably request
relating to the foregoing.
E. 
Safeguards.
1. 
The Borrower shall take steps to monitor on a continuing basis the implementation of the
Safeguard Instruments and ensure that the Project is executed in strict accordance with
such Safeguard Instruments, and, upon the occurrence of any event or condition likely to
interrupt or interfere with the smooth implementation of the Safeguard Instruments, the
Borrower shall act promptly to deal with or address such event or condition, and to inform
the Bank accordingly.
2. 
For the purposes of any Subproject or other activity under the Project, and prior to
implementation thereof, the Borrower shall ensure that any plan, action plan, fact sheet or
other instrument required in terms of any one or more of the Safeguard Instruments, shall
have been duly:
(a) 
prepared in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, and, except as otherwise
agreed with the Bank, submitted to the Bank for review and approval, and
(b) 
thereafter adopted and publicly disclosed.
-12-
3. 
The Borrower shall take all measures necessary on its part to regularly collect, compile,
and submit to the Bank, on a six-monthly basis, reports on the status of compliance with
the Safeguard Instruments, giving details of:
(a) 
measures taken in furtherance of such Safeguard Instruments;
(b) 
any event or condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the smooth
implementation of such Safeguard Instruments; and
(c) 
remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such event or condition.
4. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower shall not amend, waive
or abrogate, or cause to be amended, waived or abrogated, any provision of the Safeguard
Instruments.
Section H. 
Project Monitorin2 Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions, and
on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the Project Operations
Manual. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of the period covered by such
report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare
and furnish to the Bank, not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar
semester, consolidated interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the
semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions
of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall
cover the period of one Fiscal Year. The audited Financial Statements for each such period
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
-13-
Section HI. 
Procurement
All goods, works, non-consulting services and consulting services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in the Procurement Regulations and the provisions
of the Procurement Plan.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank Disbursement
Guidelines for Investment Project Financing" dated February 2017, as revised from time
to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures
in each Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in Euros) 
(exclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non- 
77,040,250 
100%
consulting services,
consulting services and
Operating Costs otherwise
than under Part B.3 of the
Project
(2) Goods, works, non- 
15,827,000 
100% of amounts disbursed
consulting services and
consultants' services for
Subprojects under Part B.3
of the Project
(3) Front-end Fee 
232,750 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 
2.03 
of 
this
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
93,100,000
-14-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is March 29, 2024.
Section V. 
Other Undertakin2s
A. 
Value Chain Development
1. 
The Borrower shall, not later than six (6) months after the Effective Date, establish a VCD
platform, consisting of a team of suitably qualified and experienced VCD specialists,
whose mandate, composition and terms of reference shall be acceptable to the Bank, or
make other arrangements acceptable to the Bank, capable of providing, on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank, a package of VCD-related support services required
under Part A.2 (c) of the Project, as more fully described in the Project Operations Manual,
including: (a) identification of higher value added market segments for the targeted
products, (b) identification of constraints and market-failures that hinder access to such
markets, (c) elaboration and preparation of a strategy and program of actions and measures
to address such constraints and market-failures, and (d) identification of champions and
actors involved or to be involved in the implementation of such strategy and program of
actions.
B. 
Annual Work Program and Budget
1. 
Beginning in the Fiscal Year during which the Loan becomes effective, the Borrower shall,
not later than November 30 in each Fiscal Year, prepare and furnish to the Bank, a proposed
annual work program and budget ("Annual Work Program and Budget") for the next
following Fiscal Year, giving details of: (a) a time table of programs and activities
scheduled for implementation in the course of that next following Fiscal Year; and (b) the
estimated cost of each such program or activity, along with the budget line item and source
of funding corresponding to each program or activity.
2. 
The Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on each such proposed Annual Work
Program and Budget, and proceed thereafter to carry out the Annual Work Program and
Budget, taking into consideration any comments that shall have been made thereon by the
Bank.
3. 
No program or activity shall be supported under the Project or funded out of the proceeds
of the Loan other than those which are included in the Annual Work Program and Budget.
Except with the prior and written concurrence of the Bank, the Annual Work Program and
Budget shall not be waived, amended or otherwise modified, whether in whole or in part,
so as to limit or exclude any of the mutually agreed programs or activities, or to introduce
new programs or activities.
-15-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying:
(a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment
Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary,
to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
Mayl5,2023 
2%
November 15, 2023 
2%
May15, 2024 
0%
November 15, 2024 
0%
May15, 2025 
0%
November 15, 2025 
0%
Mayl5, 2026 
2%
November 15, 2026 
2%
Mayl5,2027 
0%
November 15, 2027 
0%
Mayl5, 2028 
2%
November 15, 2028 
2%
Mayl5,2029 
3%
November 15, 2029 
3%
Mayl5,2030 
2%
November 15, 2030 
2%
Mayl5,2031 
2%
November 15, 2031 
2%
Mayl5, 2032 
4%
November 15, 2032 
4%
Mayl5, 2033 
3%
November 15, 2033 
3%
Mayl5, 2034 
2%
November 15, 2034 
2%
Mayl5,2035 
2%
November 15, 2035 
2%
Mayl5,2036 
2%
November 15, 2036 
2%
Mayl5, 2037 
2%
-16-
November 15, 2037 
2%
Mayl5, 2038 
2%
November 15, 2038 
2%
Mayl5, 2039 
2%
November 15, 2039 
2%
Mayl5, 2040 
2%
November 15, 2040 
2%
Mayl5, 2041 
2%
November 15, 2041 
2%
Mayl5, 2042 
2%
November 15, 2042 
2%
Mayl5, 2043 
2%
November 15, 2043 
2%
Mayl5, 2044 
2%
November 15, 2044 
2%
Mayl5, 2045 
2%
November 15, 2045 
2%
Mayl5, 2046 
2%
November 15, 2046 
2%
Mayl5, 2047 
2%
November 15, 2047 
2%
May15, 2048 
2%
November 15, 2048 
1%
Mayl5, 2049 
1%
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as
of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date[, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
-17-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding
on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall
be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (a) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating
to the Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
-18-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Annual Work Program and Budget" means the Annual Work Program and Budget
referred to in Section V.B. 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated
October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
3. 
"Abbreviated Resettlement Action Plan" or "ARAP" means Abbreviated Resettlement
Action Plan, a RAP prepared and issued in abbreviated form, having regard to the reduced
risk or perceived magnitude of potential impact and hardship to PAPs resulting from the
Project.
4. 
"Beneficiary" means the beneficiary of a Sub-financing, and party to a Sub-financing
Agreement.
5. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
6. 
"CDL" means Conseil de D6veloppement Local, a local development council.
7. 
"COPIL" means Comiti de Pilotage, the Steering Committee located within MARHP.
8. 
"CSO" means a civil society organization.
9. 
"CR" means the Conseil Rfgional, the Govemorate-level regional council.
10. 
"CRDA" means Commissariat Rigional pour le Dveloppement Agricole, the regional
command center for agricultural development located within each of the Governorates.
11. 
"DGFIOP" means Direction Gin6rale du Financement, des Investissements et des
Organismes Professionnels, the General Directorate of Funding Investments and
Professional Organizations of MARHP.
12. 
"Environmental and Social Management Fact Sheet" or "ESM-FS" means an EMSP
prepared and issued in simplified form, having regard to the reduced risk or perceived
magnitude of potential adverse social and environmental impacts arising under the Project.
13. 
"Environmental 
and 
Social Management 
Framework" 
or "ESMF" means the
Environmental and Social Management Framework, dated January 16, 2017, issued by or
on behalf of the Borrower and thereafter publicly disclosed, providing a systematic analysis
of potential impacts on the human and biophysical environment associated with the Project,
an assessment of the risks and likelihood of potential adverse social and environmental
-19-
impacts, and a checklist of plans and measures designed to prevent, manage or mitigate
such potential adverse impacts.
14. 
"Environmental and Social Management Plan" or "ESMP" means an Environmental and
Social Management Plan, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, adopted or to be
adopted by the Borrower in respect of one or more Subprojects, giving details of measures
consistent with the ESMF, and designed to prevent, manage or mitigate potential adverse
social and environmental impacts associated with the Project, together with particulars of
proposed institutional, monitoring and reporting arrangements required to ensure proper
implementation of, and regular feedback on compliance with, the ESMP,
15. 
"Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year.
16. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
17. 
"GDA" means Groupe de D6veloppement Agricole, an Agricultural Development Group.
18. 
"Governorate" means an administrative subdivision of the Borrower's territory.
19. 
"Governor" means the chief executive officer of a Governorate.
20. 
"ELDP" means integrated landscape development plan.
21. 
"MARHP" means Ministre de l'Agriculture, des Ressources Hydrauliques et de la Piche,
the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources, and Fishing.
22. 
"MSME" means a micro, small and medium-size enterprise.
23. 
"Operating Costs" means the incremental operating costs arising under the Project on
account of local contractual support staff salaries, employment benefits, travel
expenditures and other travel-related allowances; equipment rental and maintenance;
vehicle operation, maintenance and repair; office rental and maintenance, materials and
supplies; and utilities, media information campaigns and communications' expenses.
24. 
"Process Framework" or "PF" means the Process Framework, dated January 16, 2017,
issued by or on behalf of the Borrower and thereafter publicly disclosed, setting forth the
policies, procedures and processes put in place to avoid or minimize negative impacts on
PAPs resulting from the involuntary restriction of access to or use of any protected area,
including a program of proposed actions to compensate any loss of livelihood or source of
income, or other negative impact, resulting from such involuntary restriction of access to
or use of any protected area.
25. 
"Process Framework Action Plan" or "PFAP" means a Process Framework Action Plan, in
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, adopted or to be adopted by the Borrower in
respect of one or more Subprojects, giving details of measures consistent with the PF, and
-20-
designed to facilitate the compensation of PAPs, including the magnitude of loss or
negative impact, proposed compensation arrangements, and budget and cost estimates,
together with particulars of proposed institutional, monitoring and reporting arrangements
required to ensure proper implementation of, and regular feedback on compliance with, the
PFAP.
26. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
February 14, 2017, and provided for under Section IV of the Procurement Regulations, as
the same may be updated from time to time in agreement with the Bank.
27. 
"Procurement Regulations" means the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for
Borrowers under Investment Project Financing", dated July 1, 2016.
28. 
"Productive Alliance" means a brokerage function designed to pair together local producer
organizations, on the one hand, and existing national or international buyers, on the other,
in order to facilitate commercial activity between them, using formal contractual
agreements or ad hoc arrangements readily capable of being formalized.
29. 
"Project Affected Person" or "PAP" means any person or group of persons who owns or
occupies land, property or other assets or structures, which are adversely affected by the
Project, or whose livelihood, business, trade or other occupation is adversely affected as a
result of the Project, and who is declared accordingly eligible to compensation or other
assistance under a RAP, ARAP or PFAP.
30. 
"Project Operations Manual" means the Project Operations Manual referred to in Section
I.B.1 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
31. 
"Resettlement Action Plan"f or "RAP" means a Resettlement Action Plan, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank, adopted or to be adopted by the Borrower in respect of
one or more Subprojects, giving details of measures consistent with the RPF, and designed
to facilitate the compensation and resettlement of PAPs, including the magnitude of
displacement, proposed compensation and resettlement arrangements, and budget and cost
estimates, together with particulars of institutional, monitoring and reporting arrangements
required to ensure proper implementation of, and regular feedback on compliance with, the
ARAP.
32. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RFP" means the Resettlement Policy Framework,
dated January 16, 2017, issued by or on behalf of the Borrower and thereafter publicly
disclosed, describing a program of actions, measures and policies designed to avoid or
minimize any adverse impact or hardship to PAPs as a result of the Project or, in the event
that such adverse impact or hardship cannot be avoided altogether, provide for the
compensation and resettlement of such PAPs, as may be appropriate.
33. 
"RPIT" means the Regional Project Implementation Team located within CRDA.
-21-
34. 
"Safeguard Instruments" means any or all of the EMSF, ESMP, ESM-FS, RPF, RAP,
ARAP, PF, PFAP, and other safeguard instruments derived therefrom or adopted pursuant
thereto.
35. 
"Sub-financing" means a sub-financing made or to be made out of the proceeds of the Loan
to finance a Subproject.
36. 
"Sub-financing Agreement" means an agreement providing for a Sub-financing.
37. 
"Subproject" means an investment activity or set of activities referred to under Parts A.3
(c) and B of the Project, and financed or to be financed out of the proceeds of a Sub-
financing.
38. 
"UGO" means Uniti de Gestion par Objectif the Project Management Unit by Objective,
located within MARHP.
39. 
"VCD" means value chain development.
40. 
"VCD Platform" means the VCD Platform or other arrangements referred to in Section
V.A. 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually
in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition
of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly:
-22-
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01
(a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition
of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and
Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
