OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8689-AL
Loan Agreement
(Competitiveness Development Policy Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
FekRucy 10 
,2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8689-AL
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
Fe ooayjC 
40 
, 2017, entered into between
REPUBLIC 
OF ALBANIA 
("Borrower") 
and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing
financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The
Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (i) the actions which
the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in Section l.A
of Schedule I to this Agreement; and (ii) the Borrower's maintenance of an adequate
macroeconomic policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of sixty-five million eight hundred
thousand Euro (EUR 65,800,000) ("Loan").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
in accordance with Section II of Schedule I to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided,
however, that the interest payable shall in no event be less than zero percent (0%)
per annum. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan
-2-
Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of
thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as
provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March I and September I in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 of Section II of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To
this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either
party, exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank for its review and comment, a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request; and
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program
or any action taken under the Program including any action specified in
Section I of Schedule I to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
significant part of it, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V -EFFECTIVENESS; 
TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, the
Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the
-3-
Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework.
5. 02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Bulevardi "Deshmoret e Kombit" No. 3
Tirana, Albania
Facsimile:
355 42228494
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at Tirana, Republic of Albania, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
By
Authorized Represnav
Name:- 
tip 13 
T-7
Title: 
nF(N<Thk 
OF,Iqf RH 
t
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
H/6 
W 
-toLDg4e4 U
Title: Coungy D;Pcok 6CCV E
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I. 
Actions under the Pro2ram
A. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
1. 
Approval of an investment policy statement outlining the Borrower's commitment
and action plan to develop a comprehensive investment law compatible with
international best practice, as evidenced by the Decision of the Council of
Ministers No. 579 "On the approval of the Guidance on Investment Policy of the
Government" adopted on August 3, 2016, published in the Official Gazette No.
153 dated August 12, 2016.
2. 
Adoption of measures to establish the secretariat for addressing grievances of
investors, as evidenced by the Order of the Minister of Economic Development,
Tourism, Trade and Entrepreneurship No. 6299 "On necessary actions to create
the mechanism for addressing investors' grievances in AIDA" issued on August 3,
2016.
3. 
Adoption of a Territorial Planning and Development Decision outlining the
guidelines for the new constructions permits process and introducing the new
online platform for issuing construction permits, as evidenced by the letter dated
February 10, 2016 (Protocol No. 780/1) issued by the Minister of Urban
Development to all municipalities in the Borrower's territory and other
stakeholders in the construction sector.
4. 
Adoption of new connections to the electricity distribution system, as evidenced
by Decision No. 166 "On the Regulation of New Connections on the Distribution
Network" issued by ERE dated October 10, 2016, published through ERE website
http://ere.gov.al/doc/VENDIM No. 166 2016.pdf.
5. 
Enactment of the law merging the Borrower's National Registration Center and
the National Licensing Center, as evidenced by Law 13 1/2015 dated November
26, 2015, published in the Official Gazette No. 215 dated December 14, 2015.
6. 
(i) establishment of the Market Surveillance Inspectorate as evidenced by the
Decision of the Council of Ministers No. 36, dated January 20, 2016 "On the
Creation, Organization and Functioning of the Market Surveillance State
Inspectorate," published in the Official Gazette No. 10 dated February 1, 2016; and
(ii) approval of the organization structure of the Market Surveillance Inspectorate,
as evidenced by Prime Minister's Order No. 86 dated May 16, 2016 "Order of the
-6-
Prime Minister on the Approval of the organizational structure of the State Market
Surveillance Inspectorate".
7. 
Adoption of a risk management policy and restructuring of the Risk Management
Unit within the NFA, as evidenced by the Risk Management Policy adopted by
NFA in May 2016.
8. 
Adoption of the Local Clearance Instruction incorporating best practices
clarifying: (a) criteria relating to grant of a local customs clearance authorization;
(b) procedural actions to be taken from the moment the goods arrive at the border
until they are released; and (c) duties of the economic operator, as evidenced by
Instruction No. 10564 issued by the Directorate General of Customs dated 22 April
2016 "Concerning simplified procedures, customs clearance in the premises of the
economic operator".
9. 
Reduction of number of free freight storage days at the port of Durres by amending
port regulations as evidenced by Storage Regulation No. 1568 dated July 14, 2015
issued jointly by the Minister of Transport and Infrastructure and the Minister of
Finance on September 16, 2015 published in the Official Gazette No. 162 of 2015.
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
may specify by notice to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the
Front-end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the
Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan
Allocated
(expressed in Euro)
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 
65,635,500
(2) Front-end Fee 
164,500
TOTAL AMOUNT
-7-
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank
is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with
the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
D. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into
an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and
2. 
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan
into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower's
budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
E. 
Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any
time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded
Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an
amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to
the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
F. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is January 31, 2018.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a
Percentage)
On each March Iand September 1
Beginning March 1, 2022 
3.13%
through March 1, 2037
On September 1, 2037 
2.97%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
-9-
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
- 10-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
.
"AIDA" means Albanian Investment Development Agency established further to
Law No. 10303 published in the Official Gazette No.105 dated August 11, 2010.
2. 
"ERE" means Albanian Energy Regulator Authority established further to Law
No. 43/2015 dated April 30, 2015 "For Power Sector" published in the Official
Gazette No. 87 dated May 28, 2015 and Law No. 9946 dated June 30, 2008 "For
Natural Gas Sector" published in the Official Gazette No. 114 dated July 22, 2008.
3. 
"Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
or grant;
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986)
(the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions
to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item
112 
Alcoholic beverages
121 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco refuse
122 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525 
Radioactive and associated materials
667 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728 
728.4 
Tobacco processing machinery
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group
metals (except watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares (including
set gems)
971 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores and
concentrates)
-II-
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
agreements to which the Borrower is a party);
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United
Nations; and
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.
4. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
5. 
"NFA" means National Food Agency, the Borrower's agency for the oversight of
food established further to Law No. 10433 dated June 16, 2011 as amended
through January 28, 2008.
6. 
"Program" means: (a) the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty set forth or referred
to in the letter dated December 6, 2016 from the Borrower to the Bank declaring
the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting
assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its execution; as well
as, or including, (b) the actions set forth in Section I of Schedule I to this
Agreement.
7. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of Schedule I to this Agreement.
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1 .
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
- 12-
2. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.
3. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article 
11 are renumbered
accordingly.
4. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan
amount at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement
(the "Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective
dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan
Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-
annually in arrears on each Payment Date."
5. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally) and 5.09 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the subsequent
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.
6. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
7. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above)
is modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records."
8. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above)
is modified to read as follows:
- 13-
"Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."
9. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above.
10. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the remaining paragraphs
accordingly:
19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified
in the Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
1. 
Renumbered paragraph 37 (originally paragraph 36) of the Appendix ("Eligible
Expenditure") is modified to read as follows:
"37. 
"Eligible Expenditure" means any use to which the Loan is put in
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
pursuant to the Loan Agreement."
12. 
Renumbered paragraph 44 (originally paragraph 43) of the Appendix ("Financial
Statements") is deleted in its entirety.
13. 
In paragraph 48 of the Appendix, the definition of'"Front-end Fee" is modified by
replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
14. 
In paragraph 67 of the Appendix, the definition of the term "Loan Payment" is
modified to read as follows:
"67. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties
to the Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions,
including (but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance,
interest, the Front-end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default
Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a
Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread
Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount
payable by the Borrower."
- 14-
15. 
In paragraph 72 of the Appendix, the definition of "Payment Date" is modified by
deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and Commitment Charge are" after
the word "interest".
16. 
The defined term "Project" in paragraph 75 of the Appendix is modified to read
"Program" and its definition is modified to read as follows (and all references to
"Project" throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to
"Program"):
"75. 
"Program" means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement
in support of which the Loan is made."
