OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8811-IN
Loan Agreement
(Uttar Pradesh Pro-Poor Tourism Development Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8811-IN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between INDIA ("Borrower') and
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT
("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE 1 -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of forty million Dollars
($40,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in
Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as
may apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure
Limit (as said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (bXii) and (b)(iii) of this
Section), the Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of one
-2-
half of one percent (0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess Exposure
Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for each said
day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if any) shall be
payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set
forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during
which the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit,
the product of:
(A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the ratio of all (or, if
the Bank so determines, a portion) of the Loan to the aggregate
amount of all (or the equivalent portions) of the loans made by the
Bank to the Borrower, and to other borrowers guaranteed by the
Borrower that are also subject to an exposure surcharge, as said
excess and ratio are reasonably determined from time to time by
the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the
Bank's financial exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded,
would subject the Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined
from time to time by the Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total
financial exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by
the Bank.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall facilitate the Project to be carried out by Uttar Pradesh in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, Schedule
2 to this Agreement and the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is any of the following officials: the Secretary,
Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under
-3-
Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs of the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower.
5.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower's
address is:
Secretary
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance, Government of India
North Block
New Delhi 1l0001, India, and
(b) the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile: 
E-mail:
91-11-2309 2247 
secy-dea@nic.in
5.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank's address
is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
E-mail:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
jahmad@worldbank.org
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
INDIA
By
Auded Representative
Name: SA,i~ 
KC4~Ar- 
XPC80~
Title: J0/A/T 544 ?~9!
Date: 60446J 
.c , 4 .29 -7
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Repree
Name: 
46A 
• 
.O,I&jST
Title: kr417^)t 
COC/Aé7>f &/e4 
Date: A€c~M£9 J& A(
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to increase tourism-related benefits for local
communities in Targeted Destinations.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Destination Plannine and Governance
Testing new approaches and establishing necessary institutional structures,
policies and coordination mechanisms for bringing together the public and private
sectors and local communities to develop effective destination-level tourism
planning and governance through: (a) the participatory formulation of integrated
destination-level tourism plans for the Targeted Destinations; (b) support to the
refinement of branding and promotion strategies for the Targeted Destinations; (c)
support to public-private dialogue and the strengthening of public, private and
community institutions involved in the tourism sector for coordinated destination
management; (d) the improvement of the state's visitor information system; and
(e) the provision of training to individuals and groups employed in the tourism
sector.
Part 2: Tourist Products Development and Maagement
Enhancing the tourist experience while simultaneously contributing to improve
local living conditions and livelihood opportunities by transforming existing
tourist attractions into tourist products that incorporate local communities through:
(a) the enhancement of public areas and surroundings of main attractions and their
adjacent communities; (b) the provision of interpretation and information on the
targeted destinations; (c) the development, rehabilitation and/or diversification of
destination level-products and activities; (d) the provision of facilities and services
for tourists and local communities alike; and (e) the improvement of access to main
sites and tourist products and their adjacent communities.
Part 3: Support to Local Economic Development
Improving linkages of those involved in the productive and creative economies
with the tourism value chain in the Targeted Destinations through: (a) the mapping
of local productive and creative industries and the provision of support to business
development and tourism service providers; (b) the provision of training,
information, tools and infrastructure for business development, production and
marketing within the tourism value chain; (c) the enhancement and/or
-6-
diversification of tourism-related skills; and (d) the promotion of locally produced
goods linked to the tourism value chain.
Part 4: Project Manatement
Provision of necessary technical and advisory support for carrying out Project's
implementation, management and coordination activities through, inter alia: (a)
the provision of support to the Implementing Entities; (b) the establishment and
operation of the State Project Coordination Unit and Technical Support Units; (c)
the carrying out of Project monitoring and evaluation activities; and (d) carrying
out Project communication activities.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arranements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds
of the Loan available to Uttar Pradesh in accordance with the Borrower's standard
arrangements for developmental assistance to the States of India.
Section H. 
Procurement
A. 
General
I. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts,
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections I, 111, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) Limited International
-8-
Bidding; (b) National Competitive Bidding subject to the additional provisions
agreed to from time to time between the Borrower and the Bank and referred to in
the Procurement Plan; (c) Shopping; (d) procurement under Framework
Agreements in accordance with procedures which have been found acceptable to
the Bank (e) Direct Contracting; (f) Force Account; and (g) Procurement from
United Nations agencies.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; (d) Single-source Selection of consulting firms;
(e) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for
the Selection of Individual Consultants; and (f) Single-source procedures for the
Selection of Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section M. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
1 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article 11 of the General Conditions and
in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the
Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible
Expenditures; and (b) pay: (i) the Front-end Fee; and (ii) each Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar premium; in the amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the
percentage set forth against each Category of the following table:
-9-
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) 
financed
(Inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non- 
39,900,000 
700/
consulting services,
consulting services,
Training and Operating
Costs for the Project
(2) Front-end Fee 
100,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(3) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar 
Section 4.05 (c) of the
premium 
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
40,000,000
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawal shall be made
for payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $8,000,000 may be made for payments made prior
to this date but on or after January 1, 2017, for Eligible Expenditures.
3. 
The Closing Date is December 30,2022.
-10-
SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share").
Level Principal Repayments
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
On each June 15 and December 15
Beginning June 15, 2023
through December 15, 2035 
3.7%
On June 15, 2036 
3.8%
-11-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Affected Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of the Project,
have experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused
by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter,
(ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of
livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to another location; or (b) the
involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected areas,
resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such persons; and "Affected
Person" means any of such Affected Persons.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section 1II.1 of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
4. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
5. 
"Department of Tourism" means the Department of Tourism of Uttar Pradesh, or
any successor thereto.
6. 
"Empowered Committee" means the committee referred to in Section I.A.1(a) of
the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
7. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" means the framework, dated
June 2015 and updated in September 2017, adopted by Uttar Pradesh, and
satisfactory to the Bank, which sets forth policies and procedures for the
preliminary screening of environmental and social impacts of any activities
(including Sub-projects) identified during Project implementation, and for the
preparation of Safeguard Assessments and Plans, as said framework may be
amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to said framework-
8. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project
-12-
Financing", dated July 14, 2017, with the modifications set forth in Section II of
this Appendix.
9. 
"Implementing Entities" means collectively the following entities of Uttar
Pradesh: (a) the Agra Development Authority, (b) the Mathura-Vrindavan
Development Authority; and (c) any other entity agreed to in writing among the
Borrower, Uttar Pradesh and the Bank; and "Implementing Entity" means any of
such Implementing Entities.
10. 
"Memorandum of Understanding" means each agreement referred to in Section
LB.1 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement acceptable to the Bank, to be
entered into between Uttar Pradesh, through the Department of Tourism, and the
respective Implementing Entity for the carrying out of Sub-projects, as said
memorandum may be amended from time to time with the prior written agreement
of the Bank.
11. 
"Operating Costs" means the reasonable costs of incremental expenditures
incurred by Uttar Pradesh on account of Project implementation, management and
monitoring, including, inter alia: (a) costs of incremental contractual staff salaries
(other than consultants) and civil servants deputed to the Project; (b) dissemination
of Project related information; (c) office rental, office maintenance and repair,
leasing, operation and maintenance of equipment; (d) office supplies and utilities;
(e) travel and boarding/lodging allowances, office consumables, vehicles rental,
operation and maintenance costs, printing and/or publication expenses, staff per
diens, and field allowances; (f) leasing, operation and maintenance of vehicles;
(g) advertising and communication expenses; (h) bank charges; and (i) insurance
premia.
12. 
"Operations Manual" means the manual referred to in Section 1.C.1 of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement, acceptable to the Bank, which sets out the
procedures for Project implementation, including a financial manual and a
procurement manual, as such manual may be revised from time to time with the
prior agreement of the Bank.
13. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
14. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
November 15, 2017, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
-13-
15. 
"Project Agreement" means the agreement entered into between the Bank and the
Project Implementing Entity of the same date of this Agreement for purposes of
carrying out the implementation of the Project.
16. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means the State of Uttar Pradesh (also referred to
as Uttar Pradesh in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement).
17. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" means the framework included as Annex 10 in
the Environmental and Social Framework, setting forth the general terms and
conditions for carrying out any social, resettlement and rehabilitation activities
under the Project, including identification, assessment and mitigation of potential
social impacts arising from the Project, carrying out consultations, processing and
redressing grievances, monitoring related impacts, and, if required, resettlement
and rehabilitation action plans and other development and entitlement plans for
Affected Persons, as such framework may be revised from time to time, with the
prior written agreement of the Bank.
18. 
"Safeguard Assessments and Plans" means any environmental and/or social
assessment, and/or any environmental management plan and/or resettlement action
plan to be prepared by the Borrower in accordance with the Environmental and
Social Framework and/or the Resettlement Policy Framework, as applicable, and
the provisions of Section I.D of the Schedule to the Project Agreement; and
"Safeguard Assessments and Plans" means, collectively, all such assessments and
plans.
19. 
"Signature Date" means the latest of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the
date of the Loan Agreement" in the General Conditions.
20. 
"State Project Coordination Unit" means the unit referred to in Section I.A.2 of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.
21. 
"Steering Committee" means the committee referred to in Section LA. 1(b) of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.
22. 
"Sub-project" means an eligible set of activities approved by Uttar Pradesh in
accordance with the criteria set forth of the Operations Manual and acceptable to
the Bank, which will be carried out by an Implementing Entity within its respective
Targeted Destination pursuant to a Memorandum of Understanding.
23. 
"Targeted Destinations" means collectively the following Project targeted areas
located in Uttar Pradesh: (a) Agra; (b) Braj Region; and (c) Buddhist circuit; or
any other area meeting the requirements of the Operations Manual and agreed to
-14-
in writing among the Borrower, Uttar Pradesh and the Bank, and "Targeted
Destination" means any of such Targeted Destinations.
24. 
"Technical Support Units" means the units referred to in Section 1.A.3 of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement; and "Technical Support Unit" means, any of
such units.
25. 
"Training" means: (a) reasonable travel, room board, and per diem expenditures
incurred by the trainers and trainees in connection with their training, including
workshops and study tours; (b) course fees; (c) training facility rentals; and (d)
training material preparation, acquisition, reproduction and distribution expenses,
incurred on account of Project implementation.
Section H. 
Modifications to the General Comditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
Section 5.13 (Procurement) is deleted in its entirety and the remaining section in
Article V is renumbered accordingly.
2. 
Paragraphs 84 (Procurement Plan) and 85 (Procurement Regulations) in the
Appendix are deleted in their entirety and the subsequent paragraphs are
renumbered accordingly.
