OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8755-IN
Loan Agreement
(Andhra Pradesh 24x7 - Power for All Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
Ju Metee 
,2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8755-IN
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
d&Ah 
PU 
, 2017, between INDIA ("Borrower") and
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT
("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE I -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred and forty million United
States dollars (USD 240,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to
time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section
2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge,payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, however, that the interest payable shall in no event be less than zero
percent (0%) per annum; and provided further that upon a Conversion of all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower
during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance
with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance
remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty
-2-
days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as
provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.09. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure
Limit (as said tems are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of
this Section), the Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of
one half of one percent (0.5%) per annum of the Allocated 
Excess
Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for
-3-
each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if any)
shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set
forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during
which the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit,
the product of: (A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the
ratio of all (or, if the Bank so determines, a portion) of the Loan
to the aggregate amount of all (or the equivalent portions) of the
loans made by the Bank to the Borrower and to other borrowers
guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an exposure
surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined from
time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the
Bank's financial exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded,
would subject the Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined
from time to time by the Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total
financial exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by
the Bank.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project Implementing Entity cause the
Implementing Agencies to carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions
of Article V of the General Conditions and the Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that any of
the Implementing Agencies' Legal Frameworks has been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability
of any of the Implementing Agencies to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
-4-
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the
event specified in Section 4.01 (above) of this Agreement occurs and is continuing
for a period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the
Borrower for its rectification.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
the Subsidiary Agreements have been executed on behalf of the Project
Implementing Entity and the Implementing Agencies, and all conditions
precedents to their effectiveness have been met; and
(b) 
the Co-financing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to
make withdrawals under it (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement)
have been fulfilled.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is any of the following officials, acting severally:
the Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary,
or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of
Finance of the Borrower.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Secretary
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
Government of India
North Block
New Delhi 110 001, India
Facsimile:
+91 (11) 23092883
-5-
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Facsimile:
1-202-477-6391
AGREED at 
, India, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
Byy 
_ 
_
Authorized Representative
Name: 
9A-1 
A 
4 Poo-
Title: 
ID*/4AJ-
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 1H 
" 
A
Title: AttlA)4 
6000-~R' be-CcrtW, 
/)i,
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to increase the delivery of electricity to customers
and to improve the operational efficiency and system reliability in distribution of electricity
in selected areas in Andhra Pradesh.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Component 1: Power Transmission System Strengthening
Constructing, refurbishing and/or upgrading 220kV, 132 kV, 66 kV and 33 kV
power transmission and sub-transmission lines and associated sub-stations, to
strengthen and augment the power system capacity.
Component 2: Smart Grid Development in Urban Areas
1. 
Replacing consumers' analog (electromechanical) power metering equipment in
selected cities with smart (digital) meters and supporting (backend) ICT
infrastructure.
2. 
Replacing overhead power lines in selected cities with an underground electrical
cable network.
3. 
Setting up/installing supervisory control and data acquisition systems in the
distribution substations in selected cities/towns.
4. 
Constructing, refurbishing and/or upgrading 33 kV and 11 kV distribution lines,
as well as associated sub-stations to strengthen the distribution.
Component 3: Distribution System Strengthening in Rural Areas
1. 
Replacing low voltage distribution network with a high voltage distribution
system, and installing small distribution transformers, particularly in the Districts
of Anantapur, Kurnool, East Godavari, and West Godavari in Andhra Pradesh.
2. 
Constructing distribution lines and substations in order to strengthen and augment
the power capacity of distribution infrastructure in rural areas of Andhra Pradesh.
Component 4: Technical AssistanceforInstitutional Development and Capacity Building
1. 
Improving project management capabilities and commercial performance of
APEPDCL and APSPDCL through: (i) developing, upgrading and integrating
-7-
APEPDCL's and APSPDCL's ICT infrastructure; (ii) hiring, if and when required
by the Bank, a project management consultant to assist both companies with
contract management and supervision; and (iii) strengthening their institutional
capacity and human resources' skills in the core areas of utility management and
operation.
2. 
Enhancing the engineering capabilities of APTRANSCO through: (i) investing in
software (tower spotting, design of line/substation) and testing instruments; and
(ii) supporting capacity building activities for APTRANSCO's officials.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section 1. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
On-lending Arrangements
1. 
To facilitate the Project Implementing Entity's carrying out the Project through the
Implementing Agencies, the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan
available to the Project Implementing Entity in accordance with the Borrower's
standard arrangements for developmental assistance to the states of India.
2. 
Notwithstanding paragraph I above, in the event that any provision of this
Agreement, including the instructions that the Bank shall have specified by notice
to the Borrower pursuant to Section IV.A. 1 of this Schedule, were to be found
inconsistent with the Borrower's standard arrangements for development
assistance to the States of India, the provisions of this Agreement and related
instructions shall govern.
3. 
The Borrower shall protect its own interests and the interests of the Bank to
accomplish the purpose of the Loan.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
Section U. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
I. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and shall cause
the Project Implementing Entity to ensure that the Implementing Agencies prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such
report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
-9-
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare, through the Implementing
Agencies, and furnish to the Bank not later than sixty (60) days after the end of
each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports ("IUFRs") for the Project
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall, and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to, ensure that
the Implementing Agencies have the Financial Statements for their Respective
Parts of the Project audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b)
of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the
period of one fiscal year of the Borrower, the Project Implementing Entity and the
Implementing Agencies, commencing with the fiscal year in which the first
withdrawal was made. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall
be furnished to the Bank not later than nine (9) months after the end of such period.
Section m. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections I, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
-10-
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) Limited International
Bidding; (b) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set
forth in the Procurement Plan; (c) Shopping; (d) procurement under Framework
Agreements in accordance with procedures which have been found acceptable to
the Bank; (e) Direct Contracting; (f) Force Account; (g) Procurement from UN
agencies; and (h) Procurement under Public Private Partnership Arrangements in
accordance with procedures which have been found acceptable to the Bank.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; (d) Selection based on Consultants'
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Selection of UN
agencies; (g) Selection of consultants under Indefinite Delivery Contract or Price
Agreement; (h) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants; and (i) Single-source
procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article Il of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Investment Project Financing" dated
February 2017, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable
to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures
as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
- 11 -
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Percentage of Eligible
Amount of the Loan
Expenditures to be
Category 
Allocated
financed
(expressed in USD)
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non-
consulting services,
consultants' services,
and Training
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
(2) Front-end Fee 
600,000 
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions.
(3) Interest Rate Cap or 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar 
0 
Section 2.08(c) of this
premium 
Agreement.
TOTAL AMOUNT 
240,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed USD 48,000,000 may be
made for payments made prior to this date but on or after January 1, 2017, for
Eligible Expenditures under Category (1).
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2022.
C. 
Ineligible Expenditures
The following shall not be Eligible Expenditures and the Borrower shall ensure,
and cause the Project Implementing Entity and the Implementing Agencies to
ensure that the following expenditures are financed exclusively out of the Project
Implementing Entity's or the Implementing Agencies' own resources, as the case
may be, and not out of the proceeds of the Loan, namely:
(a) 
all land acquisition required for the purpose of the Project;
-12-
(b) 
any compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation payment to Affected
Persons in accordance with the provision of the RAP(s) and/or CPTD;
(c) 
any compensatory afforestation payments, including as required by the
ESMF;
(d) 
any interest during construction;
(e) 
any retention money deducted from contract payments, and not released
by Closing Date; and
(f) 
any expenditures objected or considered ineligible by the independent
auditors in the Project's Financial Statements prepared pursuant to Section
II.B.3 (above) of this Schedule and/or Section II.B.3 of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement.
-13 -
SCHEDULE3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each Februaryl5 and August 15
Beginning August 15, 2022
through August 15, 2035 
3.57%
On February 15, 2036 
3.61%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
- 14 -
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either- (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
- 15 -
APPFNDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
I. 
"Affected Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of the Project,
have experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused
by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter;
(ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of
livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to another location; or (b) the
involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected areas,
resulting in adverse impact on the livelihoods of such persons.
2. 
"AIIB" means the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, a multilateral financial
institution established pursuant to its articles of agreement.
3. 
"Andhra Pradesh" means the Borrower's State of Andhra Pradesh.
4. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
5. 
"APEPDCL" means the Eastern Power Distribution Company of Andhra Pradesh
Ltd., a state owned power distribution utility, registered under the Borrower's
Companies Act (1956) pursuant to Certificate of Incorporation No. 01-34117 of
1999-2000; having its registered offices at P&T Colony, Seethammadhara,
Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh, 530 013.
6. 
"APSPDCL" means the Southern Power Distribution Company of Andhra Pradesh
Ltd., a state owned power distribution utility, registered under the Borrower's
Companies Act (1956) pursuant to Certificate of Incorporation No. 01-34118 of
1999-2000; having its registered offices at Srinivasa Puram, Tiruchanook,
Tirupathi, Andhra Pradesh, 517 503.
7. 
"APTRANSCO" means the Transmission Corporation of Andhra Pradesh Ltd., a
state owned power transmission utility, registered under the Borrower's
Companies Act (1956) pursuant to Certificate of Incorporation No. 01-30805 of
1998-99; having its registered offices at Vidyut Soudha, Khairtabad, Hyderabad,
Telangana 500 004.
8. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
9. 
"Co-financier" means the AIIB.
- 16 -
10. 
"Co-financing" means, for purposes of paragraph 16 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, an amount of one hundred and sixty million United States
Dollars (USD160,000,000) to be provided by the Co-financier to assist in financing
the Project.
11. 
"Co-financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Co-financier providing for the Co-financing.
12. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
13. 
"CPTD" 
means the Compensatory 
Plan for Temporary 
Disturbance, a
compensatory plan for temporary damages contained in the ESMF which sets forth
the entitlement matrix for the payment of compensations to Affected Persons who
suffer minor and temporary disturbances in the use of their land, as defined in the
ESMF on account of the erection of towers for the power transmission lines under
the Project, as such plans may be revised/updated from time to time with the prior
written agreement of the Bank.
14. 
"EMP" means each of the environmental management plans prepared and/or to be
prepared by the Implementing Agencies pursuant to Section I.E.2 of the Schedule
to the Project Agreement, in accordance with the provisions of the ESMF, in each
case setting out mitigation, enhancement, monitoring and institutional measures,
including capacity building through training, required to: (i) eliminate adverse
environmental impacts of activities to be implemented under the Project; (ii) offset
them, or reduce them to acceptable levels; and (iii) enhance any positive impacts
thereof, as such plans may be revised/updated, from time to time, with the prior
written agreement of the Bank.
15. 
"ESMF" means the Project Implementing Entity's and Implementing Agencies'
environmental and social management framework, disclosed by the Bank's
Infoshop on May 1, 2016, setting forth the guiding policies/principles, acceptable
standards and procedures for: (a) the screening of Project investment activities and
the identification of any adverse or positive social and environmental impacts
caused, or expected to be caused, on account of their implementation, including
any Affected Persons arising from the carrying out of such activities, or any
impacts, whether prejudicial or benign, caused or likely to be caused to Tribal
Groups; and (b) the preparation of their prescribed environmental and social
impact assessments, EMP(s) and/or RAP(s), as applicable; as such framework may
be revised, updated or supplemented from time to time with the prior written
concurrence of the Bank. The ESMF includes, inter alia, the Project's CPTD, the
TPDPF and the Gender Action Plan.
-17-
16. 
"Gender Action Plan" means the gender action plan disclosed as part of the ESMF,
setting forth gender equality and social inclusion actions to: (i) ensure equal
participation of women and men benefitting from the Project without
discrimination; and (ii) better outreach to women, as such plans may be
revised/updated, from time to time, with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
17. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
18. 
"ICT" means information and communication technologies.
19. 
"Implementing Agencies" means, collectively, APEPDCL, APSPDCL and
APTRANSCO; and the term "Implementing Agency" means any such agency,
individually considered.
20. 
"Implementing Agencies' Legal Frameworks" means:
(a) 
in respect of APEPDCL: the Memorandum and Articles of Association of
APEPDCL, of March 30, 2000, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(b) 
in respect of APSPDCL: the Memorandum and Articles of Association of
APSPDCL, of March 30,2000, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
and
(c) 
in respect of APTRANSCO: the Memorandum and Articles of Association
of APTRANSCO, of December 29, 1999, as amended to the date of this
Agreement.
21. 
"IUFRs" means the interim unaudited fmancial reports referred to in Section II.B.2
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and Section II.B.2 of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.
22. 
"kV" means kilo-volts.
23. 
"PIU" means each of the Project implementation units established within each
Implementing Agency in order to carry out their Respective Parts of the Project,
and referred to in Section I.B. 1 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
24. 
"PMC" means the Project management consulting firm(s) to be selected and hired
pursuant to Section 1.B.3 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, in order to
assist the Implementing Agencies in the carrying out of their Respective Parts of
the Project.
-18-
25. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
26. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
April 11, 2017 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time
to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
27. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means Andhra Pradesh.
28. 
"RAP" means each of the resettlement action plans to be prepared and publicly
disclosed by the Implementing Agencies pursuant to Section I.E.2 of the Schedule
to the Project Agreement, in accordance with the provisions of the respective
ESMF, setting forth any compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement assistance
to be provide to Affected Persons, in a manner and substance satisfactory to the
Bank, on account of Project implementation, as such plans may be revised/updated
from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
29. 
"Respective Operations Manuals" means collectively the operations manuals
prepared and adopted by APEPDCL, APSPDCL and APTRANSCO on June 1,
2017, respectively, for purposes of carrying out their Respective Parts of Project,
which manuals detail, inter alia: (i) the principles and objective of the Project,
estimated costs and source of funding; (ii) the Project implementation
arrangements, including the identification of PIUs' key relevant staff, and the
allocation of functions and responsibilities within them; (iii) the format of the
IUFRs; (iv) the terms of reference for the external auditor preparing the Financial
Statements; (v) the terms of reference for the PMC; (vi) the protocols, mechanisms
and 
allocation 
of 
responsibilities 
for the 
social 
and 
environmental
screening/assessment of Project activities, and the compliance with the Safeguard
Documents; and (vii) the Project monitoring and evaluation, and reporting
requirements for each Implementing Agency; as such manuals may be amended
from time to time with the prior concurrence of the Bank.
30. 
"Respective Parts of the Project" means:
(a) 
in respect of APEPDCL: the Project activities detailed in Components 2,
3 and 4 of the Project to be carried out by APEPDCL within APEPDCL's
commercial jurisdiction;
(b) 
in respect of APSPDCL: the Project activities detailed in Components 2,
3 and 4 of the Project to be carried out by APSPDCL within APSPDCL's
commercial jurisdiction; and
- 19 -
(c) 
in respect of APTRANSCO: the Project activities detailed in Component
I and 4 of the Project to be carried out by APTRANSCO as per its
transmission concession agreements/jurisdiction.
31. 
"Safeguard Documents" means, collectively the Respective ESMFs, the EMP(s),
the RAP(s), the CPTD, and the TPDP(s).
32. 
"Subsidiary Agreements" means, collectively, the agreements referred to in
Section I.A of the Schedule to the Project Agreement pursuant to which the Project
Implementing Entity shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to the
Implementing Agencies for the carrying out of their Respective Parts of the
Project.
33. 
"TPDP" 
means each of the Implementing Agency/cies' 
tribal 
people's
development plans to be prepared pursuant to Sections I.E.2 of Schedule to the
Project Agreement and in accordance with the provisions of the ESMF, which set
forth the principles and procedures designed to ensure meaningful consultation
with, and informed participation of, Tribal Groups and their communities in the
design and implementation of the Project activities, as well as their participation
in the envisioned culturally appropriate and socially inclusive benefits thereof, as
such plans may be amended from time to time with the prior written concurrence
of the Bank.
34. 
"TPDPF" means the Project Implementing Entity's tribal peoples' development
planning framework, disclosed as part of the ESMF, setting forth the policies and
procedures to ensure that Tribal Groups and their communities affected by the
Project receive culturally appropriate social and economic benefits, and if any
potential adverse effects on such communities were identified, the measures to
ensure that their effects are avoided, minimized, mitigated, or compensated, as well
as the protocols for the preparation ofTPDP(s), as such framework may be revised,
updated or supplemented from time to time with the prior written concurrence of
the Bank.
35. 
"Training" means the reasonable cost of trainings, seminars, workshops,
conferences and study tours, conducted in the territory of the Borrower and/or
overseas, and organized for, or attended by, the staff of the Implementing Agencies
in relation to the Project, which costs include: (a) the fees of training institutions
and courses; (b) domestic and international travel costs, lodging costs, and
subsistence/per diem allowances both for trainers and trainees; (c) the rental of
training facilities; and (d) preparation, purchase or reproduction of training
materials.
36. 
"Tribal Groups" means any distinct, vulnerable, social and cultural group within
the territory of Andhra Pradesh that: (i) self-identifies as such and claims, and is
recognized by others as, having a distinguishable cultural identity; (ii) has
-20-
collective attachment to geographically distinct habitats or ancestral territories in
the Project area, and to the natural resources in these habitat and territories; (iii)
has customary cultural, economic, social and political institutions that are separate
from those of the dominant society and culture; and (iv) has an indigenous
language, often different from the official languages of the Borrower and/or of
Andhra Pradesh.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1 .
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. 
The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
-21-
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), the Commitment Charge, any
surcharge, any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early
termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any
premium payable upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
8. 
The references to "Project Implementing Entity", "Project Implementing Entity's
Address" and "Project Implementing Entity's Representative" throughout the
General Conditions shall be construed to include and apply to "Implementing
Agencies", the "Implementing Agencies' Addresses" and the "Implementing
Agencies' Representatives", in addition to the "Project Implementing Entity" as
defined in this Agreement and/or the Project Agreement, as the case may be.
