OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8669-AO
Loan Agreement
(Angola Statistics Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
March 02 
, 2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8669-AO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT 
dated 
March 02 
, 
2017, 
between 
the
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA ("Borrower") and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank").
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of sixty-two million United States
Dollars ($62,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08
of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule
I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower's Representative for purposes
of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is
the General Director of INE.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided,
that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the
General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment
-2-
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April 1 and October I in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05(c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE III- 
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project Implementing
Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions
and the Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV- 
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consists of the following, namely that the
Project Implementing Entity's Legislation has been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability
of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs in respect of the Project
Implementing Entity's Legislation.
ARTICLE V-EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consists of the following:
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower
and the Project Implementing Entity.
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Agency to appoint a
Project financial management specialist at the PIU on the terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the Subsidiary
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Project
Implementing Entity and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the Project
Implementing Entity in accordance with its terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
-4-
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its ministry responsible for finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministdrio das Finanqas
Largo da Mutamba
Luanda, Angola
Facsimile:
+244 222 706 002/3
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at I lunda 
, 
Republic of Angola , as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
By:
Authorized Representative
Name: 
Augusto Archer Mangueira
Title: Minister of Finance
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By:
Authorized Representative
Name: Clara Ana Coutinho de Sousa
Title: Country Manager for Angola
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to strengthen the capacity of INE to fill data gaps,
improve statistical production and enhance statistical dissemination practices.
Part 1: 
Institutional Reform and Capacity
Support INE Institutional reform, through:
(a) 
Carrying out institutional needs assessment, review of existing laws and
regulation, 
staffing 
profile reviews, 
and carrying out statistical
coordination meetings.
(b) 
Carrying out a needs assessment and ICT infrastructure upgrade, including
maintenance of a national statistical database.
(c) 
Carrying out training needs assessment and its implementation, including
revision and adoption of standardized statistical curriculum in selected
schools.
Part 2: 
Data Production and Dissemination
Strengthening INE technical capacity to produce national accounts data and
statistics, and establishment of a modem statistical monitoring infrastructure paired with
open data access policies, through:
(a) 
Upgrading and maintenance of national business registry.
(b) 
Establishing a welfare and agricultural production monitoring system
through carrying out selected census and surveys.
(c) 
Carrying out a price index and informal sector surveys, including
compilation of related reports.
(d) 
Developing data access and information dissemination policies.
Part 3: 
Project Manaement
Project implementation support to the Project Implementing Entity in the areas of,
inter alia, technical oversight, financial management, monitoring and evaluation,
procurement, and reporting.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section 1. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Subsidiary Agreement
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds
of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity under a subsidiary
agreement between the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity, under terms
and conditions approved by the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such a
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish
the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its
provisions.
B. 
Institutional Arrangements
The Borrower shall maintain INE as the Project Implementing Entity, throughout
the implementation of the Project.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the Project
in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
Section II. 
Project Monitorinz Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to monitor and evaluate
the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators
acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar
quarter, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after
the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
I. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
-8-
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the Bank not later
than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited
financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to have its Financial
Statements for the Project audited in accordance with the provisions of Section
5.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall
cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial
Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six
(6) months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods and Non-Consulting Services. All goods and non-consulting services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I
of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-Consulting Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-Consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive Bidding; (b) Shopping; and
(c) Direct Contracting.
-9-
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following
methods, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; (c) 
Least Cost Selection; (d) Selection based on Consultants'
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Selection of
Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article 11 of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised
from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant
to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
-10-
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, non-consulting 
58,345,000 
100%
services, consultants'
services, Operating
Costs, and Training
and Workshops for the
Project
(2) Refund of the 
3,500,000 
Amount payable pursuant
Preparation Advance 
to Section 2.07(a) of the
General Conditions
(3) Front-end Fee 
155,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07(b) of the
General Conditions
(4) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar 
Section 2.08(c) of this
premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
62,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
I. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
from the Loan Account (other than to repay the Preparation Advance) until
the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee; or
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $12,400,000 may be
made for payments made prior to this date but on or after May 1, 2016, for
Eligible Expenditures under Category (1).
2. 
The Closing Date is November 30, 2021.
-ll-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as ofthe first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Principal Payment Date 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each April I and October 1
Beginning April 1, 2022 through October 1, 2046 
2%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
- 12-
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
- 13 -
APPENDIX
Section 1. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Annual Work Plan and Budget" means the work plan and budget approved by the
Bank and adopted by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of Section
LC of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, as said work plan and budget may be
modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
4. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
5. 
"FPM" means the Financial Procedures Manual for the Project referred to in
Section I.C. 1 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
6. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
7. 
"Operating Costs" means the incremental expenses incurred on account of Project
implementation, based on Annual Work Plans and Budgets approved by the Bank
pursuant to Section I.C of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, including office
supplies, vehicle operation and maintenance, communication and insurance costs,
office administration costs, utilities, travel and per diem related to supervision of
the Project, excluding salaries of the Borrower's civil servants.
8. 
"PAT" means Project Assurance Team that will support the PIU, referred to in
Section I.B. I of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
9. 
"Preparation Advance" means the advance referred to in Section 2.07(a) of the
General Conditions, granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter
agreement to be signed at a later date on behalf of the Borrower and the Bank.
10. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-Consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
- 14 -
11. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
October 27, 2016, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines
and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
12. 
"Project Implementing Entity" or "INE" means the Republic of Angola's National
Statistical Institute.
13. 
"Project Implementing Entity's Legislation" means Law 3/11 of January 14, 2011,
establishing the principles and norms of the Republic of Angola's statistical
system, as well as the regulations and organic statute of the Project's Implementing
Entity created pursuant Decree No. 32/00 of July 7, 2000.
14. 
"Project Implementation Unit" or "PIU" means the project implementation unit
referred to in Section I.B.3 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
15. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section L.A of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the
proceeds of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity.
16. 
"Training and Workshops" includes services for the organization of the workshops,
training materials and rental of training facilities and equipment, local travel and
per diem for participants, tuition fees, travel, accommodation and per diem of
trainers and trainees, printing of documents, communications, and various supplies
needed for the workshops.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. 
The
- 15 -
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any
prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of
a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable
upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any
Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
