OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER S769-IN
Loan Agreement
(Skill India Mission Operation)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
, 2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8769-IN
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
, 2017. between INDIA ("Borrower") and
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT
("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred and fifty million Dollars
(USD250.000.000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through
a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement ("Loan") to assist in financing the program and the project as
described in Parts I (the "Program") and II (the "Project") of Schedule I to this
Agreement (the Program and the Project hereinafter jointly referred to as the
"Operation").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall
be deposited by the Bank into an account specified by the Borrower and acceptable
to the Bank.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread:
provided. that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan. the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing. if any
-2-
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15, in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwitbdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion". as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.09. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure
Limit (as said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)ii) and (b)(iii) of
this Section). the Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of
-3-
one half of one per:ent (0.5%) per annun of the Allocated Excess
Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (bXi) of this Section) for
each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if any)
shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set
forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during
which the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit, the
product of: (A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the ratio of all (or,
if the Bank so determines, a portion) of the Loan to the aggregate amount
of all (or the equivalent portions) of the loans made by the Bank to the
Borrower, and to other borrowers guaranteed by the Borrower that are also
subject to an exposure surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably
determined from time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the
Bank's financial exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded, would
subject the Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined from time to
time by the Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total
financial exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
ARTICLE 1il -
OPERATION
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Operation. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out: (i) the Program, with the assistance of the
Participating States; and (ii) the Project, all in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement. and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Operation is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS, TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
-4-
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE: ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is any of the following officials acting severally:
the Secretary. Additional Secretary. Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary,
or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs of the Borrower's
Ministry of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Secretary
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
North Block
New Delhi 110 001. India
Facsimile:
+91-11-2309 2247
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street. N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Facsimile:
1-202-477-6391
AGREED at 
, India. as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By
.Authorized Representative
Name: 
fAP"M 
ACtA40tV
Title: 
E
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
ByJW
Authorized Representative
Namne: 
;:0AOT 
'K'O't 
Tifici do,jw 
ea; 
/iAA
-6-
SCHEDULE I
Operation Description
The objectives of the Operation are to enhance institutional mechanisms for skills
development and increase access to quality and market-rlevant training for the work force.
Part 1: The Program consists of the following activities:
Results Area 1: Institutional Stresgtheming at the National and State Levels for
Planing, Deliveriag, and Moaltorlag High-Quality Market-Relevant Training
Ia. 
lastitutional Strengtheaing at the National Level
Strengthening the MSDE in its financial management and coordination role for all skills
development activities across all ministries and states through, inter alia
(i) 
Strengthening the National Skills Development Agency (NSDA) as MSDE's
research arm in charge of quality assurance, monitoring and evaluation, that
include, inter alia: (a) fostering the adoption and implemeatation of the National
Skills Qualifications Framework (NSQF) across ministries and states; (b)
supporting the establishment of the National Skills Research Division (NSRD) that
will analyze the Labor Market Information System (LMIS) data, conduct periodic
skill surveys and other relevant studies, and serve as think tank for MSDE; (c)
supporting the creation of the LMIS in the NSDA to aggregate databases on skill
development activities of all stakeholders, and link with employment exchanges;
and (d) strengthening the Sector Skills Councils (SSCs) to align the quality
assurance systems of the skill development programs with industry demand and
short-term trainings needs of the private sector.
(ii) 
Supporting 
the 
SSCs for improved governance systems and financial
sustainability, by undertaking activities that include, inter alia: (a) identification
of skill development needs; (b) preparation of sector skill development plan; (c)
development and streamlining of competency standards and qualifications, and
ensuring their NSQF-compliance; (d) development of Qualification Packs (QPs);
(e) design, plan. and facilitate the implementation of Training of Trainers (ToT):
(f) the carrying out of assessment and certification of trainers and assessors; (g)
special initiatives to ensure program offerings are available and tailored to meet
the needs and context of disabled and minority populations; and (h) facilitate
placement of skilled and certified persons.
(iii) 
Standardizing registration and accreditation criteria for training providers, and
establishing a credible skills assessment ecosystem through the setting up of a
National Skills Certification Board (NSCB).
-7-
(iv) 
Streamlining functions of the NSDC to, mter alia: (a) operate as a nodal agency
for promoting Public-Private Partnerships in skill development and encouraging
private investment; (b) encourage private investment in the skill development
sector (c) improve the quality of short-term skilling programs implemented
directly by NSDC; (d) strengthen oversight mechanisms at the National Skill
Development Fund (NSDF): and (e) augment government efforts in mobilizing
corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds.
(v) 
Setting up of a national governance, planning, quality assurance, financing, and
evaluation mechanism that eliminates perceived conflicts of interest in the system.
particularly with respect to training delivery, assessments, and certifications.
(vi) 
Developing a massive open online courses (MOOC)-based platform for skill
development.
(vii) 
Setting up of sector mentor committees to review and align content of short-term
courses with long-term courses.
lb. 
Institutional Strengthesing at the State and Dbtrict Levels
Strengthening the State Skills Development Missions (SSDMs) in the planning.
implementation, and monitoring capacity at the state and district levels through the
provision of competitive State Incentive Grants (SIG) linked to states' performance and
based on proposed annual District Skills Development Plans (DSDPs) and State Skills
Development Plans (SSDPs) approved by the Program Appraisal Board (PAB) to, inter
alir (i) foster collaboration between SSDMs and NSDC and SSCs; (ii) ensure alignment
of skill development programs with the NSQF. (iii) coordinate all skill training activities
in the state; (iv) manage skill training activities in the state using a state-level transaction
processing system and/or MIS linked to the LMIS; (v) coordinate with the SSCs to review
and tailor curricula, training materials, and/or e-learning packages to ensure that the QPs
are adjusted to meet local industry needs, norms, or context; (vi) achieve training targets
under the PMKVY, (vii) monitor and evaluate trends and outcomes of state-level training
programs, including carrying out tracer studies, skills gap analyses, and other relevant
performance analyses in coordination with NSRD; (viii) conduct candidate mobilization
activities, information campaigns. and corporate outreach events to communicate
achievements and plans, leverage potential investments, 
and increase business
productivity; (ix) offer technical assistance services to districts and training providers to
improve their institutional and staffing capacity to plan. deliver, measure, and monitor the
delivery of new, high-quality training programs; and (x) promote use of common affiliation
and certification norms.
Results Area 2: Imsproved Quality and Market Relievance of Skills Development
Program
Increasing access of training providers to packages of technical resources and materials to
improve the quality of their progrom offerings and laor market bransitions of trainees
through, imer alia: (i) development of guidelines and procedres to obtain and maintain
state accreditation in accordance with the new qualification guidelines; (Hi) development
and dissemination by the NSDC and SSCs of curriculum content and reference guides
aligned with the NSQF; (iii) preparation by the SSCs of packages of technical resources
and material available for training providers, inchling guidelines, toolkits, and online
support; (iv) development of guidelines to identify, recruit, and retain eflbctive master
trainers and the setting up of local cadre of master trainers; (v) development of guidelines.
tools, and initiatives to help graduates transition successfully into the labor market upon
the completion of nraining;, (vi) design and implementation of trainer training programs to
overcome trainer shortage, and training of qualified assessors; (vii) provision of
information and opnions to access an efficient and credible assessment schemelbody that
evaluates and certifies skill comnpetencies in accordance with the NSQF; (viii) provision of
online support to carry out eff:ctive outreach events with the SSCs. local industries.
employers, and relevant primary and secondary schools to facilitate apprenticeships and
placement; (ix) provision of customized online technical assistance support to new or
weaker training providers to prepare submission forms and procedures to comply with the
Program standards, (x) provision of data requirements and submission procedures to ensure
timelyv and accurate compliance with state and/or national level monitoring and evaluation
systems; and (xi) provision of bi-monthly information and planning seisions (face-to-fatce
and online) to help improve performance.
Rasuls Area 3: Improved access to and completion of skill traiming for female
trainees and other disadvantaged gromps
Supporting demand-side and supply-side interventions focused on socially excluded
groups (women, Scheduled Tribes (ST), Scheduled Castes (SCs), and persons with
disabilities (PWD)), in particular through:
3&~ Innewmions to Enksuice Access for Sociefly Emciuded Groups
(i) Developing modules, guidelines, and protocols to deliver counselling support and socio
emotional/life skills training as a complement to job-specific training content; (ii)
designing and evaluating pilots to test the cost-effectiveness and impact of financial
incentives (such as Direct Benefit Transfer-enabled skills vouchers transport support, cash
transfers, and scholarships) to bolster participation and placement of women, ST and/or SC
youth at the state level in partnership with the SSDMs and the PMKVY; (iii) designing and
evaluating pilots to test cost-effective methods of offering counselling support (centers,
peer-groups, web-based platforms) as complements to training program for socially
excluded groups and those in remote locations, (iv) improving exposure of women to non-
traitional and non-sterectypical occupations, facilitative support for self-employment, and
-9-
developing a cadre of women trainers; (v) focusing on select, low-income states to support
special strategies and incentivizing them with larger financial allocations if needed based
on initial assessment of capacity and resource constraints; and (vi) establishing better
accountability arrangements with incentives and community participation for enhancing
service delivery of skill development programs in all such programs.
3b. 
Support Integration of Socially Excluded Groups into Planning, Monitoring,
and Program Delivery
Supporting the integration of socially excluded groups by facilitating linkages with high
growth sectors and locations in the economy, and incorporating identity-specific
constraints into job diagnostics; undertaking strategic interventions to increase elevant job
opportunities and self-employment provisions for PWDs, along with further disaggregated
strategies for women with disabilities through, inter alia- (i) establishing model training
centers for PWDs in select locations (with required trainers, infrastructure, equipment, and
curriculum design) and sectors; (ii) strengthening capacities of the SSDMs and the NSRD
to integrate disability into jobs diagnostics and skill gap analysis. (iii) establishing referral
and job placement programs for PWD to facilitate finding, obtaining, maintaining, and
returning to work 
and (iv) testing the effectiveness of using Information and
Communication Technology (ICT) enabled training in remote locations and ara with high
concentrations of disadvantaged groups, as a means to create hubs of excellence for
relevant sectors and link economically weaker locations to high-growth sectors or
locations.
Resut Area 4: Expanding skflBs training tkromgh prise-pmhc perters4ps (PPPs)
Mobilization of CSR funds through the establishing of the CSR Skills Fund as a funding
mechanism supported by the Skills to Jobs Platform (S2J Platform), an online platform that
enables CSR funds provided by the private sector to be matched by government funds for
joint public-private investment in key skills development priorities.
Part II: 
The Project consists of the following activities:
Technical Assistance
Providing technical assistance for capacity building through, inter alia: (i) establishing the
MSDE's program management unit (PMU) to strengthen existing capacities in financial
management planning, and program coordination within the National Skill Development
Mission (NSDM), NSDA, and NSDC; (ii) hiring the Independent Verification Agency
(IVA) in charge of verifying all Program's results and DLls; (iii) providing support to
SSDMs aiming to improve their skills development program design and pilots; and (iv)
supporting monitoring and evaluation, impact evaluation, and third party assessments/
validation of implementation activities and program outcomes.
-10--
SCHEDULE 2
Operation Execution
section 1. 
Iaunlementabmo Arrannents for the Prowam and te ProAWc
A. 
Institutlonal Arrangements
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
vest the overall responsibility for the implementation of the Operation's
activities in the MSDE, who will carry out the activities with the assistance
of NSDC, NSDA, NSDF and the SSDMs;
(b) 
maintain, through the period of implementation of the Operation, the
institutional governance mechanism for the Program including the
Governing Council (headed by the Prime Minister), the Steering
Committee (headed by the Minister of MSDE), and the Mission
Directorate (headed by the Secretary of MSDE, who will function as the
Program Director);
(c) 
by no later than three (3) months after the Effective Date, establish and
maintain, throughout the period of implementation of the Operation, a 
national Program Management Unit ("PMU") within the Mission
Directorate, which unit shall be provided with competent, experienced and
qualified staff in sufficient numbers and under terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank, and vested with powers, financial resources.
functions and competences. acceptable to the Bank, to serve as the focal
unit in the carrying out of the day-to-day implementation of the Operation;
(d) 
by no later than three (3) months after the Effective Date, establish and
maintain, throughout the period of implementation of the Operation, a
Program Appraisal Board ("PAB") within the MSDE. which shall be
provided with competent experienced and qualified staft in sufficient
numbers and under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. and vested
with powers, financial resources. functions and competences, acceptable
to the Bank. to carry out the responsibility of assessing, selecting, and
approving Participating States' SSDPs. and proposals to access funds from
the SIGs;
(e) 
select and engage by the earlier of the date which is three (3) months after
the Effective Date and the first date on which the Borrower undertakes a
verification protocol in accordance with Section Ill.C of this Schedule 2,
and thereafter maintain throughout the period of implementation of the
Operation. the services of an Independent Verification Agency (IVA) with
-11-
qualification and experience and under terms of reference acceptable to
the Bank, in order to: (i) support the Operation's monitoring and
evaluation; (ii) document the achievement of DLIs/DLRs and the
achievement of initiatives under the CSR Skills Fund, and (iii) prepare a
mid-term process evaluation report on the Program,
(f) 
establish by no later than three (3) months after the Effective Date, and
thereafter maintain throughout the period of implementation of the
Operation: (i) the Skills Fund Management Team; and (ii) the Skills Fund
Oversight Committee, both with terms of reference and qualifications
acceptable to the Bank, dedicated to support the NSDC in the management
of the CSR Skills Fund;
(g) 
produce, approve, and adopt by the earlier of the date which is three (3)
months after the Effective Date and the first date on which the Borrower
undertakes a verification protocol in accordance with Section IlLC of this
Schedule 2, the CSR Skills Funds Manual in form and substance
acceptable to the Bank. The Borrower shall thereafter implement the
Program in accordance with the CSR Skills Fund Manual;
(h) 
carry out at least biannual Joint Review Missions in each fiscal year with
the participation of the Bank, NSDA, NSDC, Participating States, and
other stakeholders, to review the progress of the Operation in accordance
with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; and
(i) 
cause the Comptroller and Auditor General of India to conduct an audit of
the use of public finds under the Operation at mid-terni; which audit shall
cover all the activities and results areas of the Operation, with the
exception of the CSR Skills fund for which a private independent auditor
will carry out audits with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
B. 
Anti-Corruption Gaielines for the Program
The Borrower shall ensure that the Program be carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Bank's "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and
Corruption in Program-for-Results Financing" dated February 1, 2012 and revised
July 10, 2015.
C. 
Anti-Corruption Guidelines for the Project
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project be carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Bank's "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and
-12-
Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants".
dated October 15. 2006 and revised in January 2011, and as of July 1, 2016.
D. 
Program Fiduciary, Environmental and Social Systems for the Program
Without limitation on the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the
Borrower shall carry out the Program. or cause the Program to be carried out, in
accordance with financial management, procurement and environmental and social
management systems acceptable to the Bank. including those set out in the ESSA,
the SIG Manual, 
and the Program Action Plan ("Program 
Fiduciary,
Environmental and Social Systems") which are designed to ensure that:
(a) 
the Loan proceeds are used for their intended purposes, with due attention
to the principles of economy, efficiency. effectiveness, transparency, and
accountability-, and
(b) 
the actual and potential adverse environmental and social impacts of the
Program are identified, avoided, minimized, or mitigated, as the case may
be, all through an informed decision-making process.
L 
Safeguard Requirements mader the Project
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project, or cause the Project to be carried out, in
accordance with the TPPF and each additional assessment or plan required to be
prepared and implemented thereunder; and to refrain, and/or cause the
Participating States, to refrain, from taking any action which would prevent or
interfere with the implementation of any requirements under the TPPF, including
any amendment, suspension, waiver, and/or voidance of any provision of the
TPPF. whether in whole or in part, without the prior written concurrence of the
Bank.
2. 
Any activities involving involuntary resettlement (as defined in the Bank's
Operational Policy 4.12) is excluded from the financing under the Project.
3. 
In the event of any conflict between the provisions of any of the TPPF, on one
hand, and the provisions of this Agreement, on the other hand, the provisions of
this Agreement shall prevail.
F. 
Program Action Plas
1I 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
implement the Program Action Plan agreed with the Bank, in a manner
and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and
-13-
(b) 
refrain from amending, revising, waiving, voiding, suspending or
abrogating, any provision of the Program Action Plan, whether in whole
or in part, without the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
2. 
In the event of any inconsistency between the provision of the Program Action
Plan and those of this Agreement, the provision of this Agreement shall govern.
G. 
State Incentive Grants (SIG)
By no later than the earlier of the date which is three (3) months after the Effective
Date and the first date on which the Borrower undertakes a verification protocol in
accordance with Section M.C of this Schedule 2, the Borrower shall produce,
approve and adopt the States Incentive Grant Manual ("SIG Manual") in form and
substance acceptable to the Bank. The Borrower shall thereafter implement and
cause each Participating State to implement the Program in accordance with the
SIG Manual.
2. 
After proceeds of the Loan allocated to DLI#6 under Category (1) of the table set
forth in paragraph 2 of Section VA of this Schedule 2 have been withdrawn in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
make such proceeds available to the Participating States in accordance with the
applicable arrangements and procedures set forth in the SIG Manual, which
manual shall provide inter alia that each Participating State shall:
(a) 
formally establish a State Skill Development Mission (SSDM) in the
respective department implementing the State's skills development
program
(b) 
prepare annual District Skills Development Plans (DSDPs) based on the
SIG Manual's criteria and on consultations with stakeholders and SSCs;
and
(C) 
consolidate the DSDPs into state level State Skills Development Plans
(SSDPs), and submit said SSDPs as Annual Implementation Plans to the
MSDE's PAB for assessment and approval.
3. 
Upon the assessment and approval of the SSDPs by the MSDE's PAB and pursuant
the SIG Manual; the Borrower, acting through MSDE, shall enter into a written
agreement ("Letter of Undertaking') with each Participating State for the provision
of State Incentive Grants (SIGs). under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank. which may include. inter alia:
(a) 
the Participating State commits to the objective of the Program, and
undertakes to carry out any activities under the Program in accordance
with sound technical, financial, managerial. social and environmental and
-14-
labor standards, consistent with the minimum requirements set forth in the
SIG Manual and the ESSA, and acceptable to the Bank-
(b) 
the SIGs shall: (i) be used to exclusively finance the eligible expenditures
set forth in the SIG Manual (with the exclusions set forth in Section II of
this 
Schedule); (ii) 
be disbursed upon the Participating State's
achievement of specific, 
measurable, 
verifiable and attributable
indicatorsiresults, and (ii) have a closing date (end of disbursement period)
not to exceed the date set forth in Section V.D.2 of this Schedule;
(c) 
the Participating State shall implement its respective activities under the
Program, in compliance with the Bank's "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Program-for-Results Financing"
dated February 1, 2012 and revised July 10, 2015.
(d) 
the Participating State shall: (i) establish and/or maintain policies and
procedures that would allow the Borrower and/or the Bank to carry out
supervision and monitoring the implementation of the Participating State's
activities under the Program; (ii) prepare and furnish to the Borrower
and/or the Bank, all such information that the Borrower, and/or the Bank
shall reasonably request in relation to the Program; and (iii) accept the
carrying out of inspections by the Borrower and/or the Bank for the
monitoring of, and in relation to, the carrying out of the activities under
the Program;
(e) 
the Participating State shall: (i) prepare progress reports based on standard
reporting templates prepared by the MSDE on Program activities under
the Participant State's responsibility and submit said reports to the
Borrower for consolidation and further submission to the Bank;
(f) 
the Participating State shall: (i) maintain records and accounts adequate to
reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations,
resources and expenditures incurred in the implementation of its
respective activities under the Program; and (ii) have such records and
accounts audited in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied by an independent auditor;
(g) 
the Borrower shall have the right to suspend or terminate the right of the
Participating State to withdraw and use the proceeds of the SIG upon any
failure of the Participating State to perform it obligations under the Letter
of Undertaking; and
(h) 
the Participating State acknowledges and consents to the Borrower's right
of restitution of any amounts disbursed under the SIG with respect to
which fraud and corruption has occurred. or with which an ineligible
expenditure has been paid.
Section IL 
Exeladed Activities mder the Program
The Borrower shall ensure that the Program excludes any activities which:
(a) 
in the opinion of the Bank., are likely to have significant adverse impacts
that are sensitive, diverse, or unprecedented on the environment and/or
affected people; or
(b) 
involve the procurement of: (1) works, estimated to cost fifty million
United States Dollars (USD 50,000.000) equivalent or more per contract
(2) goods, and non-consulting services, estimated to cost thirty million
United States Dollars (USD 30,000,000) equivalent or more per contract;
or (3) consuoants' services, estimated to cost fifteen million United States
Dollars (USD 15,000,000) equivalent or more per contract.
Section IIL 
Operation Monitoring, Reporting and Evaleation; Audits
A. 
Progress Reports for the Operation
The Borrower, through MSDE, shall thonitor and evaluate the progress of the
Operation and prepare Progress Reports in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with
the Bank. Without limiting Section 5.08 of the General Conditions, the Progress
Reports shall cover the progress achieved by the Borrower in the implementation
of the Program Action Plan. Each Progress Report shall cover the period of one
calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45)
days after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management sad Audits for the Operatiso
1 
The Borrower shall maintain, and shall cause the Participating States to maintain,
financial management systems and prepare, and cause the Participating States to
prepare, financial statements ("Financial Statements") in accordance with
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank. in a manner to
adequately reflect resources and expenditures related to the Operation.
2. 
Without limitation on the generality of Section I.D. of this Schedule 2 and Section
5.09 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall, and shall cause the
Participating States to, have the Financial Statements for the Program and the
Project audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General
Conditions. Each audit of the Project's and the Program's Financial Statements
shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower or the Participating States,
-16-
as the case may be, commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal
was made from the Loan under the Program andior the Project, respectively.
Unless otherwise agreed with the Bank, the Borrowers' and the Participating
States' audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than nine (9) months after the end of such period.
C. 
Verification Protocols for the Program
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
undertake a verification process. in accordance with the terms of reference
agreed with the Bank, to certify the fulfillment of the Disbursement Linked
Results set out in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, and
(b) 
furnish to the Bank corresponding verification report(s), in form and
substance agreed with the Bank.
D. 
Interim Financial Report for the Project
Without limitation of the provisions of sub-Sections ILI.A and JIB of this
Schedule 2, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank. not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unnudited financial
reports (IUFRs") for the Project covering the Eligible Expenditures incurred
during the quarter, all in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
Section IV. 
Procurement Activities under the Project (Part 11 of Schedule I to this
Agreement)
A. 
General
I 
Goods and Non-consulting Services. All goods and non-consulting services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I
of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and W of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, 1, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
-17-
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services
1. 
laterustional Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and No&-cosulting Services. The
following method, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) Limited International Bidding; (b) National Competitive
Bidding, subject to the additional provisions agreed from time to time in the
Procurement Plan; (c) Shopping and (d) Direct Contracting.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Coasaltants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection, (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget (c) Least Cost Selection; (d) Selection based on Consultants'
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Procedures set
forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of
Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section V. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
I. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article 11 of the General Conditions, this Section. and such additional
instructions as the Bank may specify from time to time by notice to the Borrower
in order to finance:
-18-
(a) 
the Program Expenditures on the basis of the results ("Disbursement
Linked Results" or "DLRs") achieved by the Borrower, as measured
against specific indicators ("Disbursement Linked Indicators" or "DLIs"),
all as set forth in Category (1) of the table in paragraph 2 (below) of this
sub-Section V.A and Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(b) 
the Project's Eligible Expenditures as set forth in Category (2) of the table
in paragraph 2 (below) of this sub-Section V.A;
(c) 
the Front-end Fee, and/or
(d) 
each Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar premium, if applicable, upon
the Borrower's exercising the respective options set forth in Section 2.08
of this Agreement.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories for the withdrawal of the proceeds of
the Loan, and allocated amounts for each such category, including, as the :ase may
be: (a) the Programs' Disbursement Linked Indicators that may be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan under Category (1); and (b) the Project's Eligible
Expenditures that may be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan under Category
(2) and the fiancing percentages thereof. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for
purposes of Category (1) of the table below, the actual amounts authorized for
disbursement ("Allocated Amount") and/or the formula for their determination
upon the achievement of an individual DLR for any given DLI financed under such
Category, are set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement:
Amoat of the
LossEubl
Category 
Alocated 
E 
urs to
(expressed W a 
h 
of
USD) 
Tam)
(1) Disbursements under the Program for:
(a) DLI # 1: Trainees who have
successfully completed the NSQF 
27.500,000 
N/A
aligned market-relevant short-term
SD programs and were certified
(b) DLI #2: Percentage of graduates who 
20,000,000
are wage employed or self-employed
-19-
Amouat of the 
Percentage of
LAS 
Efigible
Category 
Alocated 
meinet
(expressed in 
(hicunive of
USD) 
Taxes)
within six months of completion of
short-term SD programs
(c) DLI #3: NSQF aligned QPs
translated into model curricuiun
trainers guide, and teaching learning 
16.250,000
resource packs
(d) DLI #4: Number of trainers and
assessors trained/retained with the
new CPD modules 
8,750,000
(c) DLI # 5: A system in place to
undertake M&E of SD programs at
the national and state level 
15.000,000
(f) DLI #6: Improved performance of
states on institutional strengthening,
market relevance of SD programs,
and access to and completion of 
100,000,000
training by marginalized populations
(g) DLI #7: lncrease in percentage of
women. SCs and STs, and PWD
participating in SD programs 
12.500,000
(h) DLI #8: Joint public and private 
36.875,000
sector funding successfully
-20-
Amount of the 
e 
n 
of
Category 
Allocated 
mpenditures I
(epressed in 
be Finaseed
(iclusive of
USD)Taxes)
channelized and utilized into priority
SD initiatives
(2) Eligible Expenditures under the Project
for 
goods, 
non-consulting 
services
consultants' 
services, 
Training 
and 
12,500,000 
100%
Workshops and Incremental Operating
Costs for the Project.
(3) Front-end Fee to be paid pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this Agreement in
accordance with Section 2.05(b) of the 
625,000 
100%
General Conditions (renumbered as such
pursuant to paragraphs 3 and 5 of Section
II of the Appendix to this Agreement
(4) Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar
premium to be paid pursuant to Section
2.08(c) of this Agreement in accordance 
0 
100%
with Section 
4.05 of the General
Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
250,000,000
3. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, for purposes of Category (1)(f) and (1)(h) of the
table above, no withdrawal shall be made for DLRs under: (i) DLI # 6: and (ii)
DLI # 8 until and unless the SIG Manual (for DLI #6) and the CSR Skills Funds
Manual (for DLI #8), respectively, have been prepared, approved, and adopted by
the Borrower in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
B. 
Withdrawal Coaditioas; Withdrawal Period
I. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
-21-
(a) 
for purposes of Section 2.03 of the General Conditions (renumbered as
such pursuant to paragraph 6 of Section III of the Appendix to this
Agreement) and relating to Program Expendinres, for DLRs achieved
prior to the date of this Agreement or
(b) 
for any DLR under any subcategory in Category (I), until and unless the
) 
Borrower has furnished evidence satisfactory to the Bank that said DLR
has been achieved.
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B. 1(b) of this Section, the Borrower may
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of twenty-five percent (25%) of the amounts allocatd to all
subcategories under Category (1) (net of any cancellatious) as advance for
purposes of achieving one or more DLRs for which the Borrower shall
subsequently furnish to the Bank the evidence referred to in sub-paragraph (b) of
paragraph I of this sub-Section V.B; provided, however, that if by the Closing
Date the Borrower has withdrawn amounts in excess of the Allocated Amounts
authorized for disbursement as per Schedule 3 to this Agreement in respect of
documented/achieved DLRs, the Bank shall require the Borrower to refimd the
amounts of such excess to the Bank promply upon notice thereof by the Bank. in
order for the Bank to proceed with its cancellation. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
the Bank may. at any time, in its own discretion, exercise any of the actions set
forth in sub-paragraph 3(a) and/or 3(b) (below) of this sub-Section V.B in respect
of such amounts.
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.1(b) of this Section, if the Bank is not
satisfied that any of the DLR(s) set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement haslhve
been achieved by the end of the respective Year(s) in which said DLR(s) is/are set
to be achieved, andior the Allocated Amount(s) of such DLR(s) has/have not been
fully withdrawn, the Bank may, at any time, by notice to the Borrower, decide, in
its sole discretion, to:
(a) 
authorize the withdrawal of such lesser amount of the respective Loan
amount then allocated to said DLR(s) which, in the opinion of the Bank.
corresponds to the extent of achievement of said DLR(s);
(b) 
withhold all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said
DLR(s) until such DLR(s) is/are satisfactorily met- or
(c) 
reallocate all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said
DLR(s) to any other DLR(s); and/or
(d) 
cancel all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said
DLR(s).
-22-
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
%=ade for Eligible Expenditures under Category (2) for payments made prior to the
date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed USD 2,500,000 may be made for payments made not more than twelve
months prior to the date of this Agreement for Eligible Expenditures under
Category (2).
C. 
Withdrawal Conditions Applicable to the Operatkow: Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section V, if at any time after the
Closing Date the Borrower has failed to provide evidence satisfactory to the Bank
that the Withdrawn Loan Balance does not exceed the aggregate of the total
amount of Program Expenditures and Eligible Expenditures paid by the Borrower
on account of implementation ofthe Operation (exclusive of any such expenditures
financed by any other financier or by the Bank under any other loan, credit or
grant), the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refumd to the Bank
such excess amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance. The Bank shall cancel the
refunded amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance.
2. 
The Closing Date is March 31. 2023.
SCHEDULE 3
Disbursement Linked Indicators, Disbursement Linked Results and Allocated Amounts Applicable to the Program
RESULTu 
TO aE 
RmLTs TO sE 
REsULTS TO t 
RESLTS TO K 
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE
DisassseNT 
BASELINE 
AcuVD IN 
AcutE VEiD IN 
ACutEDS IN 
ACIEVED IN 
ACINVED IN 
AcHIEVED IN
INICE" 
FY2017/18 
FY201819 
FY209I120 
FY202021 
FY2021122 
FVY202223
INDICATORS* 
(YEA 1) 
(YEA 2) 
(YAa 3) 
(YAR 4) 
(YEA 5) 
(VEAX 6)
1. Traines who kave 
2 million 
2 76 million** 
3 78 million** 
5 06 million" 
6 33 million* 
7 60 million** 
8 87 million*
successft@y completed 
cumulative over 
cumuistive over 
cumulative over 
cumulative over 
cumulative over 
cuulatmsve over
Ihe MSQF-e*xtaid
baseline 
baseline 
bawline 
baseline 
baseline 
baseline
term SD prngraua and
were cenoled
Abecoeed 
Upon achievement of at least 50% of the target mentioned in each respective year. USS 514,286 for ewry 100.000 trainees traned in the
Ainsiew 
Years I to 3; US$ 308,571 lor every 100,000 tranes trained in the Years 4 to 6
USS 27,50.W 
I4500005 
00o
45%** of 
50%*** of
2. PfsceWntof 
27% of 
succeasfibl
gradrates 
hs 
are 
graduates are 
30%*** of graduates 
35%** of graduates 
40%9** of graduates 
students
wage isgrlyed or 
wage 
placed1sdf-emoployed 
plcedsf-employed 
plaoedself-empioyed 
placediscif-
sef-empyped 
employed or 
within six months of 
within six months of 
within six months of 
six months of 
employed within
Withl str sWeAkS 
self-employed 
Completion of SD 
completion of SD 
completion of SD 
w 
six months of
of-coarpaur Of 
within six 
progran training in 
program traisg in 
progran training in 
SD 
completion of
she 
rter SD 
months of 
Yew I 
Yew 2 
Yeaw 3 
trainn 
ea 
SD
progam 
completion of 
4 
training Yew
SD programs 
5
Agcred 
IUpon achievement of target mentioned in each respective year US$ 271,903 for every 100,000 trainees
Amant 
placdissif-eamployed within six months of completion of short-serm S) program training in Years I 
sto ad
* All the D)LIs presented in this Annex are not time-bound, except for results to be achieved in Year I for DLls 4, 5 and 6, which need to be achieved by March
31, 2018. For all other results, the Fiscal Years in which they are expected to be achieved are strictly for indicative purposes as they can be met at any time up
to the Closing Date.
*These are estimated projections of achievements. The minimum targets to trigger disbursements for each Year are 50% of these projections. i.e.
1.381,937; 1.891,186; 2.527,747; 3.164,308; 3,800,870; 4,437,444 for Years 1, 2. 3, 4, 5, and 6, respectively.
*In this case, these percentages represent the minimum real targets to be achieved based on the actual numbers of trainees successfully trained.
- 24 
REsUt.Ts To mE 
REumoTS TO DE 
REsULTs TO ev 
REsILIS TO BE 
REstiLTs 1o BE 
REsULTI TO BE
DImU~MENT 
AcuANEtIIVED am 
ACutIV~ IN 
A~ 
~Eg 
IN 
A~VClI)E IN 
AcHaEvEp m 
ACHIEVMD IM
LNKEP 
FV2017/1g 
FY2018/19 
FV2019/20 
FY220/21 
FV2021122 
FY2M22/I
INIcATORS, 
(VEAR 1) 
(VEAt 2) 
(YEAR 3) 
(YEAR 4) 
(YEAR 5) 
(VEA*6)
IISS 20,0^000, 
US$163.142 for every 100,000 trainees placed/self-employcd withän six months of completmon of short-term SD
prog 
traming in Yes 4 to 6
3. NSQFU agned 
(ii) The NSDA At kast 200 NSQC 
NQAF accreditation 
Teaching leaning 
QPS und teacing 
At lemat 1,000 
Accreditation,
Qps 
a 
e 
set up as the 
approved QPs made 
standards have been 
resource packs have 
Ieaumg pack based 
NSQC approved 
mssnent and
mom 
~am 
regulatory 
into model cumelum 
npped to ati TPs 
been developed nde 
on the mode 
QPs or 100% of 
certification
frävm års o åk a mm of die 
and100 job rolte for delver~a NSOF 
Creative Commons 
currcumn devetoped the existming QPs conducted
,~in icernig 
MSDE 
tr 
tona tdard 
quär hcatåi 
affiliated 
license for 80% job 
and approved by the 
(current or 
according to the
mumea 
developed accordmg 
with the NSDC and 
roles at kl 
5-7 of the 
NSQC for MSMEs 
revised) 
NQAF for alt
(00) The 
to NQAF Manuals 
the SSCS 
NSQF 
for at eat 100 job 
cumulattvety 
central end state
NQAF 
r 
ios in25 sectots 
from Yea 
l oe 
lovet short-term
overview 
covered by th 
trining
manual 
modet 
programs under
notifled en 
cw~ncuhum, 
the Progran
2015 
tramr guide.
and teachn&g
(bi) 40 SSCs 
etnifig
have been 
rource packa,
approvod, out 
md decksed on
of which 32 
the NSDM
we 
webuite
operational
1426 QPs
approved by
the NSQC
with limited
impat on SD
progrU%
ANcaeUS$6,500,000 
US$6,500,000 
US$2,000,000 
US$500,000 
US$500.000 
UiS$250),000
US$1d,250,000
- 25 
REtn.u To Se 
RESU;Ts TO «E 
RutiuT TO oE 
REsiic to mE 
Rm.ni 
To m 
RSUT3 
To mE
DssUnsMMT 
BSI 
ACIuEVED IN 
ACmevED IN 
ACIEMVED IN 
ACIEVED IN 
AmieVEm 
mN 
ACHIEvu IN
INKID 
FY2017/8 
FY2M1g/19 
FYZIIIW2I 
FY282w21 
FY2021/22 
FY2022/23
INnicA^s* 
(YAt 1) 
(ViA2) 
(YEAR3) 
(YEan4) 
(VEAS) 
(YFAR 6)
Insufficiently 
ToT progms
skilled 
TrainingofTTr~r 
Al 
ty ofpthe 
TOT 
Pprog 
cgdme 
m
trinen, l" 
(TOl) ad asr 
curret Al delivering ToT program execmted conducted m 
on~i
4Neber 
of 
oquøi" 
plan fr exiting and 
NSQF compliant 
in cmplimce with 
complimance with 
~ 
w 
wg 
NSl
en 
potential tran 
qualincations; and at 
NSQF for at lea 7,500 
NSQF for at least ffi N 2Q 0 fum000
øcreated and approved, 
eat 4,750 train and 
traners and 1.500 
10,000 tramer and
neI CPD medstes 
quetonable 
nlung Me~ 
en m 
750 mos have 
ua 
a cumultimvely 
2,000 amens 
2,500 ae 
3,000
design, and nmerials 
be=n tuand with new 
llrom Year 2 
cuu8tvely from 
a 
m 
non0
for new "K~ 
muk 
Yend 2om 
Year 2 
cm~lively
I - - -
-
lIm 
Y#ar 2
Aeafrdt 
US$ 
US$30.000 for every 100 trainers and US$ 100,000 for every 100 am~r 
tra~ued upo" chievement of target
1 &75 
US$ 1,250,000ho 
t 
in te m~ve Year
Several MIS 
(i) At leit 25
blocks are in 
(i) The National Skills 
At elet ve centra 
Pattc~ptng
plac 
Research Dvision 
schmens (including 
The second 
States have
5. A lsryng 4 pe nationaly and 
(NSRD) bas been 
SDMS) have a MIS 
T 
t1m 
At east 16 SSIMs in 
tr-œr Mtudy 
submitted data
te Nnderrgke Må 
E 
i state levet. 
flma 
sy cstablihed; p pl and at 
(incling the 
VY) toa PMKVY) h ennbited (including the to tie LMIS. (i)
ofSDp-gran 
, bu( desgn is 
ad 
least 10 SSDMS 
in 
~ 
hp 
data to the L.MIS 
PMKVY) report 
Ai data
he m 
el and 
fagnnted 
(di Th 
NSRD) ha 
PS 
dislosed by the NSRID 
ha. been 
incorpoaed in
and reliability 
cetd a buhne 
submined da to the 
disclosed by the 
fld SIMO
of data 
report for SIMO's 
I-MIS 
NSRD 
mpact
questionable 
eva 
evaluation
_ _ 
_ 
_ 
_report
US$ 4,125,000
Affec~rdAnnt 
(i) USS 2.500.000 
(US $275.000 pr 
USS 1,500,000 
(i) US$
cnr 
n2a~mt 
USD 2,375,000 
(US$250,000 per 
U SD 500,000 
1.500.000
/S 
3 
(ISI 2,000000 
#c~ 
nd per 
SSDM) 
(ii) US$ 500.000
SSDM)
6.Part mp b 
Win Statesm 
Participrg 
S 
Partipating States 
Patipatin 
ticpating
PState Ofi 
t 
have improvedi their 
have improved their 
have i 
~proved their State& have States have
s~u. om 
S)scrcr
i***~ 
(SIG) Scoebd 
Sem scores by 15 
SIG sco~s by 15 poS 
SIG scores by 15 
=mproved their 
improved their
saF.famin.lL~L 
(ScorecmOud> h 
been 
poits over the 
over tie prev~ie Lea, 
poit 
*Ve 
the 
SIG sco~ 
by 
SIG aes 
by
- 26 
RESUT TO BI 
REUTS To DE 
RiSU:ms To et 
RESIL 
TO gt 
RUM,T:1 To 1i 
RESILTs To ar
DISBURLSEMLNT 
BASELINE 
AcIEtVE IN 
ACIEVEr IN 
ACiliVED IN 
AcitEVED IN 
ACHIEVED IN 
AIEVED IN
LINED 
FY2017/18 
FY211/119 
FY2919/20 
FY2S2O/21 
FY2021122 
FY2822/23
INEWATOS* 
(YKAIt 1) 
(YLAn 
2) 
(YEA 
3) 
(VEAm 
4) 
(YEARS) 
(YEAR6)
marker relevace of 
calculawed for ech 
bmeline, with at kast 
with at least 3 points in 
prevous year, with at 
I5 points over 
Is points over
SD progrmns, and 
state 
3 points in eich 
each component of the 
least 3 poets in eacb 
tlie previous 
the previous
access m and 
component of the 
Scorecard 
conponent of the 
year, with at 
yew, with at
cofpf~on of 
Scecard 
Scorecard 
leat 3 polm in 
least 3 poits in
tradt by 
component 
each component
margifafted 
of te Scorecard 
ofhe
populCMdms 
Scorecard)
A Necaread Awnus
Liss 190,011111 
US$ 10,000,0o0 for each Low ncome Pracipinmg State and USS 5,000,000f 
every other Partcépating State
US$ 10,000,000 
tat amet the above-nuntioed 
tage in te respeedve Year
current 
Participation of 
Paticipaion of
pøreisPartcapfron 
women and 
women and
pw 
an S and 
of w 
e in 
~disadvantaed 
group 
disadvanagd
sr, dnd PWD 
SD pograms 
in SD progruam has 
osin SD
paricip 
g in 
SD 
m31% 
ic~ 
to 
proramm ha
Partsipation 
cm 
d lo.
of SCs and 
"Men 
-YÅWomen 
- 33%
ST inSd) 
SCi and STa - 21% 
Women - 34%
ptograms 15 
E . Ui- 
PWD - 0 R% 
SCs andST* 
18% 
22%
PWD -
1%
of Persons
Wih
DIabiity
(PWD) in SD
progra 
is
Us$ 10,000,000 
US$ 15 
000 
US$ 1,000,0
US$on 
12,Cttdeelpe m,20000O
5. J~ pulrime and 
CSR provides 
a 
At kw 
0 At b 
US
~ 
s 
m _ _ 
pd__ 
bm dev 
d and 
2,00,000 
2,0000
-27-
Rrsai.n 
aE 
REs~ 
To at 
REstLran 
REstrat 
E 
REs o 
aE 
RES 
ToanE
IisBURsEENT 
BASELINE 
ACInEVI 
IN 
AcI.iiVED IN 
ACIEVED IN 
A-m£VE~ 
tN 
AcH&vE 
mN 
AclIEtvE IN
INKED 
FY2017118 
FY2018119 
F¥2019/20 
FY2028/2t 
FY2021/22 
FY2022/23
INDICATORS* 
(YEAR 1) 
(YEAR 2) 
(YEAR 3) 
(YEAR 4) 
(YeAR 5) 
(¥EAN 6)
funiN 
firms to 
additiotal CSR flnds 
in CSR 1ad1
succPsfly 
contribute 2% 
(ti) At least USS 
o Year I have been 
additional to Yer 2
chanrneied and 
of thear profits 
2.000,000 
credited to tie CSR 
have ben crdited to
utdized int proity 
to community 
CSR 
ads have been 
Skihs Fund 
the CSR Skdis Fund
SD MrttI~ 
development 
credited to the CSR
ffiudng 
SD 
Skills Fund 
(i) At east 50% of
No CSR Funds conuibatd
transparent 
by the end of Year I
and reliable 
have been successflly
nmechanism 
utilzd
eists to
mobilize CSR
funda for SD
AUcred 
Amunt 
Upon achoevemnt of tarbet above mentione 
¯ 
Upon acieveentt of
IS$ 
for every US$ I of private fknds creditd 
targets (i) and (ii) tove
ISS 36,875,NO 
to the CSR Skills Fund 
mentioned in ech Year.
US l for every US$ i
of private I~ads
crdited to the CSR
Skils Pund catingeni
on succssmiul use of the
ftilldli
SCHEDULE 4
Amertization Scheduk
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
lastallment Share
(Epesdas a Perceae)
On each February 15. and August 15
Beginning on August 15, 2023 
4.17%
Through August 15, 2034
On February 15. 2035 
4.09%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the dae of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule. to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
- 29 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date. be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either. (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
- 30 
APPENDIX
Section L Defllitions
1. 
"Allocated Amounts" means the amount in United States dollars allocated to each
individual DLR, or determined for each DLR pursuant to the formula detailed, in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement, as such amount might be increased, reallocated
andior cancelled (whether partially or in its entirety) by the Bank, from time to
time, as the case may be, in accordance with the provisions of Section V.B.3 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section TV.A.2 of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
3. 
"Consultant's Guidelines" mcans the -Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
4. 
"Corporate Social Responsibility" and the acronym "CSR" mean the activities
carried out by corporations in the private sector to contribute to good community
relations.
5. 
"CPD" means continuous professional development.
6. 
"CSR Skills Fund" means the portion of the NSDF that will be financed through
the private sector contributions and the Bank matching component and whose
proceeds and transactions will be visible on the S2J Platform.
7. 
"CSR Skills Funds Manual" means the Borrower's manual, satisfactory to the
Bank. for purposes of carrying out the activities related to the CSR Skills Fund,
which manual shall comprise, inter alia: composition and termns of reference of the
Skills Fund Management Team, composition and terms of reference of the Skills
Fund Oversight Committee, and detailed governance mechanism and business
processes for the operations of the fund.
8. 
"Disbursement Linked Indicator" or "DL" means each of the disbursement linked
indicators listed in the first column of the matrix set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
9. 
"Disbursement Linked Result" or "DLR" means each of the disbursement linked
targets/results set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement in the columns entitled
"Results to be Achieved in FY2017118 (Year i)", "Results to be Achieved in
FY2018/19 (Year 2)", "Results to be Achieved in FY2019/20 (Year 3)", Results
to be Achieved in FY2020/21 (Year 4)", "Results to be Achieved in FY2021/22
(Year 5)" or "Results to be Achieved in FY2022/23 (Year 6)". as applicable.
-31 
10. 
-District Skills Development Plan" and the acronym "DSDP" mean the annual
plan prepared by the districts based on the SIG criteria incorporating inter-state
and intra-state migration trends and numbers, linkages with MSME sectors,
outreach strategies and pilots for marginalized communities.
11. 
"ESSA" means the Environmental and Social Systems Assessment, dated June
2016 and published in Infoshop on June 1, 2016 applicable to the Program, setting
forth the description of the Program's activities, assessing the Borrower's and
Participating States' environmental and social management systems, detailing the
Program's 
environmental and social benefits. 
risks, and impacts, 
and
recommending remedial measures to strengthen the social and environmental
systems performance.
12. 
"Fiscal Year" or "FY" means the Borrower's. Participating Staies' fiscal year, as
the case may be. For purposes of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, FY means the
Borrower's fiscal year which begins on April I of each calendar year and ends on
March 31 of the next calendar year.
13. 
"General Conditions" means:
(a) 
For the Project: the -International 
Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with
the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix, and
(b) 
For the Program: the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loan", dated March 12, 2012, with
the modifications set forth in Section II and III of this Appendix.
14. 
"tUFRs" means the interim unaudited financial reports referred to in Section OLD
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement-
I5. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the incremental expenditures for salaries of
contractual staff (other than consuhants, per diems, office rental, office supplies,
utilities, conveyance, travel and boarding/lodging allowances, operation and
maintenance of office equipment and vehicles, advertising expenses .and bank
charges, insurance, media broadcastings. newspaper subscriptions, periodicals,
and printing and stationery costs incurred by either the Borrower, the Participating
States in connection with the management. coordination and implementation of
Operations' activities, which expenditures would not have been incurred absent
the Operation, but excluding salaries and salary top-ups of the Borrower's and
Participating States' civil servants.
-32-
16. 
"IVA" means the Independent Verification Agent to be appointed by the Borrower
for the purpose of verifying DLRs in accordance with Section I.A(e) of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
17. 
"Letter of Undertaking" means the agreement to be entered into by and between
MSDE and a State willing to take pat in the Program pursuant to Section .G(3)
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
i8. 
"LMIS" means the Borrower's national Labor Market Information System to be
established as part of the Program.
19. 
"Low income Participating State" means any of the Participating States among
Bihar, Chhattisgarh. Jharkhand. Madhya Pradesh. Odisha, Rajasthan, and Utter
Pradesh.
20. 
"MSDE" means the Borrower's Ministry 
of Skills 
Development and
Entrepreneurship or any successor thereto.
21. 
"NSDA" means the Borrower's National Skills Development Agency or any
successor thereto.
22. 
"NSDC" means the Borrower's National Skills Development Corporation, or any
successor thereto.
23. 
"NSDF" means the Borrower's National Skills Development Fund established by
the Government of India.
24. 
"NSDM" means the Borrower's National Skill Development Mission.
25. 
"NSRD" means the Borrower's National Skills Research Division. or any
successor thereto.
26. 
"NSQF" means the Borrower's National Skills Qualifications Framework
established by the Government of India.
27. 
-Operation" means, collectively, all activities described under the Program and the
Project in Schedule I to this Agreement.
28. 
"Participating State" means a State that has entered into a Letter of Undertaking
with the MSDE for purposes of qualifying to participate in activities financed by
the Program.
29. 
"PMKVY- means the Borrower's Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana.
-33-
30. 
"PMU" means MSDE's Program Management Unit, to be established by the
Borrower pursuant to sub-paragraph (c) of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
31. 
"PPP" means private-public partnership.
32. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
33. 
"Procurement Plan" means the procurement plan for the Project, dated May 24,
2017. and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
34. 
"Program" means, collectively, the activities described in Part I of the Schedule I
to this Agreement.
35. 
"Program Action Plan" means the set of priority actions agreed by the Borrower
and the Bank for the strengthening of the Borrower', the Participating States',
sectoral and institutional frameworks (including the Program Fiduciary and
Environmental and Social Systems), dated May 24,2017, and referred o in Section
I.F of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as may be amended from time to time with
the written agreement of the Bank.
36. 
"Program Fiduciary and Environmental and Social Systems" means the
Borrower's, Participating States' systems for the Program referred to in Section
LD of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
37. 
"Program Appraisal Board" and the acronym "PAB" mean the body to be
established by the Borrower pursuant to sub-paragraph (d) of Section LA of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
38. 
"Project" means the activities described in Part II of the Schedule I to this
Agreement.
39. 
"PWD" means persons with disabilities.
40. 
"QPs" mean qualification packs setting out skill qualification requirements for
identified sectors.
41. 
"SC" means a scheduled caste set out in the Constitution of India and as amended
from time to time.
-34 
42. 
-SD" means skills development in line with the Borrower*s National Policy for
Skills Development and Entrepreneurship (2017-2023), of a short term nature
(usually three to six months or up to 600 hours), excluding longer-term programs
delivered by industrial training institutes under the Directorate General of
Training.
43. 
"SIMO" means Skill India Mission, which is the Operation that is the subject of
Schedule I to this Agreement.
44. 
"SSC" means a Sector Skills Council. established as an autonomous industry-
led body by the NSDC.
45. 
"SSDM" means a state skills development mission established by Participating
States
46. 
"SSDP" means the annual plan prepared by the States based on the SIG criteria
incorporating inter-state and intra-state migration trends and numbers, linkages
with MSME sectors, outreach strategies and pilots for marginalized communities.
47. 
"States" means any of the states or union territories of the Borrower.
48. 
"States incentive Grants Scorecard" means the criteria against which SIG
performance will be measured as set out in the SIG Manual. including: (i)
strengthened institutional mechanisms; (ii) improved quality and market relevance
of SD programs; and (iii) improved access and completion of skill training for
women and disadvantaged groups.
49. 
"ST" means a scheduled tribe set out in the Constitution of India and as amended
from time to time.
50. 
"State Incentive Grant" or "SIG" means the performance based grant funding to
be provided by MSDE to a Participating State, in the amounts and under the terms
and conditions set forth in the respective Letter of Undertaking and in accordance
with the SIG Manual.
51. 
"State Incentive Grant Manual" or "SIG Manual" means the Bormwer's manual.
satisfactory to the Bank, for purposes of carrying out the activities related to the
State Incentive Grants, which manual shall comprise. irer alia (i) the SIG
implementation arrangements: (ii) the eligibility criteria and screening protocols
and procedures for the assessment and selection of Participating States proposals
to be financed under SIGs; (iii) the environmental, social. labor and safety,
financial management and procurement standards to be followed by MSDE and
the Participating States in the implementation of their respective activities in
relation to SIGs. (iv) the terms and conditions applicable to SIGs; (v) the templates
for the SIG agreements; and (vi) the SIG monitoring and evaluation, and reporting
-35-
requirements, including the format of the IUFRs and the format for progress
reports, as the same might be amended from time to time with the prior written
concurrence of the Bank.
52. 
"S2J Platform" means the Borrower's Skills to Jobs technology platform for
monitoring of CSR Skills Fund.
53. 
"TP" means Training Providers.
54. 
"TPPF" means the Borrower's Tribal People Planning Framework, published in
Infoshop on October 7, 2016, which sets forth, inter alia: (a) the protocols for
screening the Operation's activities and identifying and assessing any potential
Operation-related social impact on Tribal Groups; and (b) preparing any mitigetion
actions therefore (i.e. Tribal Peoples' plans); as well as (c) the monitoring and
reporting requirements in relation thereto. The TPPF may be amended from time
to time with the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
55. 
"Training and Workshops" means the training, study tours, confemences and
workshops conducted and/or atended by staff from MSDE and/or other
stakeholders, in the territory of the Borrower or, subject to the Banks' prior no
objection, overseas, including the purchase and publication of materials, rental of
facilities, course fees, and lodging, travel expenses and per diems for trainers
and/or trainees.
56. 
"Tribal Groups" means any distinct, vulnerable, social and cultural group within
the territory of the Borrower, that: (i) self-identifies as such anid claims, and is
recognized by others as, having a distinguishable cultural identity; (i) has
collective attachment to geographically distinct habita or ancestral territories in
the Project area, and to the natural resources in these habitat and territories (iii)
has customary cultural, economic, social and political institutions that are separate
from those of the dominant society and culture; and (iv) has an indigenous
language, often different from the official languages of the Borrower.
57. 
"Year" means any of the Years I through 6 of Program implementation, and the
context shall determine.
58. 
"Year I" means the first year of implementation of Program activities, whichvhave
taken place in the Borrower's Fiscal Year 2017/18 in order to achieve the results
shown in the third column of the table in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
59. 
Year 2" means the second year of implementation of Program activities, expected
to take place in the Borrower's Fiscal Year 2018/19 in order to achieve the results
shown in the fourth column of the table in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
-36-
60. 
"Year 3" means the third year of implementation of Program activities, expected
to take place in the Borrower's Fiscal Year 2019/20 in order to achieve the results
shown in the fifth column of the table in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
61. 
"Year 4- means the fourth year of implementation of Program activities, expected
to take place in the Borrower's Fiscal Year 2020/21 in order to achieve the results
shown in the sixth column of the table in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
62. 
"Year 5" means the fifth year of implementation of Program activities, expected
to take place in the Borrower's Fiscal Year 2021/22 in order to achieve the results
shown in the seventh column of the table in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
63. 
"Year 6" means the sixth year of implementation of Program activities, expected
to take place in the Borrower's Fiscal Year 2022/23 in order to achieve the results
shown in the eighth column of the table in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section II 
Modfications to the Geseral Coaditlons for purposes of Project sad
Program Implementatio
The modifications of the General Conditions for the Project and Program are as
follows:
I. 
Whenever used throughout the General Conditions, the ten "Project Report" is
modified to read "Progress Report".
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows.
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-ed Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. 
The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date."
3. 
In the Appendix. Defrmitions. all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
-37-
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of"Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
in the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix. the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest the Front-
end Fee, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), the Commitment Charge. any
surcharge and any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or
early termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any). any
premium payable upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
Section in. 
Modificatios to the Geseral Cooditens ad Section II above for
purpose of Program Implementatiou.
The modification to the General Conditions for the Program are as follows:
1 
Wherever used throughout the General Conditions, the term "the Project" is
modified to read "the Program", the term "the Project Agreement" is modified to
read "the Program Agrement", the term "Project Implementing Entity" is
modified to read "the Program Implementing Entity", the term "Project Report" is
modified to read "Program Report", and the term "Eligible Expenditures" is
modified to read "Program Expenditures".
2. 
In the Table of Contests, the references to Sections. Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the amendments set forth below.
3. 
Section 2.02, Special Commitment by the Bank, is deleted in its entirety. and the
subsequent Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
-38-
4. 
In Section 2.02 (originally numbered as Section 2.03). the heading "Applicatioa
for Withdrawal or for Special Commimentf is replaced with "Applications for
Withdrawal". and the phrase -or to request the Bank to enter into a Special
Commitment" is deleted.
5. 
The section originally numbered as Section 2.04, Designared Accorts is deleted
in its entirety, and the subsequent Sections in Article I are renumbered
accordingly.
6. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (originally numbered as Section 2.05), Eligible
Expenditures (renamed -Program Expenditures" in accordance with paragraph I
of this Section II), is modified to read: -(a) the payment is for the financing of the
reasonable cost of expenditures required for the Program and to be flaunced out of
the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of the Legal
Agreements:".
7. 
The last sentence of Section 2.04 (originally numbered as Section 2.06), Financing
Taxes, is modified to read: "To that end, if the Bank at any time determines that
the amount of any such Tax is excessive, or that such Tax is discriminstory or
otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, exclude such
amount or such Tax from the Program Expenditures to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, as required to ensure consistency with such policy of the
Bank."
8. 
Section 2.06 (originally numbered as Section 2.08), Reallocation, is modified to
read:
"Notwithstanding any allocation of an amount of the Loan to a withdrawal
category under the Loan Agreement, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
reallocate any other amount of the Loan to such category if the Bank reasonably
determines at any time that such reallocation is appropriate for the purposes of the
Program."
9. 
Section 7.01, Cancellation by the Borrower. is modified to read: "The Borrower
may, by notice to the Bank cancel any amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance."
10. 
Paragraph 
(d) 
of Section 
7.03, 
Cancellation 
by 
the Bank, 
entitled
"Misprocurement, 
is deleted, and subsequent paragraphs are relettered
accordingly.
11. 
Section 7.04, Amounts Subject to Special Commitment not Affected by
Cancellation or Suspension by the Bank, is deleted in its entirety, and subsequent
Sections in Article VII and references to such Sections are renumbered
accordingly.
-39-
12. 
In the Appendix, Deflaties. all references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified. as necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above.
13. 
Renumbered paragraph 88 (originally paragraph 87) of the Appendix. setting forth
the definition of "Special Commitment" is deleted in its entirety, and all
subsequent paragraphs are renumbered accordingly.
