OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8705-LB
CFF TF NUMBER TF0A4481
Loan Agreement
(Roads and Employment Project)
between
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
LM\e- 
, 2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8705-LB
CFF TF NUMBER TF0A4481
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT 
dated 
J 
2 ( 
, 
2017, 
between 
the
LEBANESE REPUBLIC ("Borrower") and the INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank").
WHEREAS (A) following an international effort to provide development support
to countries most affected by refugees in the Middle East region; and having satisfied itself
as to the feasibility and priority of the Project aimed, in part, at creating short term jobs for
Lebanese and Syrians, as further described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, the Borrower
has requested the Bank to extend a loan to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B) 
funding from the Concessional Financing Facility was received by the
Bank for purposes of providing concessionality to this Agreement;
(C) 
under the terms of a Financial Procedures Arrangement with the Trustee
of the Concessional Financing Facility dated August 10, 2016, the Bank has agreed to
provide additional funds to the Borrower (the Concessional Portion of the Loan as
hereinafter defined) as part of an integrated lending operation under the terms of this
Agreement; and
NOW THEREFORE, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to extend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth
or referred to in this Agreement, a Loan on concessional terms in the amount of
two hundred million United States Dollars (US$200,000,000) to assist in financing
the Project described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project") consisting of the
following:
-2-
(a) 
a non-concessional portion of the Loan in an amount of one hundred fifty-
four 
million 
six 
hundred 
thousand 
United 
States 
Dollars
(US$154,600,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of
Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan");
and
(b) 
a concessional portion of the Loan in an amount of forty-five million four
hundred thousand United States Dollars (US$45,400,000) ("Concessional
Portion of the Loan").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall
be deposited by the Bank into an account specified by the Borrower and acceptable
to the Bank.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan.
2.04. 
(a) 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one
quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Balance of
the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan.
(b) 
The Commitment Charge shall not be applied to the Concessional Portion
of the Loan.
2.05. 
(a) 
The interest payable by the Borrower on the Non-Concessional Portion of
the Loan for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the Reference
Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, however, that
the interest payable shall in no event be less than zero percent (0%) per
annum; and provided furthermore that, upon a Conversion of all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Non-Concessional Portion of the
Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period
on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Balance of the Non-
Concessional Portion of the Loan remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable
by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e)
of the General Conditions.
(b) 
The Concessional Portion of the Loan shall be made on a grant basis.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
-3-
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan shall be repaid
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan in order to
facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Non-Concessional Portion
of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a
change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Non-Concessional Portion
of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Reference Rate and the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a
Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of
the principal amount of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Non-Concessional Portion of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate
Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in
accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-4-
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Council for
Development and Reconstruction ("CDR" or "Project Implementing Entity") in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the
Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that the
Project Implementing Entity's Legislation has been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability
of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and the
Project Implementing Entity.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the Subsidiary
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Project
Implementing Entity and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the Project
Implementing Entity in accordance with its terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred eighty (180) days after the date
of this Agreement.
-5-
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Riad El-Solh Square
Beirut
Lebanese Republic
Facsimile:
+961 1 642 762
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-6-
AGREED at Beirut, Lebanese Republic, as of the day and year first above written.
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
By
Authorized Representative
Title: 
P-nClaC_
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
H G 
-LN 
VV,
Title: 
Ui ICA..
SCHEDULE1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) improve transport connectivity along select
paved road sections; and (ii) create short term jobs for Lebanese and Syrians.
The Project consists of the following activities:
Part A. Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance
1. 
Carrying out a program of activities to rehabilitate, upgrade and maintain selected
primary, secondary and tertiary roads, including road safety and spot
improvements ("Sub-projects").
2. 
Provision of technical assistance for the design, procurement and supervision of
said Sub-projects and for preparation of Safeguards Instruments for the Project.
Part B. Improving Road Emergency Response Capacity
Strengthening the capacity of MoPWT to respond to weather and other
emergencies affecting the road network, through:
1. 
Provision of emergency road works related tools, equipment and vehicles; and
2. 
Provision of technical assistance for updating its emergency response systems and
procedures.
Part C. Capacity Building and Implementation Support
1. 
Strengthening national road asset management through, inter alia, the
establishment of a national road asset database for the trunk network, review and
updating of road network design and maintenance standards, preparation of a
routine and periodic maintenance manual for small contractors, preparation of
bidding documents for small contractors, and provision of training on performance
based contracts for periodic and routine road maintenance.
2. 
Strengthening implementation of road safety measures through, inter alia,
preparation and implementation of a national strategy and action plan on road
safety.
3. 
Undertaking 
required 
feasibility 
studies, 
technical 
designs, 
financial,
environmental and social impacts studies.
-8-
4. 
Provision of training for key CDR and MoPWT staff, workers and small
contractors on: 
(i) proper routine and periodic maintenance 
standards,
environmental and social safeguards measures as well as health and safety
measures; and (ii) preparation of a supervision manual.
5. 
Strengthening the capacity of the CDR for Project implementation and
management (including, monitoring and evaluation) through the provision of
technical assistance, operating costs and acquisition of goods for the purpose.
-9-
SCHEDULE2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
In order to ensure proper and efficient implementation of Project activities, the
Borrower shall maintain at all times during the implementation of the Project, the
Project Implementing Entity, with a mandate, staffing and other resources
satisfactory to the Bank.
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds
of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity under a subsidiary
agreement between the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity ("PIE"),
under terms and conditions approved by the Bank ("Subsidiary Agreement").
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish
the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its
provisions.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall cause the PIE to ensure that the Project is carried out in
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D. 
Safeguards
I. 
The Borrower shall cause the PIE to ensure that the Project is carried out in
accordance with the provisions of the Safeguards Instruments. In particular, the
Borrower shall cause the PIE to:
(a) 
not later than one (1) month after the Effective date, prepare in form and
substance 
acceptable 
to the 
Bank, 
and 
thereafter 
disclose 
an
Environmental and Social Management Framework ("ESMF") detailing:
(i) 
the guidelines, procedures and timetables for the carrying out of
environmental and social assessments under the Project;
-10-
(ii) 
the measures to be taken during the implementation of the Project
to eliminate or offset adverse environmental and social impacts,
or to reduce them to acceptable levels; and
(iii) 
the actions needed to implement these measures, including
monitoring and institutional strengthening.
(b) 
prepare, in form and substance acceptable to the Bank, and prior to the
commencement of any works under said activity:
(i) 
a site specific Environmental and Social Impact Assessment
("ESIA"), if any Project activity would, pursuant to the ESMF,
require the carrying out of an ESIA for such activity, ensuring that
such ESIA is: (A) prepared in accordance with the requirements
of the ESMF and furnished to the Bank for review and approval;
and (B) disclosed in-country as required by the ESMF and
approved by the Bank; or
(ii) 
a site specific Environmental and Social Management Plan
("ESMP"), if any Project activity would, pursuant to the ESMF,
require the carrying out of an ESMP for such activity, ensuring
that such ESMP is: (A) prepared in accordance with the ESMF
and furnished to the Bank for review and approval, and (B)
disclosed in-country as required by the ESMF and approved by
the Bank.
(c) 
not later than one (1) month after the Effective date, prepare in form and
substance acceptable to the Bank, a Resettlement Policy Framework
("RPF") setting forth the modalities for resettlement and compensation of
Affected Persons under the Project. To this end, the Borrower shall ensure
that the following actions are taken in a manner acceptable to the Bank: if
a Resettlement Action Plan ("RAP") would be required for any Project
activity on the basis of the RPF: (i) said RAP shall be prepared in
accordance with the requirements of the RPF, furnished to the Bank for
review and approval, and disclosed as required by the RPF and approved
by the Bank; and (ii) no works under said activity shall be commenced
until all measures required to be taken under said RAP prior to the
initiation of said works have been taken, including: (A) compensation of
Affected Persons, when and if required under a RAP; (B) a report, in form
and substance satisfactory to the Bank, on the status of compliance with
the requirements of said RAP has been prepared and furnished to the Bank;
and (C) the Bank has confirmed that the implementation of said activity
may be commenced.
-11-
2. 
The Borrower shall not amend or waive, or permit to be amended or waived, any
Safeguard Instrument, or any provision of any one thereof, without the prior
written approval of the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the PIE to ensure that all measures for carrying out the
recommendations of the Safeguard Instruments are implemented in a timely
manner.
4. 
Without limitation upon its other reporting obligations under this Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause the PIE to: (a) include in the Project Reports referred to in
Section II.A of this Schedule adequate information on monitoring the measures
defined in the Safeguard Instruments, giving details of: (i) measures taken in
furtherance of such Safeguard Instruments; (ii) conditions, if any, which interfere
or threaten to interfere with the smooth implementation of such Safeguard
Instruments; and (iii) remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address
such conditions and to ensure the continued efficient and effective implementation
of such Safeguard Instruments; and (b) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity
to exchange views with the PIE on such reports.
5. 
Each such report referred to in paragraph 4(a) above shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall cause the PIE to monitor and evaluate the progress of the
Project and to prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the
Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of six (6) months, and shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period
covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the PIE to maintain a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the PIE to prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than
thirty (30) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial
reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to
the Bank.
-12-
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the PIE to have its Financial Statements audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each
audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the
Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
Section HI. 
Procurement
All goods, works, non-consulting services and consulting services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in the Procurement
Regulations and the provisions of the Procurement Plan.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised
from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant
to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
-13-
Amount of the 
Amount of the
Non- 
Concessional
Concessional 
Portion of the 
Percentage of
Portion of the 
Loan 
Expenditures to be
Loan 
Allocated 
financed
Category 
Allocated 
(expressed in 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(expressed in 
USD)
USD)
(1) Goods, works, non- 
154,213,500 
45,400,000 
100%
consulting services,
consulting services,
Training and
Operating Costs for
the Project
(2) Front-end Fee to be 
386,500 
0 
Amount payable
paid pursuant to 
pursuant to Section
Section 2.03 of this 
2.03 of this
Agreement in 
Agreement in
accordance with 
accordance with
Section 2.07(b) of the 
Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions 
General Conditions
(relating to
Capitalizing Front-
end Fee and Interest)
(3) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
0 
Amount due pursuant
Interest Rate Collar 
to Section 2.08(c) of
premium to be paid 
this Agreement
pursuant to Section
2.08(c) of this
Agreement in
accordance with
Section 4.05 of the
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
154,600,000 
45,400,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$20,000,000 may
be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after March 15,
2017, for Eligible Expenditures; or
-14-
(b) 
from the Loan Account unless each withdrawal is made on a pari passu
basis and at a 77.25%:22.75% ratio between the amount of the Non-
Concessional Portion of the Loan allocated and the amount of the
Concessional Portion of the Loan allocated.
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2022.
-15-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Non-
Concessional Portion of the Loan and the percentage of the total principal amount
of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Non-Concessional Portion of the
Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the
principal amount of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan
as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each
Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to
deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a
Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each March 15 and September 15
Beginning March 15, 2024, through 
1.96%
September 15, 2048
On March 15, 2049 
2%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan have not been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Non-
Concessional Portion of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Non-Concessional Portion of the
Loan have been withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the
Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional
Portion of the Loan as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
-16-
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan withdrawn within
two calendar months prior to any Principal Payment Date shall, for the
purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable on any
Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall
be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Balance of the Non-
Concessional Portion of the Loan to an Approved Currency, the amount so
converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal Payment
Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge
Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the
Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan is
denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall
apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-17-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Derinitions
"Affected Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of the Project
would suffer direct economic and social impacts resulting in: (a) relocation or loss
of shelter; (b) loss of assets or access to assets; (c) loss of income sources or means
of livelihood, whether or not the affected persons must move to another location;
and (d) adverse impacts on the livelihoods of the affected persons.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as
of July 1, 2016.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
4. 
"Council for Development and Reconstruction" and "CDR" each means a public
authority established and operating pursuant to the Legislative Decree No. 5 dated
January 31, 1977, and the Law No. 295 dated April 3, 2001, or any successor
thereto.
5. 
"Concessional Financing Facility" and "CFF" each means the financing facility
established with a focus on providing concessional financing to middle income
countries most affected by the presence of large numbers of refugees, with an
initial focus on the Syrian refugee crisis as it impacts Jordan and Lebanon, and
referred to in the Preamble to this Agreement.
6. 
"Concessional Portion of the Loan" means the amount of the Loan referred to in
Section 2.01(b) of this Agreement; which has been contributed for the Project from
the CFF on grant basis.
7. 
"Environmental and Social Impact Assessment" or "ESIA" means, with respect to
each activity under the Project pursuant to which the ESMF requires an
environmental and social impact assessment, such assessment, carried out in
accordance with the provisions of Section I.C of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.
8. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the
document to be prepared and adopted by the Borrower for the Project, pursuant to
the provisions of Section I.C of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, which sets
forth the modalities for site-specific environmental screening and procedures/actions
for the preparation and implementation of ESIAs and ESMPs under the Project, the
set of mitigation, monitoring, and institutional measures and procedures required
-18-
in order to eliminate adverse environmental and social impacts, offset them, or
reduce them to acceptable levels, as well as actions needed to implement said
measures, as the same may be amended from time to time with the Bank prior
written approval.
9. 
"Environmental and Social Management Plan" or "ESMP" means, for a given
Project activity, a site-specific environmental and social management plan for said
activity to be prepared pursuant to the ESMF, and giving details of specific actions
and setting forth the mitigating, monitoring and institutional measures to be taken
during the implementation and operation of the Project to offset or reduce adverse
environmental impacts to levels acceptable to the Bank, including the budget and
cost estimates, and sources of funding, along with the institutional and procedural
measures needed to implement such actions, measures and policies and the parties
responsible for executing works and monitoring of construction and operational
impact, as the said document may be amended and/or supplemented from time to
time with the prior written concurrence of the Bank and subject to same initial
consultation and disclosure requirements carried out for the ESMF.
10. 
"Financial Procedure Arrangement" means the arrangement between the Bank and
the CFF referred to in the Preamble to this Agreement.
11. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
12. 
"Loan" means the aggregate of the Concessional Portion of the Loan and the Non-
Concessional Portion of the Loan as set forth in Section 2.01 of this Agreement.
13. 
"MoPWT" means the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works and Transport, or any
successor thereto.
14. 
"Operating Costs" means incremental costs incurred on account of the Project
coordination, implementation and monitoring, including expenditures for vehicle
operation 
and maintenance, 
office 
supplies 
and consumables, utilities,
communication, translation and interpretation, bank charges, Project-related
travel, including per diem and accommodation, but excluding salaries of the
Borrower's civil servants, and other miscellaneous costs directly associated with
the Project implementation.
15. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
January 31, 2017, and provided for under Section IV of the Procurement
Regulations, as the same may be updated from time to time in agreement with the
Bank.
-19-
16. 
"Procurement Regulations" means the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for
Borrowers under Investment Project Financing", dated July 1, 2016.
17. 
"Project 
Implementation Manual" 
and "PIM" each means 
the project
implementation manual to be prepared by the PIE for the Project and referred to in
Section I.A.2 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
18. 
"Project Implementing Entity" and "PIE" each means the CDR.
19. 
"Project Implementing Entity's Legislation" means the Legislative Decree No. 5
dated January 31, 1977, and the Law No. 295 dated April 3, 2001 of the Borrower.
20. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" and "RAP" each means a resettlement action plan to
be prepared by the Borrower in accordance with the procedures and requirements
under the RPF, setting out, for a particular activity, actions and measures for
compensation and resettlement of Affected Persons, including the magnitude of
displacement, proposed compensation and resettlement arrangements, budget and
cost estimates, and sources of funding, together with adequate institutional,
monitoring and reporting arrangements capable of ensuring proper implementation
of, and regular feedback on compliance with, the RAP, as such plan may be revised
from time to time with prior written approval of the Bank; and "RAPs" means,
collectively, all such RAP.
21. 
"RPF" means the Resettlement Policy Framework to be prepared and adopted by
the Borrower, pursuant to the provisions of Section I.C of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement, which sets forth the principles and procedures, governing land
or other asset acquisition from, resettlement 
and rehabilitation of and
compensation to, Project affected persons, as well as reporting and monitoring
arrangements to ensure compliance with said principles, and for the preparation of
resettlement action plans whenever required in the carrying out of Project
activities, as said Framework may be revised from time to time with the prior
approval of the Bank.
22. 
"Safeguards Instruments" means, collectively, the ESIA, ESMF, RPF, ESMP(s)
and RAP(s), and "Safeguards Instrument" means any one of them.
23. 
"Sub-project" means a specific development project to be carried out by the PIE
under Part 1 (a) of the Project, and "Sub-projects" means, collectively, two or more
such specific development projects.
24. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the
proceeds of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity.
-20-
25. 
"Training" means the training of persons involved in Project-supported activities,
based on the Annual Work Plan and Budget approved by the Bank, such term
including scholarships, seminars, workshops, and study tours, and costs associated
with such activity including local and international travel and subsistence costs for
training participants, per diems, costs associated with securing the services of
trainers, rental of training facilities, preparation and reproduction of training
materials, and other costs directly related 
to training preparation and
implementation.
Section H. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
Wherever used throughout the General Conditions, the term "Loan Payment" is
modified to read "Payment of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan".
Furthermore, wherever used in Sections 3.02 to 3.08; Section 3.10; Section 4.01;
Section 4.02 to 4.05 (including the Title); and Section 9.05, the term "the Loan" is
modified to read "the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan"; the term
"Unwithdrawn Loan Balance" is modified to read "Unwithdrawn Balance of the
Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan"; and the term "Withdrawn Loan Balance"
is modified to read "Withdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the
Loan".
2. 
In Section 2.07, Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee
and Interest, the term "the Loan" in paragraph (a) and the term "the Loan" after
"other charges on" in paragraph (c) of, is deleted and replaced with "the Non-
Concessional Portion of the Loan".
3. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
4. 
Section 3.01. (Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Non-Concessional
Portion of the Loan at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end
Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The Commitment
Charge shall accrue from a date sixty (60) days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the
-21-
Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be
payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date."
5. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above.
6. 
Wherever used in the following definitions of the terms "Conversion"; "Currency
Conversion"; "Default Interest Period"; "Default Interest Rate"; "Default Variable
Rate"; "Fixed Rate"; "Fixed Reference Rate"; "Fixed Spread"; "Interest Rate
Cap"; "Interest Rate Conversion"; "Principal Payment Date"; "Reference Rate
Reset Date"; "Screen Rate"; "Variable Rate"; "Variable Spread"; "Variable Spread
Fixing Charge"; the term "the Loan" is modified to read "the Non-Concessional
Portion of the Loan"; the term "Unwithdrawn Loan Balance" is modified to read
"the Unwithdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan"; and the
term "Withdrawn Loan Balance" is modified to read "Withdrawn Balance of the
Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan".
7. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and the remaining paragraphs are
renumbered accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
8. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
9. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any
prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of
a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable
upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any
Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
10. 
A new paragraph 73 with the following definition of "Non-Concessional Portion
of the Loan" is added to the Appendix, and the remaining paragraphs are
renumbered accordingly:
"73. 
"Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan" means portion of the Loan
-22-
provided to the Borrower on non-concessional terms in the Loan Agreement."
11. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
12. 
In the renumbered paragraph 94 (originally paragraph 92) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Unwithdrawn Loan Balance" is modified to read as follows:
"94. 
"Unwithdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan"
means the amount of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan remaining
unwithdrawn from the Loan Account from time to time."
13. 
In the renumbered paragraph 98 (originally paragraph 96) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Withdrawn Loan Balance" is modified to read as follows:
"98. 
"Withdrawn Loan Balance" means the amounts of the: (i) Non-
Concessional Portion of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account and
outstanding from time to time; plus (ii) Concessional Portion of the Loan
withdrawn from the Loan Account from time to time."
14. 
A new paragraph 99 with the following definition of "Withdrawn Balance of the
Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan" is added to the Appendix, and the
remaining paragraphs are renumbered accordingly:
"99. 
"Withdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan" means
the amounts of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan withdrawn from the
Loan Account and outstanding from time to time."
