OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
SCF LOAN NUMBER TF019211
Strategic Climate Fund
Loan Agreement
(Environmental Regularization of Rural Lands in the Cerrado of Brazil Project-
Regulariza!do Ambiental de Imdveis Rurais no Cerrado - CAR/FIP)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Entity of the Forest Investment Program under the
Strategic Climate Fund
Dated 
,201-
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
SCF LOAN NUMBER TF019211
STRATEGIC CLIMATE FUND LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT 
dated 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
, 
201;7 entered 
into
between:
The 
FEDERATIVE 
REPUBLIC 
OF 
BRAZIL 
("Borrower") 
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("World
Bank"), acting not in its individual capacity but solely in its capacity as Implementing
Entity of the Forest Investment Program ("FIP") under the Strategic Climate Fund ("SCF").
The Borrower and the World Bank hereby agree as follows:
Article I
Standard Conditions; Definitions
1.01. 
The Standard Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
Article II
Loan
2.01. 
The World Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in this Agreement, the amount of thirty-two million four
hundred and eighty thousand United States Dollars ($32,480,000) ("Loan"), to
assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to this Agreement
("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower's representative for purposes
of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is its
Minister of the Environment or any person or persons delegated by it.
2.03. 
The Loan is funded out of the resources made available to the World Bank as an
implementing entity of the SCF. In accordance with Section 3.02 of the Standard
Conditions, the World Bank's payment obligations in connection with this
Agreement are limited to the amount of funds made available to it from the SCF trust
fund, and the Borrower's right to withdraw the Loan proceeds is subject to the
availability of such funds.
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Borrower on the Withdrawn Loan Balance
shall be equal to one-fourth of one percent (1/4 of 1%) per annum.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the repayment
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is USD.
Article III
The Project
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through MMA, with the assistance of
the Participating SEAs in accordance with the provisions of Article II of the
Standard Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Article IV
Effectiveness; Termination
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that
the UGP has been established in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
4.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the Loan has
been duly registered with the Borrower's Central Bank.
4.03. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the Standard Conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
-2-
Article V
Borrower's Representative; Addresses
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative referred to in Section 10.02 of the Standard
Conditions is its Ministry of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard Conditions
is:
Minist6rio da Fazenda
Procuradoria-Geral da Fazenda Nacional
Esplanada dos Ministdrios, Bloco "P" - 8' andar
Brasilia, DF, 70048-900
Brazil
Facsimile: (55-61) 3412-1740
With copies to:
SEAIN - Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais do
Minist6rio do Planejamento, Orgamento e Gest5o
Esplanada dos Minist6rios - Bloco K - 50 andar
Brasilia, DF, 70040-906
Brazil
Facsimile: (55-61) 2020-5006
And to:
Ministerio do Meio Ambiente - MMA
Secretaria Executiva
Esplanada dos Minist6rios - Bloco Bl. B - 60 andar
Brasilia, DF, 70068-900
Brazil
Facsimile: (55-61) 2028-1770/2015
5.03. 
The World Bank's Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard Conditions
is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Facsimile: (1-202) 477-6391
-3-
AGREED at ifSW 
\ 
k 
VJE 
tG , 
, as of the
day and year first above written. 
0,
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By
Authorized Re resentative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an implementing entity of the
Forest Investment Program under the Strategic Climate
Fund
By
/ 
;iAuthorized Representative
Witnessed by
-4-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to enhance the capacity of the Borrower's MMA
and nine SEAs to receive, analyze and approve rural environmental cadaster entries and
link them to SICAR; and support, in selected municipalities, landholding registration in the
CAR.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Strengthening SEAs' Capacity to Implement the CAR
Provision of support to MMA and Participating SEAs for: (a) the development,
implementation of CAR and its integration with SICAR; (b) the provision of support for
the structuring of teams within Participating SEAs and the set up and training of
Participating SEAs and their teams to guide, receive and analyze cadasters; and (c) the
provision of support to SEAs management teams involved in the execution of the Project.
Part 2: Registration of Landholdings in Selected Municipalities
Provision of support for the gathering and compilation of up-to-date environmental
cadastral data containing information about smallholders, their landholdings and their
enrollment in the CAR, through: (a) the carrying out of surveys, mapping and geo-
referencing of land use and rural holdings in each of the Selected Municipalities; (b) the
carrying out of a communications campaign and mobilization 
in the Selected
Municipalities; (c) the establishment of service desks in Selected Municipalities aimed at
guiding landholders to carry out the registration process and to assist landholders with the
documentation required to file the registration with environmental agencies; (d) the
carrying out of surveys, mapping, geo-referencing and enrollment of small landholdings in
the CAR in each of the Selected Municipalities; and (e) the carrying out, when necessary,
of an environmental assessment and a plan for the recovery of degraded areas of the small
landholdings located in Selected Municipalities.
Part 3: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
Provision of support for the technical and administrative management of the
Project, including monitoring and evaluation activities.
-5-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower, through MMA, shall:
(a) 
prior to carrying out any Project activity which requires the assistance of
a Participating SEA, enter into an agreement (the Technical Cooperation
Agreement) with the relevant Participating SEA, under terms and
conditions approved by the World Bank, for purposes of assisting MMA
in the implementation of the Project, and thereafter maintain the pertinent
Technical Cooperation Agreement throughout the implementation of the
Project; and
(b) 
exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each Technical
Cooperation Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the World Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
Except as the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any of the
Technical Cooperation Agreements or any of their provisions.
2. 
For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower, through MMA, shall,
at all times during Project implementation:
(a) 
(i) create and maintain a unit (the UGP), responsible for the management,
coordination, supervision, monitoring and evaluation of the Project; and
(ii) maintain the special bidding committee (the CEL), responsible for the
procurement of goods and services required under the Project; and
(b) 
maintain said unit and committee with a structure, responsibilities, and key
staff with terms of reference, qualifications and functions acceptable to the
World Bank to perform all Project related functions.
3. 
(a) 
For purposes of carrying out part of its obligations under the Project (in
close coordination with the MMA and CEL), the Borrower, through
MMA, may enter into an agreement with an international cooperation
entity with qualifications, procurement and financial 
management
experience acceptable to the Bank, under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank (the International Cooperation Agreement) which shall
include, inter alia, the obligation of the above referred cooperation entity:
(i) to carry out the procurement of certain goods, Non-consultant services
and the selection of Individual Consultants under the Project in accordance
-6-
with the provisions set forth in Section III of this Schedule and in the
Operational Manual; and (ii) to keep separate records and accounts in
respect of such goods, Non-consulting services and Individual Consultants
and to assist the Borrower in complying with its obligations under this
Agreement.
(b) 
The Borrower, through MMA, shall exercise its rights and carry out its
obligations under the International Cooperation Agreement, in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the World Bank and
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the World Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive,
terminate or fail to enforce the International Cooperation Agreement, or
any of its provisions.
4. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with a manual (the
Operational Manual), satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include the rules,
methods, guidelines, standard documents and procedures for the carrying out of
the relevant Parts of the Project, including the following: (i) the detailed
description of Project implementation activities and the detailed institutional
arrangements of the Project; (ii) the Project administrative, accounting, auditing,
reporting, financial, procurement and disbursement procedures; 
(iii) the
monitoring indicators for the Project; and (iv) the ESMF. In the event that any
provision of the Operational Manual shall conflict with this Agreement, the terms
of this Agreement shall prevail.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF)
The Borrower shall: (a) implement the Project in accordance with the ESMF
(including provisions for natural habitats and forests); (b) adopt the procedures
detailed in said ESMF for environmental screening, evaluation, implementation
and monitoring of activities under the Project, including the procedures for the
preparation of environmental management plans, if applicable; and (c) implement
and/or cause to be implemented, the pertinent environmental management plans,
if applicable, in accordance with their terms and in a manner acceptable to the
Bank.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports; Completion Report
-7-
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard
Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the World Bank. Each
Project Report shall cover the period of six months, and shall be furnished to the
World Bank not later than 45 days after the end of the period covered by such
report.
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare the Completion Report in accordance with the
provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions. The Completion Report
shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six months after the Closing
Date.
B. 
Financial Management; Financial Reports; Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that a financial management system is maintained in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that interim unaudited financial reports for the Project
are prepared and furnished to the World Bank as part of the Project Report not later
than one 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, covering the quarter, in
form and substance satisfactory to the World Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements for the Project audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of the Standard Conditions.
Each such audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal
year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall
be furnished to the World Bank not later than six months after the end of such
period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
-8-
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the World Bank of particular
contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1 .
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and Non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and Non-
consulting services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under
which such methods may be used:
(a) National Competitive Bidding (including the method known as "pregdo
eletr6nico", as provided in the Member Country's Law No. 10520, of July
17, 2002, under any e-procurement system acceptable to the Bank), subject
to the following additional procedure, namely, that the bidding documents
shall be acceptable to the Bank
(b) Shopping ( including the method known as "pregdo eletr6nico", as provided
in the Member Country's Law No. 10520, of July 17, 2002, under any e-
procurement system acceptable to the Bank)
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection,
which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan shall specify
the circumstances under which such methods may be used: (a) Selection under a
Fixed Budget; (b) Least Cost Selection; (c) Selection based on Consultants'
Qualifications; (d) Single-source Selection; (e) Selection of consultants under
Indefinite Delivery Contract or Price Agreement; and (f) Procedures set forth in
paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of Individual
Consultants.
-9-
D. 
Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
World Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review
by the World Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article III of the Standard Conditions, this Section and such
additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the World Bank and as made applicable to
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocations of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated (expressed in 
Expenditures to be
USD) 
Financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, Non-consulting 
6,146,304.00 
100%
services, consultants'
services, works,
Training and Operating
Costs under Part I of
the Project
(2) Goods, Non-consulting 
25,178,219.00 
100%
services, consultants'
services, works,
Training and Operating
Costs under Part 2 of
the Project
(3) Goods, Non-consulting 
1,155,477.00 
100%
services, consultants'
services, Training and
- 10-
Operating Costs under
Part 3 of the Project
TOTAL AMOUNT 
32,480,000.00
For the purposes of this Section:
(a) 
the term "Operating Costs" means the reasonable incremental operational
costs (which would not have been incurred absent the Project), related to
Project technical 
and administrative management monitoring and
supervision required under the Project, including inter alia, administrative
and operational support, office equipment, supplies, travel costs (including
accommodations, transportation costs and per diem), printing services,
communication costs, utilities, maintenance of office equipment and
facilities, vehicle operation and maintenance costs, and logistics services;
and
(b) 
the term "Training" means expenditures (other than those for consultants'
services) incurred in connection with the carrying out of training,
seminars, and workshops, including the reasonable travel costs (e.g.
accommodations, transportation costs and per diem) of trainees and
trainers (if applicable), catering, rental of training facilities and equipment,
logistics and printing services, as well as training materials and equipment
under the Project.
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,800,000 (three million
eight hundred thousand Dollars) equivalent may be made within one year prior to
this date, for Eligible Expenditures.
2. 
The Closing Date is February 28, 2020. The World Bank will only grant an
extension of the Closing Date after the Borrower's Ministry of Finance has
informed the World Bank that it agrees with such extension.
SCHEDULE 3
Repayment Schedule
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Loan
repayable
(expressed as a percentage)
On each June 15 and December 15:
commencing December 15, 2025 to and including 
1%
June 15, 2035
commencing December 15, 2035 to and including 
2%
June 15, 2055
-12-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"CAR" means CadastroAmbientalRural, the national scale and mandatory public
electronic register of rural landholdings, aimed at integrating information in a
database for controlling, monitoring, environmental planning and deforestation
combat (Law No. 12.651, art. 29 - Brazilian Forest Code).
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
4. 
"CEL" means Comissdo Especial de Licitag$es, MMA's special bidding
committee, created pursuant MMA's Ordinance No. 264 of July 28, 2014, or any
successor thereto acceptable to the World Bank.
5. 
"Cerrado Biome" means the savannah and dry forest biome in the central
highlands of the Borrower's territory which covers an area equivalent to 200
million hectares over the following states: Bahia, Distrito Federal, Goi6s, Mato
Grosso, Mato Grosso do Sul, Maranhdo, Minas Gerais, Piaui, Parand, Sdo Paulo
and Tocantins.
6. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised in July 2014).
7. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF" means Marco
de Gestdo Ambiental e Social do Projeto CAR-FIP no Cerrado - MGAS, the
Borrower's framework dated October 1, 2014 acceptable to the World Bank, as
published 
and 
available 
to 
the 
public 
on 
the 
website
http://www.mma.gov.br/images/publicacoes/CAR/MGAS CARFIPMMAdez
.pdf, which contains the environmental protection measures in respect of the Project,
including: (i) protection of natural habitats and forests; (ii) guidelines for the
identification of existing environmental conditions and potential direct and indirect
environmental impacts resulting from the carrying out of the Project; (iii)
guidelines for the carrying out of environmental assessments and the preparation
of environmental management plans, when applicable; (iv) the recommendation of
mitigation measures for each negative impact identified; and (v) measures for
enhancing each identified positive impact, as such framework may be amended
from time to time with the prior agreement of the World Bank.
- 13 -
8. 
"FIP Design Document" is the design document for the Forest Investment
Program, approved by the Strategic Climate Fund Trust Fund Committee and
issued on July 7, 2009, and as said design may be amended from time to time in
accordance with its terms.
9. 
"Forest Investment Program" or "FIP" means the program established under the
Strategic Climate Fund in accordance with the Governance Framework adopted on
November 18, 2008, by the Strategic Climate Fund for the purposes set forth in the
FIP Design Document.
10. 
"Implementing Entity of the Forest Investment Program under the Strategic
Climate Fund" means the implementing entity of the FIP under the SCF in
accordance with the terms of the Governance Framework of the Strategic Climate
Fund.
11. 
"International Cooperation Agreement" means the agreement between the
Borrower, through MMA, and the international cooperating entity referred to in
Section I.A.3(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
12. 
"MMA" means Ministirio do Meio Ambiente, the Borrower's Ministry of
Environment.
13. 
"Non-consulting services" means surveys and other services of non-intellectual
and non-advisory nature that can be procured on the basis of performance or
measurable physical outputs.
14. 
"Operational Manual" means the manual dated August 19, 2014, and referred to
in Section I.A.4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
15. 
"Participating SEA" means the SEAs of the following selected States: Goids,
Tocantins, Mato Grosso, Mato Grosso do Sul, Minas Gerais, Maranhdo, Parand,
and Sdo Paulo, and the Federal District.
16. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised in July 2014).
17. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
August 29, 2014, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines
and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
18. 
"SEA" means State Environmental Agency (65rgdo Estadual do Meio Ambiente).
-14-
19. 
"Selected Municipalities" means municipalities located in the Borrower's Cerrado
Biome and selected considering the following criteria: (i) deforestation rate greater
than 25 km2, (2009 to 2010); (ii) areas of remnant native vegetation greater than
20 percent of the municipality or existence of protected areas; and (iii)
municipalities that are not financially supported by external funds to carry out a
landholding cadaster.
20. 
"SICAR" means Sistema Nacional de Cadastro Ambiental Rural, the Borrower's
rural environmental cadaster system.
21. 
"Standard Conditions" means the Standard Conditions for Loans Made by the
World Bank Out of the Climate Investment Funds, dated February 18, 2014.
22. 
"Technical Cooperation Agreement" means Acordo de Cooperaqdo Ticnica, any
of the agreements referred to in Section I.A. I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
23. 
"UGP" means the unit referred to in Section I.A.2(a)(i) of Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement.
- 15 -
