DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8807-MA
Loan Agreement
(Casablanca Municipal Support Program)
between
MUNICIPALITY OF CASABLANCA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8807-MA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between MUNICIPALITY OF
CASABLANCA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank")- The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and fonn
part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of one hundred seventy-two million
EURO, (EUR 172,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion ("Loan"), to assist in financing the program described in Schedule I
to this Agreement ("Program").
2.02- 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited
by the Bank into an account specified by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank.
2.03- 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread; or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE III- 
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Program. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out the Program in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the Signature
Date.
-2-
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the President of the Conseil de la Commune de
Casablanca.
5.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower's address is:
Place Mohamed V-Avenue Hassan II
Casablanca
Kingdom of Morocco; and
(b) the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile:
+212 522 422 942
5.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-3-
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
MUNICIPALITY OF CASABLANCA
By 
4
Authorized Representative
Name:_________
Tite:.14 A 
I , 
&wf)a at 
(
Date: 
wi- 
Q4 
210
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: N 
t 
- t45W.1
Title: A.Areckf ca 
OP6t
Date: 
OCL2b1 6 = 
O
-4-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Description
The objectives of the Program are to increase the investment capacity of the Borrower,
improve the business environment in the Borrower's territorial jurisdiction, and enhance access to
basic services in the Program Area.
The Program consists of the following activities:
1. 
Increasing the Borrower's municipal investment capacity
(a) 
Strengthening the Borrower's revenue management systems through, in/er alia; (i) the
carrying out of capacity building activities; (ii) the establishment and implementation of
an integrated information system; (iii) the carrying of an inventory of taxpayers and
inventory and valuation of the municipal real-state assets; and (iv) the implementation of
an Addressing System (Systkme d'Adressage).
(b) 
Increasing the mobilization of private investment through the establishment of public-
private partnerships.
2. 
Improvins the urban environment and access to basic services
(a) 
Improving the access of households located in Disadvantaged Neighborhoods to
electricity, water and sanitation services in the Program Area.
(b) 
Developing effective and transparent Borrower's grievance redress mechanisms and an e-
government platform in accordance with specifications and criteria set forth in the Program
Operational Manual.
(c) 
Improving 
Selected Public Spaces in the Borrower's territory 
by, inter alia,
upgrading/building of roads, sidewalks, pedestrian ways, installation of public lighting,
road markings and road signs, rainwater drainage systems, landscaping, green areas
management and rehabilitation, and traffic management equipment.
3. 
Improving the Borrower's business environment
Supporting the acceleration and digitization of administrative 
procedures through 
the
simplification, automation and dematerialization of the procedures for the issuance of business
licenses and the authorization related to urban planning.
-5-
SCHEDULE 2
Program Execution
Section 1. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Program Institutions
1. 
The Borrower shall be responsible for the overall implementation, monitoring and
evaluation of the Program. To this end, the Borrower shall:
(a) 
maintain, throughout the Program's implementation, a Strategic Committee, in
charge of setting the Program's priority objectives and reviewing overall Program
implementation, with decision making authority, under terms and conditions as
described in the POM;
(b) 
maintain, throughout the Program's implementation, a Steering Committee,
responsible for overall Program implementation at the operational level and for
coordination among key Program stakeholders, under terms and conditions as
described in the POM; and
(c) 
no later than thirty (30) days after the Effective Date, or any other later date as
shall be established by the Bank, enter into a memorandum of understanding with
Casa Prdstations, or any other entity as shall be proposed by the Borrower and
agreed by the Bank ("PMU Memorandum of Understanding" or "PMU MoU")
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, including Casa Pr4stations's
or any such other entity's obligation to establish and thereafter maintain,
throughout the Program's implementation, the Program Management Unit
("PMU"), responsible for the monitoring of day-to-day implementation of the
Program, including the preparation of the Program's annual progress reports, and
staffed with adequate personnel (including a social and environmental specialist)
and under terms and conditions as described in the POM.
B. 
Implementation Arrangements
1 .
To facilitate the implementation of the activities under the Program, the Borrower shall
ensure that each Participating Socidd de Ddveloppement Local ("Participating SDL") and
the Operator shall, pursuant to the terms and conditions of their respective Commitment
Letter: (i) assist the Borrower in the implementation of the Program activities which fall
within its administrative jurisdiction; and (ii) comply with the pertinent provisions of the
POM.
2. 
Prior to the carrying out of any Program activity under Part 2(a) of the Program within the
territorial jurisdiction of any of the Beneficiary Municipalities, arrangements with each
Beneficiary Municipality shall be executed for the implementation of the activities under
Part 2(a) ofthe Program;under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank and described
in the POM.
-6-
C. 
Additional Program Implementation Arrangements
Program Operational Manual
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Program in accordance with the Program Operational
Manual ("POM"). Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend
or waive any provision of the POM. In case of any conflict between the terms ofthe POM
and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
Program Action Plan
2. 
The Borrower shall: (a) carry out the actions within the Program Action Plan which fall
under its administrative jurisdiction; and (b) as applicable, cause each Participating SDL
and the Operator to carry out the actions within the Program Action Plan which fall under
their respective administrative jurisdiction, all in accordance with the Program Action Plan
and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
Environmental and Social Aspects
3. 
Without limitations to Section 5.01(b) of the General Conditions, no works under the
Program shall cause involuntary land acquisition.
4. 
Without limitations to paragraph 3 above, if any works under the Program involve
temporary taking of land or restriction of access to land which causes physical
displacement and/or adversely affects the income source or means of livelihood and/or
living standards of the affected persons, the Borrower shall, prior to any said temporary
taking of land or restriction of access, ensure full payment of compensation andlor
provision of relocation/restoration/livelihood assistance (as the case may be) to the
affected persons, all in a manner acceptable to the Bank and as described in the POM.
Section II. 
Excluded Activities
The Borrower shall ensure that the Program excludes any activities which:
A. 
in the opinion of the Bank, are likely to have significant adverse impacts that are sensitive,
diverse, or unprecedented on the environment and/or affected people; or
B. 
involve the procurement of: (1) works, estimated to cost USD 125,000,000 equivalent or
more per contract; (2) goods, estimated to cost USD 75,000,000 equivalent or more per
contract, (3) non-consulting services, estimated to cost USD 75,000,000 equivalent or more
per contract; or (4) consulting services, estimated to cost USD 30,000,000 equivalent or
more per contract.
Section III. 
Program Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
1. 
The Borrower shall fumish to the Bank each Program Report not later than sixty (60) days
after the end ofeach calendar year, covering the calendar year.
2. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall, with the support of the PMU, ensure that verification missions
are carried out at least annually, on the basis of the verification protocols
-7-
established in the Program Operational Manual, in accordance with terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank, through IGAT or independent verification
agencies the Bank has confirmed in writing to be acceptable, for the verification
of achievement of DLRs LI through DLR 6.3 which are set forth in the table in
Section IV.A.2 of this Schedule, and furnish to the Bank not later than sixty (60)
calendar days after the verification of compliance of said DLRs, a report on the
results of said verification of compliance process of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall reasonably request
(b) 
Such annual verifications will be based on a review of the documentation available
at the PMU level and during on-site verification missions.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in
accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) pay the Front-end Fee; (b) pay each Interest Rate
Cap or Interest Rate Collar premium; and (c) finance the results ("Disbursement Linked
Results" or "DLRs") achieved by the Borrower, as measured against specific indicators
("Disbursement Linked Indicators" or "DLls"); all as set forth in the table in paragraph 2
of this Part A.
2. 
The following table specifies each category of withdrawal of the proceeds of the Loan
(including the Disbursement Linked Indicators as applicable) ("Category"), the
Disbursement Linked Results for each Category (as applicable), and the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category:
Category 
Disbursement Linked Result (as 
Amount of the Loan
(including Disbursement 
applicable) 
Allocated
Linked Indicator As 
(expressed in EUR)
applicable)
(1) DLI #1: Percentage increase 
DLR#l: Percentage increase in Municipal 
DLR#1: EUR43,000,000
in 
Municipal 
Revenues 
Revenues 
Excluding 
Transfers 
from
Excluding Transfers 
from 
a 
baseline 0% to40% 
Formula: 
For
baseline of 0% in CY 2015 
each 
percentage 
point
increase occurred during a
CY, 
starting 
CY 
2016,
EURI,075,000 may be made
available for withdrawal by
the 
Borrower, 
up 
to
EUR43,000,000. 
For each
subsequent 
CY, 
amounts
disbursed from previous CY
are deducted.
(2) DLI #2: Modernization of DLR # 2.1: Installation of an integrated 
DLR#2.1: EUR 2,580,000
Borrower's 
revenue 
information system for the administration
management systems 
of taxes on non-built land, beverge
-8-
Category 
Disbursement Linked Result (as 
Amount of the Loan
(including Disbursement 
applicable) 
Allocated
Linked Indicator as 
(expressed in EUR)
applicable)
licenses and tourism, including: (i) relevant
Borrower's staff have been equipped and
trained to operate the system, and (ii) the
system's 
functionalities 
have 
been
successfully activated
DLR #2.2: Carrying out of a census of DLR #2.2: EUR 2,580,000
taxpayers and elements of taxation relating
to the revenues 
administered by the
Borrower, including upgrading tax bases
undertaken for each of the tax revenues,
when applicable (as described in the POM)
DLR 
#2.3: 
Establishment 
and DLR #2.3. EUR 3,440,000
operationalization of a single Addressing
System ( Sysie d Adressage)
DLR#2.4: Integrated information system 
DLR #2.4: EUR 1,720,000
for 
revenue 
administration 
is 
fully
operational and the revenues administered
by the Borrower (but excluding small
volume revenues and cash revenues, inter
alia, as described in the POM) are able to
be administered through the integrated
information system
DLR #2.5: Completion of an inventory and 
DLR #2.5: EUR2,580,000
valuation of the Borrower's real estate
assets, in form and substance as set forth in
the POM
(3) 
DLI 
#3 
Private 
capital 
DLR #3: Amount of private capital 
DLR #3: EUR 51,300,000
mobilized 
for 
investments 
committed pursuant to the execution of
through new or additional value 
new PPP contracts or additional amounts of Formula; For each additional
of PPP contracts from a baseline private capital mobilized pursuant to the MAD 1,000,000 committed
of 0 (measured in MAD) 
revision and execution of amended PPP through the execution of a
contracts, from a baseline of MAD 0 
new PPP contract or the
amount up to MAD 900,000,000 
revision and execution of an
existing 
PPP 
contract,
EURS7,000 may be made
available for withdrawal by
the 
Borrower, 
up 
to
EUR51,300,000, 
with 
a
minimum threshold of MAD
15,000,000 
committed
-9-
Category 
Disbursement Linked Result (as 
Amount of the Loan
(including Disbursement 
applicable) 
Allocated
Linked Indicator 
as 
(expressed in EUR)
applicable)
through the execution of a
new PPP contract or the
revision 
and execution of an
existing 
PPP 
contract.
(4) 
DL 
#4 
Households 
in 
1,0 ho 
ulds 
basic eRvcEs,4E0,447
Disadvantaged 
Neighborhoods
provided with improved accessh 
a
to basic services (at least one of 
the three
the following: water supply, 
s 
ie:wtrspl,sntto,o 
egbrod 
ihacs
sanitation, or electricity), from a 
eetiiy 
rmabsln 
f0 
pt 
oa 
es 
n 
ftedm
baseline of 0. 
10,000 households 
basic services
(5) DLI #5 Number of kilometers 
DR 
#: 
Cmltv, 
nme 
fDR#:ER1,0,0
of 
comprehensive 
stret 
klmtr 
fcmrhnie 
sr
upgrading completed (works to 
ugaigcmltd(ok 
oicuea 
oml:Prec 
ioee
include at least three (3) of the 
lattre()o 
h blwn 
lmns 
prdd 
U 4,5 
a
following elementsbe 
made 
available
(ii) sidewalk or pedestrian path,by 
the Borrower,
(iii) 
road 
drainage 
systems,EUR 
0,000 
with 
a
(iv 
road markings and signs,20
(v) stmet lighting, (vi) urban
furniture, and (vii) landscape), 
u o16klmtr
fro 
at 
baselin 
ofe 
0ftehe
(6) DL #6: Simplification and 
DLR#: 
DLR#65:EUR1,000,O00
digitalization of administrative 
k 
llnericme 
heCestrba
transactions for: (i) the issuance 
pa 
is deployed in 
t 
inle
of authorizations related to urban 
wno 
f the orrow
planning 
(aut oriswans
d'uwarnismpe); and 
(ii) 
the 
DLR 
#6.2:
issuance of business licenses 
mV2kifulln 
sin 
o)te Cisatrba 
uL 
6. EUR ,00,000
(iv)trordakings arndcins,Ni pl bator his eproved 
i th asess no at
ofs alle o the O tr frollsein bsi
ftwntur. ad (iservicca e 
s: wat 16klter spl 
sntto,o
eltocty fro 
aaeln 
baeln of0,upt
DLR #5U3: D 
iz 
procedures for 
DLR#6.3: EURC,um0,000
al 
sioets 
f l icp 
rvehben fe Ctvel
(vubais)) 
urba furitre and (vi adsap) as.2
deployed in the single windows 
of all the
FlBorrower's 
Arrondissements;
-10-
Category 
Disbursement Linked Result (as 
Amount of the Loan
(including Disbursement 
applicable) 
Allocated
Linked Indicator as 
(expressed in EUR)
applicable)
(7) Front-end Fee to be paid 
Not applicable
pursuant to Section 2.03 of this 
430,000
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.05(b) of the General
Conditions
(8) Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
Not applicable 
0
Rate Collar premium to be paid
pursuant to Section 4.05(c) of the
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
172,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made;
(a) 
for purposes of Section 2.03 of the General Conditions, for DLRs achieved prior
to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals may be made up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed EUR20,000,000 for such DLRs achieved prior to this date
but on or after January 1, 2016; and
(b) 
for any DLR under Category (1), (2), (3), (4) (5) and (6), unless and until the
Borrower has furnished evidence satisfactory to the Bank that said DLR has been
achieved.
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.1(b) of this Section, the Borrower may withdraw
an amount not to exceed EUR43,000,000 as an advance; provided, however, that if the
DLRs in the opinion of the Bank, are not achieved (or only partially achieved) by the
Closing Date, the Borrower shall refund such advance (or portion of such advance as
determined by the Bank in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (3) of this Part B)
to the Bank promptly upon notice thereof by the Bank. Except as otherwise agreed with
the Borrower, the Bank shall cancel the amount so refunded. Any further withdrawals
requested as an advance under any Category shall be permitted only on such terms and
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrowcr.
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.1(b) of this Section, if any of the DLRs under
Category (1) through (6) have not been achieved, the Bank may, at any time, by notice to
the Borrower, decide, in its sole discretion, to: (a) in respect of Categories (1), (3), (4), and
(5), authorize the withdrawal of such lesser amount of the unwithdrawn proceeds of the
Loan then allocated to said Category which, in the opinion of the Bank, corresponds to the
extent of achievement of said DLR, said lesser amount to be calculated in accordance with
the formula set out in the third column "Amount Loan Allocated (expressed in EUR)" of
the table under Section IV.A.2 of this Schedule 2, or (b) reallocate all or a portion of the
proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said DLR to any other DLR, or (c) cancel all or a
portion of the proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said DLR.
4. 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2022.
-11-
SCHEDULE3
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date ("Installment Share").
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
On each December 15
Beginning December 15, 2024 
6.25%
through December 15, 2039
-12-
APPENDIX
Section 1. Definitions
1. 
"Addressing Framework" or "Syst&me dAdressage" means the Borrower's addressing
system defined pursuant to the Guarantor's Decree no 2.17.307 dated July 3, 2017.
2. 
"Anti-corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the Bank's "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and
Corruption in Program-for-Results Financing," dated February 1, 2012, and revised July
10,2015.
3. 
"Arrondisement' means a Borrower's administrative subdivision.
4. 
"Beneficiary Municipality" means any of the municipalities located in the Guarantor's
provinces of MAhammadia, Nouaceur and Mediouna, selected to participate in the Program
pursuant to the criteria set forth in the POM.
5. 
"Casa Aminagement" means a local joint ownership company established pursuant to the
Borrower's Conseil Communal Decision No. 20/2008, dated July 2008.
6. 
"Casa Patrimoine" means a local joint ownership company established pursuant to the
Borrower's Conseil Communal Decision No. 50/2014, dated April 2014.
7. 
"Casa Prislations" means a local joint ownership company established and operating in
the Borrower's territory pursuant to the Borrower's Conseil Communal Decision No.
49/2014, dated April 2014.
8. 
"Casa Tansports" means a local joint ownership company established pursuant to the
Borrower's Conseil Communal Decision No. 21/2008, dated July 2008.
9. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement
10. 
"Commitment Letter" means Lettre d'Engagement, any of the letters referred to in Section
I.B.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
I. 
"Disadvantaged Neighborhood" means a neighborhood in the Program Area which meets
the criteria set forth in the Program Operational Manual for households located therein to
receive improved access to basic services under Part 2 (a) of the Program.
12- 
"Disbursement Linked Indicator" or "DLI" means in respect of a given Category, the
indicator related to said Category as set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2
to this Agreement-
13. 
"Disbursement Linked Result" or "DLR" means in respect of a given Category, the result
under said Category as set forth in the table in Section IV.A-2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, on the basis of the achievement of which, the amount of the Loan allocated to
said result may be withdrawn in accordance with the provisions of said Section IV.
-13-
14, 
"Guarantor" means the Kingdom of Morocco.
15. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Program-for-Results 
Financing", dated
July 14, 2017.
16. 
"IGAT" means Inspection Gindrale de [Administration Territoriale, the General
Inspectorate of Territorial Administration within the Guarantor's Ministry of Interior, or
any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
17. 
"MAD" means Moroccan Dirham, the lawful currency of the Kingdom of Morocco.
Is. 
"Municipal Revenues Excluding Transfers" means, with respect to DLI #1, Borrower's
operating 
revenues, which include the taxes, fees, and other operating revenues
administered directly by the Borrower as well as the taxes administered by the Guarantor's
Central Government on behalf of the Borrower (tare professionnelle, taxe stir les services
communaux, and taxe d'habitation), but excluding transfers and resources from the Value-
Added Tax Special Purpose Account, as further described in the POM.
19. 
"Operator" means Socidti Lyonnaise des Eaux de Casablanca (LYDEC), a private
company registered in the Borrower territory, in charge of the implementation of the
activities under Part 2(a) of the Program.
20. 
"Participating Socidtj de Diveloppenent Local" or "Participating SDL" means the
following: Casa Pristations, CasaAminagement, Casa Transports and Casa Patrimoine,
and any other socield de dvelopment local as shall be proposed by the Borrower and
agreed by the Bank to participate in the Program implementation.
21. 
"PMU Memorandum of Understanding" or "PMU MoU" means the memorandum of
understanding referred to in Section I.A. 1(c) of schedule 2 to this Agreement.
22. 
"PPP" means public-private partnership.
23. 
"Program Action Plan" means the Borrower's plan dated November 8, 2017 and referred
to in Section LC.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as may be amended from time to time
with the prior written consent of the Bank.
24. 
"Program Area" means the territorial jurisdiction of the Borrower and the Participating
Municipalities.
25. 
"Program Management Unit" or "PMU" means the unit referred to in Section I.A(c)(i) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
26. 
"Program Operational Manual" means the manual in form and substance acceptable to
the Bank setting forth the technical, administrative, environmental, social and fiduciary
procedures applicable to the Program, including arrangements for monitoring, evaluation,
and reporting of Program implementation, and in particular the necessary protocols to
confirm DLR achievement.
-14-
27. 
"Selected Public Spaces" means those public spaces in the Borrower's territory selected
for upgrading in accordance with criteria set forth in the Program Operational Manual.
28. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the date of the Loan
Agreement" in the General Conditions.
29. 
"Steering Committee" means the committee referred to in referred to in Section L.A.l(b)
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
30. 
"Strategic Committee" means the committee referred to in Section 1.A.I(a) of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
