OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8790-ID
Loan Agreement
(Second Indonesia Fiscal Reform Development Policy Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
2 of 11
LOAN NUMBER 8790-ID
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between the REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA ("Borrower")
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the
purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this
Agreement). The Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (i) the actions
which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of
Schedule I to this Agreement; and (ii) the Borrower's maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic
policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form part
of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have the
meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of three hundred million United States
Dollars (USD 300,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion ("Loan").
2.02. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn
Loan Balance.
2.04. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Fixed Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
2.07. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.05 of the General Conditions, the Borrower
shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this Article II
as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.
3 of 11
2.08. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit (as said
terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of this Section), the Borrower
shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of one half of one percent (0.5%) per
annum of the Allocated Excess Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i)
of this Section) for each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if
any) shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during which the
Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit, the product of: (A) the
total amount of said excess; and (B) the ratio of all (or, if the Bank so
determines, a portion) of the Loan to the aggregate amount of all (or the
equivalent portions) of the loans made by the Bank to the Borrower and to other
borrowers guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an exposure
surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined from time to time
by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the Bank's financial
exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded, would subject the Loan to the
Exposure Surcharge, as determined from time to time by the Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total financial exposure
to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this end,
and further to Section 5.05 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework and the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program;
(b) 
without limitation upon paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall promptly
inform the Bank of any situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the
objectives of the Program or any action taken under the Program including any action
specified in Section I of Schedule I to this Agreement.
4 of 11
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: a situation has arisen which
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be carried out.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: the event specified in Section
4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 60 days after notice of the event
has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following: the Bank is satisfied with
the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program and with the adequacy of
the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date sixty (60) days after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower's address is:
Directorate General of Budget Financing and Risk Management
Ministry of Finance
Gedung Frans Seda
Jl. DR. Wahidin Raya No. 1
Jakarta 10710; and
(b) the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile: 
62-21-381-2859
5 of 11
6.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile: 
1-202-477-6391
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
QGIFf2T 
PAKPAHAN
1IRTO 
GNfIMAL OF BUOOET
Title: 
FANO N(, 
ANO 9-ISK MANA6fMENT
Date: 
NOVeMbER 
a7, 
0017
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authori 
retentative
Name:
Title:
Date: 
*
6 of 11
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
Pillar A: 
Improving Quality of Spending
1. 
The Borrower has maintained the increased share of the central government budget allocated
to infrastructure, social assistance and health sectors, compared to pre-fuel subsidy reform
years (2012-2014), as evidenced through the 2017 Budget Law and the Presidential Regulation
97/2016.
2. 
The Borrower has strengthened the preparation of the Medium Term Expenditure Framework
("MTEF") by: (a) using a top-down approach to better align line ministries' medium term
spending with the resource envelope; (b) (i) simplifying types of expenditures in the MTEF to
operating and non-operating expenditures at program and/or activity level; and (ii) imposing
restrictions on revisions; and (c) introducing the requirement that line ministries explain the
deviations between a new budget and the earlier planned budget based on policy changes, all
as evidenced through the Minister of Finance Regulation 163/2016.
3. 
The Borrower has continued to enable the increased usage of early procurement for capital
expenditure packages listed in the 2017 Budget Law, as evidenced through the Secretary
General of the Ministry of Public Works and Housing's Circular Letter No. PL-0206/Sj/606
dated August 18, 2016.
4. 
The Borrower has strengthened subnational fiscal management by: (a) improving the
composition of subnational spending by requiring sub-national governments to allocate a
minimum of 25 percent from DAU and revenue sharing for infrastructure; (b) disbursing DAK
based on reports on achievements; and (c) improving DID allocation criteria, as evidenced
through the 2017 Budget Law and the Minister of Finance Regulation 112/2017.
5. 
The Borrower has issued consolidated DAK technical guidelines - that were previously issued
by separate line ministries - to accelerate DAK implementation, as evidenced through the
Presidential Regulation 123/2016.
Pillar B: 
Strengthening Revenue Administration
6. 
The DGT has strengthened VAT administration by: (a) requiring all corporate taxpayers to use
the electronic invoice and electronic VAT returns; and (b) implementing a system that makes
electronic VAT returns data available within 72 hours after filing, for auditing and analysis of
compliance risk, as evidenced through DGT Announcement No. Peng-o4/PJ.09/2016 dated
April 27, 2016.
7. 
The DGT has required the electronic filing of: (a) corporate income tax returns by companies
that are VAT taxpayers; and (b) withholding tax returns by select withholding agents, as
evidenced through the DGT Regulations 3/2015 and 4/2017.
7 of 11
8. 
The Borrower has enabled the DGT increased access to financial data for audit purposes by
requiring financial institutions to submit a report on financial data to the DGT; beginning with
each individual account(s) with a balance of IDR I billion or more, as evidenced through the
Law 9/2017 and the Minister of Finance Regulation 73/2017.
Pillar C: 
Enhancing Tax Policy
9. 
The Ministry of Finance has prevented tax base erosion and profit shifting by: (a) introducing
a limitation of benefits clause to deter companies 
from using treaties for non-
economic/business reasons; (b) signing the CBC MCAA, which obliges the Borrower to share
tax information aimed at combating harmful tax practices by carrying out country-by-country
reporting exchange; and (c) adopting a standardized set of documentation requirements for
international taxation, all as evidenced through the Minister of Finance Regulation 213/2016,
the CBC MCAA list of signatories and the DGT Regulation 10/2017.
10. 
The Ministry of Finance has: (a) enabled the implementation of APA and MAP dispute
resolution mechanisms; and (b) created a sub-directorate dedicated to enable the Borrower to
manage international tax disputes, as evidenced through the Minister of Finance Regulation
234/2015 and the DGT Decree 36/2017.
11. 
The Borrower has allowed the DGT to access information on - and tax - passive income held
by Indonesian companies and citizens abroad, as evidenced through the Minister of Finance
Regulation 107/2017.
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice
to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from
which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan Allocated
(expressed in USD)
Single Withdrawal Tranche 
300,000,000
TOTAL AMOUNT 
300,000,000
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is satisfied:
(a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with the adequacy of the
Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
D. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is June 30, 2018.
8 of 11
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the total
principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date ("Installment Share").
Level Principal Repayments
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
On each March 15 and September 15
Beginning March 15, 2023 
3.33%
through March 15, 2037
On September 15, 2037 
3.43%
9 of 11
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"2017 Budget Law" means the Borrower's law no. 18 of 2016 that sets out the Borrower's
national budget for the calendar year of 2017.
2. 
"APA" or "Advanced Pricing Agreement" means an agreement to be entered into between the
DGT and a taxpayer or a partner country tax authority on a transfer pricing method to be
adopted for the purpose of preventing double taxation or tax avoidance due to multiple fiscal
jurisdictions which a taxpayer is subject to.
3. 
"CBC MCAA" or the "Multilateral Competent Authority Agreement on the Exchange of
Country-by-Country Reports" means a multilateral framework agreement to facilitate an
automatic exchange of information through common reporting standards, developed by the
OECD, dated October 29, 2014.
4. 
"DAK" or "Dana Alokasi Khusus" means funds allocated in the Borrower budget for specific
regions for the purposes of financing specific activities that fall under regional autonomy.
5. 
"DAU" or "Dana Alokasi Unnum" means funds allocated in the Borrower budget for regional
governments for the purposes of achieving equality among regions in financing their
development needs in the context of decentralization.
6. 
"DID" or "Dana Insentif Daerah" means funds allocated in the Borrower budget for specific
regions based on specific criteria for the purposes of providing incentives for an improvement
and/or achievement of specific performance in the areas of regional financial management,
general government services, basic public services and social welfare.
7. 
"DGT" means the Directorate General of Taxes (Direktorat Jenderal Pajak) of the Ministry of
Finance, or any successor thereto.
8. 
"DGT Announcement" or "Pengunuman Direktur Jenderal Pajak" means a formal public
communication issued by the Director General of Taxes on tax matters.
9. 
"DGT Decree" or "Keputusan Direktur Jenderal Pajak" means a decree issued by the Director
General of Taxes.
10. 
"DGT Regulation" or "Peraturan Direktur Jenderal Pajak" means a regulation issued by the
Director General of Taxes.
11. 
"Director General of Taxes" means the director general in the Ministry of Finance, responsible
for taxes, or any successor thereto.
12. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Development Policy Financing", dated July 14, 2017.
13. 
"IDR" or "Indonesian Rupiah" means the Borrower's lawful currency.
10 of 11
14. 
"Law" means Undang-Undang, a piece of legislation enacted by the legislative arm of the
Borrower.
15. 
"MAP" or "Mutual Agreement Procedures" means administrative procedures to resolve
possible issues arising in the implementation of an agreement between the Borrower and a
partner country, which is designed to avoid double taxation.
16. 
"Medium Term Expenditure Framework" or "MTEF" means a policy-based budgeting for the
period of more than one budget year.
17. 
"Minister of Finance Regulation" or "Peraturan Menteri Keuangan" means a regulation issued
by the Minister of Finance.
18. 
"Ministry of Finance" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for finance, or any successor
thereto.
19. 
"Ministry of Law and Human Rights" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for legal and
human rights affairs, or any successor thereto.
20. 
"Ministry of Public Works and Housing" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for
carrying out public works and housing, or any successor thereto.
21. 
"OECD" means the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development, established
and operating pursuant to the OECD convention dated September 31, 1961, or any successor
thereto.
22. 
"President" means the Borrower's head of state and head of executive.
23. 
"Presidential Regulation" or "Peraturan Presiden" means an executive legislation issued by
the President.
24. 
"Program" means: the program of objectives, policies, and actions set forth or referred to in
the letter dated September 18, 2017 from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in
support of the Program during its execution and comprising actions taken, including those set
forth in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and actions to be taken consistent with the
program's objectives.
25. 
"Secretary General of the Ministry of Public Works and Housing" means the secretary general
of the Ministry of Public Works and Housing, or any successor thereto.
26. 
"Secretary General of the Ministry of Public Works and Housing's Circular Letter" or "Surat
Edaran Sekretaris Jenderal Kementerian Pekerjaan Umuin dan Perumahan" means a circular
issued by the Secretary General of the Ministry of Public Works and Housing.
27. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank signed
this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the date of the Loan
Agreement" in the General Conditions.
II of 11
28. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
29. 
"VAT" means value added tax.
