OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8738-YF
Loan Agreement
(Disaster Risk Management Development Policy Loan
with a Catastrophe-Deferred Drawdown Option)
between
REPUBLIC OF SERBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
,2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8738-YF
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
W k , 
1 
, 2017, entered into between
REPUBLIC 
OF 
SERBIA 
("Borrower") 
and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing
financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The
Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions that
the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower's maintenance of an adequate
macroeconomic policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank, therefore, hereby agree
as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of sixty-six million one hundred
thousand Euros (EUR 66,100,000), as such amount may be converted from time
to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of
Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one half of one
percent (0.50%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
If, at the Borrower's request and on such terms and conditions as the Bank may
agree, the Closing Date is extended, the fee payable by the Borrower for each
extension of the Closing Date shall be at the rate of one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the amount of the Loan available for withdrawal upon such extension.
If the Borrower elects to capitalize the fee from the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself such amounts
-2-
required to pay such fee. If the Borrower elects to pay the fee from its own
resources, the Borrower shall pay such fee not later than sixty days after the date
of the notice given by the Bank to the Borrower confirming the extension of the
Closing Date.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, however, that the interest payable shall in no event be less than zero
percent (0%) per annum; and provided furthermore that, upon a Conversion of all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the
Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance
remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty
days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as
provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are June 1 and December 1 in each year.
2.07. 
(a) 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this Section, the principal
amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(b) 
The Borrower may at the time of requesting a Withdrawal also request
repayment provisions different from those set out in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement for such Withdrawal, provided that: (i) the average maturity of
such Withdrawal does not exceed twenty (20) years from the Withdrawal
Date and the final maturity of such Withdrawal does not exceed thirty-five
(35) years from the Withdrawal Date (or such other average maturity
and/or final maturity as may be generally applicable to loans made by the
Bank to the Borrower at the time of such agreement); and (ii) such
repayment provisions have been agreed between the Borrower and the
Bank prior to the Withdrawal Date of such Withdrawal.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
-3-
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
2.09. 
At any time prior to the Closing Date, the Borrower may, by notice to the Bank,
refund any amount of the Withdrawn Balance for the purpose of re-crediting such
amount to the Loan Account for further withdrawals. Upon such refund, the
repayment schedule shall be adjusted on a pro rata basis, on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To
this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either
party, exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank for its review and comment, a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request; and
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program
or any action taken under the Program including any action specified in
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, a situation
has arisen that shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of
it, will be carried out.
-4-
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of thirty (30) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to
the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that
the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out
the Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty (180) days after the
date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
For the purposes of Section 10.02 of the General Conditions, the Borrower's
Representative, who, inter alia, may agree to modification of the provisions of this
Agreement on behalf of the Borrower through an exchange of letters (unless
otherwise determined by the Borrower and the Bank), is its Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
20 Kneza Milosa St.
11000 Belgrade
Republic of Serbia
Facsimile:
(381-11) 3618-961
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at Belgrade, Republic of Serbia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF SERBIA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: Ol 
1-YAJ
Title: //7 
? 
OF 
P/(7ver
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
r 
e E
Title: 
Ca-kA.'-F 
119 MG 
/%GV
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I. 
Actions under the Proaram
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
Pillar A: Strengthening the Borrower's legal and institutional framework for
post-disaster reconstruction and disaster and climate risk management
1. 
The Borrower:
(a) 
established the Public Investment Management Office ("PIMO") (as
evidenced by Government Decree 05 No. 110-12429/2015); and
(b) 
operationalized PIMO with the mandate to support reconstruction, carry
out the related procurement of goods and services, coordinate the work of
other central, provincial and local governmental institutions and agencies
involved in reconstruction, and coordinate post-disaster damage and needs
assessments (as evidenced by the Borrower's adoption of the Law on
Reconstruction Following Natural and Other Hazards).
Pillar B: Strengthening the Borrower's technical capacity for planning and
implementing disaster and climate risk management activities
2. 
The Borrower adopted the National Disaster Risk Management Action Plan, which
identifies the activities to be implemented under the National Disaster Risk
Management Program (as evidenced by Government Conclusion 05 No. 217-
1906/2017-1).
Pillar C: 
Reducing the fiscal impacts, and strengthening the Borrower's
financial capacity to respond to the adverse impacts, of natural hazards,
particularly those exacerbated by climate change
3. 
The Borrower adopted a disaster risk finance program (as evidenced by
Government Conclusion 05 No. 401-1893/2017), to guide the implementation of
financial protection measures for the purpose of: (a) maintaining fiscal health at
the national level necessary to support long-term rehabilitation and reconstruction
needs; (b) developing sustainable disaster risk financing mechanisms for local self-
governments; and (c) reducing the impact of disasters on the poorest and most
vulnerable population.
-7-
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
may specify by notice to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the
Front-end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the
Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan
Allocated
(expressed in EURO)
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 
65,769,500
(2) Front-end Fee 
330,500
(3) Fee payable pursuant to Section
2.04 of this Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
66,100,000
C. 
Payment of Fee Pursuant to Section 2.04 of Agreement. If the Closing Date is
extended pursuant to Section 2.04 of this Agreement and the Borrower elects to
finance from its own resources the fee set forth in said Section, no withdrawal shall
be made from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of
such fee.
D. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
1. 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the
Bank is satisfied, based on evidence satisfactory to it, that an emergency
situation exists in the Borrower's territory as a result of a natural disaster
that has been declared by the Borrower, through its central government, in
accordance with the Borrower's relevant legislation, including specifically
the Law on Reconstruction Following Natural and Other Hazards.
2. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if, at any time prior to the receipt by the
Bank of a request for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the Bank
determines that a review of the Borrower's progress in carrying out the
Program is warranted, the Bank shall give notice to the Borrower to that
effect. Upon the giving of such notice, no withdrawals shall be made of
the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance unless and until the Bank has notified the
Borrower of its satisfaction, after an exchange of views as described in
paragraphs (a) and (b) of said Section 3.01, with the progress achieved by
the Borrower in carrying out the Program.
-8-
E. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into
an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and
2. 
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan
into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower's
budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
F. 
Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any
time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded
Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an
amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to
the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
G. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is October 31, 2020.
-9-
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each June 1 and December 1
Beginning June 1, 2027 
5%
through December 1, 2036
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
-10-
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
-11-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
or grant;
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986)
(the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions
to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item
112 
Alcoholic beverages
121 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco
refuse
122 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or
not containing tobacco substitutes)
525 
Radioactive and associated materials
667 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof;
fuel elements (cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear reactors
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and
watch cases) and goldsmiths' or
silversmiths' wares (including set
gems)
971 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
agreements to which the Borrower is a party;
-12-
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United
Nations; and
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.
2. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
3. 
"Government Conclusion 05 No. 217-1906/2017-1" means the decision of the
same number, issued by the Borrower's executive branch of government, dated
March 3, 2017.
4. 
"Government Conclusion 05 No. 401-1893/2017" means the decision of the same
number, issued by the Borrower's executive branch of government, dated March
3, 2017.
5. 
"Government Decree 05 No. 110-12429/2015" means the decree of the same
number, issued by the Borrower's executive branch of government, dated
November 19, 2015, and published in the Official Gazette of Republic of Serbia,
No. 95/15, dated November 20, 2015.
6. 
"Law on Reconstruction Following Natural and Other Hazards" means the
Borrower's law of the same name, published in the Official Gazette of Republic of
Serbia, No. 112/15, dated December 30, 2015.
7. 
"National Disaster Risk Management Action Plan" means the Borrower's action
plan of the same name, adopted pursuant to Government Conclusion 05 No. 217-
1906/2017-1, dated March 3, 2017.
8. 
"National Disaster Risk Management Program" means the Borrower's program of
the same name, established pursuant to Government Conclusion 05 No. 217-
16233/2014-1, dated December 19, 2014.
9. 
"Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
referred to in the letter dated March 10, 2017, from the Borrower to the Bank
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, indicating
specifically that the objective of the Program is to strengthen Serbia's institutional
-13-
and legal framework to effectively manage the physical and fiscal impact of natural
hazards.
10. 
"Public Investment Management Office" or "PIMO" means the Borrower's
agency of the same name, established pursuant to Government Decree 05 No. 110-
12429/2015, or any legal successor or successors thereto.
11. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category titled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1 .
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.
3. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
accordingly.
4. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan
amount at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement
(the "Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective
dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan
Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-
annually in arrears on each Payment Date."
5. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally) and 5.09 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the subsequent
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.
-14-
6. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
7. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above)
is modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records."
8. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above)
is modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."
9. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above.
10. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the remaining paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified
in the Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
11. 
Renumbered paragraph 37 (originally paragraph 36) of the Appendix ("Eligible
Expenditure") is modified to read as follows:
"37. 
"Eligible Expenditure" means any use to which the Loan is put in
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
pursuant to the Loan Agreement."
12. 
Renumbered paragraph 44 (originally paragraph 43) of the Appendix ("Financial
Statements") is deleted in its entirety.
-15-
13. 
In paragraph 46 of the Appendix, the term "Fixed Spread" is modified to read as
follows:
"46. 
"Fixed Spread" means, for each Withdrawal, the Bank's fixed
spread for the Loan Currency of the Withdrawal in effect at 12:01 a.m.
Washington, D.C. time, on the Withdrawal Date, and expressed as a
percentage per annum; provided, that: (a) for purposes of determining the
Default Interest Rate, pursuant to Section 3.02 (e), that is applicable to an
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance on which interest is payable at a
Fixed Rate, the "Fixed Spread" means the Bank's fixed spread in effect at
12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, one calendar day prior to the date of
the Loan Agreement, for the Currency of denomination of such amount;
(b) for purposes of a Conversion of the Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on the Fixed Spread, and for purposes of
fixing the Variable Spread pursuant to Section 4.02, "Fixed Spread" means
the Bank's fixed spread for the Loan Currency in effect at 12:01 a.m.
Washington, D.C. time on the Conversion Date; and (c) upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, the
Fixed Spread shall be adjusted on the Execution Date in the manner
specified in the Conversion Guidelines"."
14. 
In paragraph 48 of the Appendix, the definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by
replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
15. 
In paragraph 67 of the Appendix, the definition of the term "Loan Payment" is
modified to read as follows:
"67. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties
to the Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions,
including (but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance,
interest, the Front-end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default
Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a
Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread
Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount
payable by the Borrower."
16. 
In paragraph 72 of the Appendix, the definition of "Payment Date" is modified by
deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and Commitment Charge are" after
the word "interest".
17. 
The defined term "Project" in paragraph 75 of the Appendix is modified to read
"Program" and its definition is modified to read as follows (and all references to
"Project" throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to
"Program"):
-16-
"75. 
"Program" means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement
in support of which the Loan is made."
18. 
In paragraph 94 of the Appendix, the term "Variable Spread" is modified to read
as follows:
"94. 
"Variable Spread" means, for each Withdrawal and each Interest
Period: (1) the Bank's standard lending spread for Loans in effect at 12:01
a.m. Washington, D.C. time, on the Withdrawal Date; (2) minus (or plus)
the weighted average margin, for the Interest Period, below (or above) the
Reference Rate, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by it to fund loans
that carry interest at a rate based on the Variable Spread; as reasonably
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. In the
case of a Loan denominated in more than one Currency, "Variable Spread"
applies separately to each of such Currencies."
19. 
The following definitions of the terms "Withdrawal" and "Withdrawal Date" are
inserted as new paragraphs 98 and 99, respectively:
"98. 
"Withdrawal" means each amount of the Loan withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 2.01.
99. 
"Withdrawal Date" means, for each Withdrawal, the date on
which the Bank pays the Withdrawal."
