OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
SCF-SREP LOAN NUMBER TF0A4969
Strategic Climate Fund
Scaling-Up Renewable Energy
Program
Loan Agreement
(Rwanda Renewable Energy Fund Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(acting as an implementing entity of the Scaling-up Renewable Energy Program
under the Strategic Climate Fund)
Dated 
X,2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
SCF-SREP LOAN NUMBER TF0A4969
STRATEGIC CLIMATE FUND
SCALING-UP RENEWABLE ENERGY PROGRAM
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT 
dated 
) 
{ 
, 2017, entered 
into
between the REPUBLIC OF RWANDA ("Eorrower") and the INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION ("World Bank"), acting not in its individual capacity
but solely in its capacity as an implementing entity of the Scaling-Up Renewable Energy
Program ("SREP") under the Strategic Climate Fund ("SCF").
The Borrower and the World Bank hereby agree as follows:
Article I
Standard Conditions; Definitions
1.01. 
The Standard Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
Article II
Loan
2.01. 
The World Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in this Agreement, the amount of twenty-seven million five
hundred thousand United States Dollars ($27,500,000) ("Loan") to assist in
financing the project described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Loan is funded out of the resources made available to the World Bank as an
implementing entity of the SCF. In accordance with Section 3.02 of the Standard
Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement), the World Bank's
payment obligations in connection with this Agreement are limited to the amount of
funds made available to it from the SCF trust fund, and the Borrower's right to
withdraw the Loan proceeds is subject to the availability of such funds.
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Borrower on the Withdrawn Loan Balance
shall be equal to one-tenth of one percent (1/10 of 1%) per annum.
-2-
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the repayment
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is USD.
Article III
The Project
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall carry out the Project, or cause it to be carried out by the
Development Bank of Rwanda ("BRD") ("Project Implementing Entity"), all in
accordance with: (a) the provisions of Article II of the Standard Conditions; (b) the
agreement of even date hereof between the World Bank and the Project
Implementing Entity, as such agreement may be amended from time to time
("Project Agreement"); and (c) the Operations Manual, as the same may be
amended from time to time with the approval of the World Bank.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Article IV
Additional Remedies
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
The Project Implementing Entity's Legislation has been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any of
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b) 
A representation made by the Project Implementing Entity in or pursuant to
the Project Agreement, or any representation or statement furnished by the
Project Implementing Entity and intended to be relied upon by the World
Bank in making the Loan was incorrect in any material respect.
(c) 
The Borrower has taken or permitted to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with the performance by the Project Implementing
Entity of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d) 
The World Bank has suspended in whole or in part the right of the Project
Implementing Entity to make withdrawals under any agreement with the
World Bank because of a failure by the Project Implementing Entity to
-3-
perform any of its obligations under such agreement or any other agreement
with the World Bank.
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following:
(a) 
The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement
occurs and is continuing for a period of thirty (30) days after notice of the
event has been given by the World Bank to the Borrower.
(b) 
Any of the events specified in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of Section 4.01
of this Agreement occurs, and is continuing for a period of sixty (60) days
after notice of the event has been given by the World Bank to the
Borrower.
Article V
Effectiveness; Termination
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The Subsidiary Financing Agreement referred to in Section I.B of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower
and the Project Implementing Entity.
(b) 
the Strategic Climate Fund - Scaling-Up Renewable Energy Program
Grant Agreement dated the same date as this Agreement, between the
Recipient and the World Bank, providing a grant in support of the Project
("SCF-SREP Grant Agreement"), has been executed and delivered and all
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Recipient to
make withdrawals under it (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement)
have been fulfilled.
(c) 
The Project Implementing Entity has appointed the Project Manager in
accordance with the provisions of Section I.A.2 of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement.
(d) 
The Borrower has established the Project Steering Committee, in
accordance with the provisions of Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
(e) 
The Project Implementing Entity has adopted the Operations Manual in
accordance with the provisions of Section I.B.1 of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement.
(f) 
A legal opinion has been furnished satisfactory to the World Bank, by
counsel acceptable to the World Bank, on the application of the newly
approved PPP Law in areas relevant to the Project.
-4-
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following: namely, that the Subsidiary
Financing Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the
Project Implementing Entity and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the
Project Implementing Entity in accordance with its terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
Article VI
Borrower's Representative; Addresses
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative referred to in Section 10.02 of the Standard
Conditions is its minister at the time responsible for finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard Conditions
is:
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
P.O. Box 158
Kigali,
Republic of Rwanda
6.03. 
The World Bank's Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard Conditions
is:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INDEVAS 
248423 (MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI)
-5-
AGREED at 
, 
, as of the
day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA 
c 
HD ECO
By: 
o
Authorized Repre 
e
Name:-
Title: 
YN,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(acting as an implementing entity of the Scaling-up
Renewable Energy Program under the Strategic Climate
Fund)
By:
Aut 
jize epr
Name:
Title:
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to increase electricity access in Rwanda through off-
grid technologies and facilitate private-sector participation in renewable off-grid
electrification.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. 
Lines of Credit and Direct Financin2 for Off-Grid Electrification
Set-up and operationalization of a Renewable Energy Fund (REF), as a local-
currency line of credit and direct financing facility to help address access to finance and
affordability constraints that stall acceleration of off-grid electrification in the territory of
the Borrower.
The REF consists of the following four windows:
(a) 
Window 1 -
On-lending through savings and credit cooperatives
(SACCOs) to households and micro-enterprises. Wholesale line of credit
to the Project Implementing Entity for further on-lending to qualifying
SACCOs, under SACCO Subsidiary Credit Lines, for the purpose of
extending Final Direct Loans to eligible Final Beneficiaries (eligible
households and micro enterprises), for the acquisition of qualifying solar
systems.
(b) 
Window 2 - On-lending through banks (commercial and microfinance) to
households and small and medium enterprises (SMEs). Wholesale line of
credit to the Project Implementing Entity, for on-lending to eligible
commercial and microfinance banks (Participating Banks), under
Participating Bank Credit Lines, for the purpose of extending Final Direct
Loans to eligible Final Beneficiaries (households and SMEs) for the
acquisition, and possibly, in the case of SMEs, distribution, of qualifying
solar systems.
(c) 
Window 3 - Direct Loan financing of mini-grid developers. Provision of
Direct Loans to Final Beneficiaries (qualifying mini-grid developers) to
finance construction of renewable-energy based mini-grid systems,
including but not limited to provision of bridge loan financing out of the
REF until grant funding from existing results-based financing programs
becomes available, as well as long-term financing beyond commissioning.
(d) 
Window 4 - Direct Loan financing of locally-registered off-grid solar
companies supporting Tier 1 or higher solar systems. Provision of Direct
Loans to Final Beneficiaries (qualifying locally registered off-grid solar
-7-
companies) offering at least Tier 1 solar-home systems and ongoing
maintenance services to their clients through delayed payment options.
The activation of Window 4 will be postponed pending a decision of the
Project Steering Committee based on results of initial assessments of the
performance of Windows 1, 2 and 3, as described in the OM.
Part 2. 
Technical Assistance, Capacity Building and Project Implementation
Support
1 .
Provision of Technical Assistance and capacity building to the Project
Implementing Entity and participating Project entities (SACCOs, Participating
Banks, and private companies engaged in off-grid electrification) including, inter
alia: (a) capacity building and awareness workshops for SACCOs, Participating
Banks, and private companies engaged in off-grid electrification to facilitate
partnerships between SACCOs, Participating Banks, and the private sector;
(b) Technical Assistance and capacity building for participating SACCOs and
Participating Banks to ensure their successful partnerships with the private sector;
(c) capacity building of SACCOs and Participating Banks to manage the
Subsidiary Lending Credit Lines (including management, operational, and
monitoring and evaluation capacities, as well as citizen/consumer orientation to
build demand for these new products); (d) capacity building of the Energy Division
of the Project Implementing Entity to manage Direct Loan financing;
(e) Technical Assistance to the Project Implementing Entity to develop a pipeline
of mini-grid projects; (f) Technical Assistance and capacity building for the Project
Implementing Entity and participating Project entities on quality assurance and
enforcement of technical standards for off-grid solar systems, etc.; and
(g) public awareness campaigns to educate consumers on the benefits and
opportunities of off-grid electrification.
2. 
Provision of Technical Assistance activities covering gender aspects, including:
(a) monitoring Window 1 and Window 2 for the appearance of gender gaps in
access to financial services for male and female applicants and enterprises for
purchase and retailing of off-grid technologies to enhance development outcomes
and economic opportunities; (b) identification of data sources and information to
further understand the issues and barriers to financial services for off-grid
technologies by gender, income level (with a focus on low-income households),
rural 
or urban location, household headship, and other social dimensions;
(c) implementation of approaches and methods that off-grid market enablers (e.g.,
the Project Implementing Entity, SACCOs, Participating Banks) could adopt and
integrate in order to close gender gaps related to access to financial services for the
purchase of energy technologies in household or enterprise activities.
3. 
Provision of Project implementation support to the Project Implementing Entity
including, inter alia: (a) establishment of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
and provision of operational support to the PIU in the areas of project management,
-8-
supervision, and monitoring; (b) outreach to off-grid market enablers and Final
Beneficiaries; (c) knowledge-sharing events between participating Project entities;
(d) sector-wide knowledge-sharing and Project results dissemination workshops;
(e) preparation of required studies related to the Project, including impact
assessment and annual citizen/consumer feedback analysis through focus group
discussions to better understand the market; (f) preparation of consolidated annual
Project audits; and (g) financing of incremental Operating Costs.
-9-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
Project Steering Committee
1. 
The Borrower shall establish, not later than October 1, 2017, and thereafter
maintain throughout Project implementation, with terms of reference satisfactory
to the World Bank and with adequate resources to carry out its responsibilities
under the Project, a Project steering committee (the "Project Steering
Committee"), composed of, inter alia, representatives of MININFRA/REG,
MINECOFIN and the Development Bank of Rwanda, with the World Bank as an
observer, all for the duration of the Project.
2. 
Without limitation on the foregoing, the functions of the Project Steering
Committee shall be to: (a) provide overall coordination, policy and strategic
guidance over the Project; and (b) approve operational procedures to be
incorporated in the Operations Manual.
B. 
Subsidiary Financing Agreement
1 .
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make available to
the Project Implementing Entity:
(a) 
as a loan: (i) the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
Category 1 of the table set forth in Section IV.A.2 of this Schedule;
together with: (ii) the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to
Category 1 of the table set forth in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to the
Grant Agreement; and
(b) 
as a grant, the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to
Category 2 of the table set forth in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to the
Grant Agreement, for Eligible Expenditures under Part 2 of the Project, up
to the amount of $3,000,000; all under a subsidiary financing agreement
between the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity (the
"Subsidiary Financing Agreement"), under terms and conditions approved
by the World Bank, which shall include the following: (i) the principal
amount of the financing made available under the Subsidiary Financing
Agreement, denominated in Rwandan francs; (ii) the financing terms of
the subsidiary financing to be made available under the Subsidiary
Financing Agreement, which shall reflect the interest at a rate determined
pursuant to the blend of financing sources from which the subsidiary
-10-
financing is derived (the Loan and the Grant), plus a spread to account for
currency exchange risk of no more than 150 basis points; (iii) the right of
the Borrower to suspend or terminate the right of the right of the Project
Implementing Entity to use said proceeds of the said financing, and to
obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount of the subsidiary financing
then withdrawn, upon the failure of the Project Implementing Entity to
perform any of its obligations under the Subsidiary Financing Agreement.
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Subsidiary Financing Agreement includes the
obligation of the Project Implementing Entity to:
(a) 
implement the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with 
appropriate 
administrative, 
technical, 
financial, 
economic,
environmental and social standards and practices, including the provisions
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and in accordance with the provisions
of this Agreement, ensuring, inter alia, with respect to the Subsidiary
Credit Lines provided for under Part 1 of the Project, the application of
terms and conditions satisfactory to the World Bank, and provided for in
the Operations Manual, including inter alia, the terms and conditions set
forth in Sections I.C, I.D, and I.E of this Schedule 2;
(b) 
with respect to records management: (i) maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and disclose their use in said parts; (ii) furnish such
records and information as may be requested by the Borrower or the World
Bank; and (iii) retain all records evidencing: (A) amounts disbursed under
Subsidiary Credit Lines and Direct Loans for qualifying Sub-projects
under Part I of the Project; and (B) expenditures under Part 2 of the
Project; each for the period of time specified in the Standard Conditions;
(c) 
with respect to monitoring and evaluation: (i) maintain policies and
procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate, on an ongoing
basis, and in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Borrower and
the World Bank, the progress of the Project and the achievement of its
objective; (ii) prepare periodic reports, in form and substance satisfactory
to the Borrower and the World Bank, integrating the results of such
monitoring 
and evaluation 
activities 
and setting 
out measures
recommended to ensure the continued efficient and effective execution of
the said parts and to achieve its objective, each such report to cover a
calendar quarter; (iii) furmish each such report to the Borrower and the
World Bank within forty-five (45) days after the end of such period; and
(iv) prepare, and furnish to the Borrower a final report, of such scope and
in such detail as the Borrower and the World Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution of the Project, and furnish the same to the
- 11 -
Borrower and the World Bank not later than six (6) months after the end
of the Project; and
(d) 
with respect to financial management: (i) maintain a financial management
system and prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently
applied accounting standards acceptable to the Borrower and the World
Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect its operations and financial
condition, including the operations, resources and expenditures related to
the Project; (ii) avail the records pertaining to said parts to external and
internal auditors; (iii) prepare as part of the Project Report, interim
unaudited financial reports covering each quarter, and furnish them to the
Borrower and the World Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the
end of the period covered by such reports, and provide such other
information concerning such unaudited financial statements as the
Borrower or the World Bank may from time to time reasonably request;
and (iv) have its financial statements audited by independent auditors and
applying standards both acceptable to the World Bank at least once in each
fiscal year.
3. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Financing Agreement
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the World Bank and
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the World Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Financing Agreement or the Operations Manual, or any of the provisions of each.
C. 
Eligibility Criteria of Participating Banks and SACCOs; Participating Banks
and SACCOs On-lending Terms and Conditions
For the purposes of the Subsidiary Credit Lines provided for under Part 1 of the
Project, the Borrower undertakes to ensure adherence by the Project Implementing
Entity of the following eligibility criteria for Participating Banks and SACCOs, as
well as application by such Participating Banks and SACCOs of the following On-
lending Terms and Conditions:
1. 
Solicitation of Expressions of Interest and Eligibility of Participating Banks and
SACCOs
(a) 
The Project Implementing Entity shall solicit expressions of interest from
financial institutions operating in the Borrower's territory to participate in
the credit facilities established under Part 1 of the Project, either as
Participating Banks (the "Participating Banks") or as participating savings
and credit cooperatives ("SACCOs"), as appropriate, in accordance with
criteria and approval procedures set forth in the OM for each.
- 12 -
(b) 
No proposed Participating Bank or SACCO shall be eligible for,
respectively, a Participating Bank Subsidiary Credit Line or a SACCO
Subsidiary Credit Line unless the Project Implementing Entity shall have
determined on the basis of an appraisal carried out in accordance with
guidelines acceptable to the World Bank and elaborated in the OM, that
the proposed Participating Bank or SACCO concerned: (i) is a financial
institution of the appropriate type duly established under and operating in
accordance with the Borrower's laws; (ii) has the legal, organizational,
management, and technical capacity and financial resources necessary to
appraise, approve, monitor and evaluate Sub-projects and to make and
monitor Final Direct Loans under Part 1 of the Project; and (iii) is credit-
worthy and operating in accordance with sound prudential and other
fiduciary standards and practices.
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall make each Participating Bank Subsidiary
Credit Line available to a Participating Bank under a Participating Bank Subsidiary
Lending Agreement with said Participating Bank, and each SACCO Subsidiary
Credit Line to a SACCO under a SACCO Subsidiary Lending Agreement with
said SACCO, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the World Bank, including
interest at a rate reflecting, as the base rate, the terms under the Subsidiary
Financing Agreement, together with an appropriate on-lending margin which shall
be no higher than 350 basis points, and in addition, the terms set forth in paragraph
3 of this Section I.C, all as further elaborated in the Operations Manual.
3. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests
and those of the World Bank, including the right to:
(a) 
require the Participating Bank and the SACCO to undertake a time-bound
institutional development program acceptable to the World Bank, designed
to enhance its institutional capacity and in particular, its capacity to manage
Subsidiary Credit Lines;
(b) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Participating Bank or the SACCO to
use the proceeds, respectively, of the Participating Bank Subsidiary Credit
Line or the SACCO Subsidiary Credit Line, or obtain a refund of all or any
part of the amount of the same then withdrawn, upon the Participating
Bank's or the SACCO's failure to perform any of its obligations,
respectively, under the Participating Bank Subsidiary Lending Agreement
or the SACCO Subsidiary Lending Agreement;
(c) 
require the Participating Bank and the SACCO to make Final Direct Loans
and monitor and evaluate the projects financed under said Final Direct
Loans, in accordance with the provisions of Section I.D of this Schedule 2,
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
economic, financial, managerial, environmental and socials standards and
- 13 -
practices satisfactory to the World Bank, including in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to borrowers of
loan proceeds other than the Borrower, and the Safeguards Instruments; and
to provide, promptly as needed, the resources required for the purposes;
(d) 
require the Participating Bank and the SACCO to maintain policies and
procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate in accordance with
indicators acceptable to the World Bank, the progress of the Sub-projects
financed, and other activities undertaken, under their Participating Bank
Subsidiary Lending Agreements and SACCO Subsidiary Lending
Agreements in a manner which contributes to the achievement of the overall
objective of the Project;
(e) 
require the Participating Bank and the SACCO to: (i) maintain a financial
management system and prepare financial statements in accordance with
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the World Bank,
both in a manner adequate to reflect its operations and resources and
expenditures related to the Project; (ii) at the World Bank's or the
Borrower's request, have such financial statements audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the World Bank, in accordance with consistently
applied auditing standards acceptable to the World Bank, and promptly
furnish the statements as so audited to the Borrower and the World Bank;
(f) 
require the Participating Bank and SACCO to enable the Borrower or the
World Bank to inspect any Sub-project or other activity financed,
respectively, under the Participating Bank Subsidiary Lending Agreement
and the SACCO Participating Bank Subsidiary Lending Agreement, its
operation and any relevant records and documents;
(g) 
require the Participating Bank and the SACCO to comply with prudential
standards set by the National Bank of Rwanda and such additional
standards as may be set forth or referred to in the OM;
(h) 
require the Participating Bank and the SACCO to permit the World Bank
to make all financial statements audited pursuant to sub-paragraph (e) of
this Section I.C.3 available to the public in accordance with policies as
defined in the OM; and
(i) 
require the Participating Bank and the SACCO to prepare and furnish to the
Borrower and the World Bank all such information as the Borrower or the
World Bank shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing.
- 14 -
D. 
Final Direct Loans under Part 1 of the Project, Final Direct Loan Agreement
Terms and Conditions
For the purposes of the Final Direct Loans provided for under Part I of the Project,
the Borrower undertakes to ensure that the Project Implementing Entity shall require
adherence to the following terms and conditions:
1.1 
Eligibility
The PIE shall cause each Participating Bank and SACCO to ensure that Final
Direct Loans are made exclusively for Sub-projects to Final Beneficiaries selected
in accordance with eligibility criteria and approval procedures, acceptable to the
World Bank, and further elaborated in the OM, including, without limitation, the
following:
(a) 
No proposed Sub-project shall be eligible for financing under a Final
Direct Loan to a Final Beneficiary unless the Participating Bank or the
SACCO, as the case may be, shall have determined on the basis of an
appraisal carried out in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the
World Bank and elaborated in the OM, that:
(i) 
the proposed Sub-project concerns the purchase of system(s) that:
(A) provide Tier 1 or above level of energy access and correspond
to the relevant requirements as specified in the OM, or (in the case
of mini-grids) is otherwise technically feasible and economically
and financially viable; and (B) if Safeguards Instruments for the
Sub-project is (or are) required, such Safeguards Instruments have
been prepared and approved by the World Bank in accordance
with the provisions of Section I.G of this Schedule, and all
measures required to be taken in accordance with said Section
prior to commencement of the activities covered by the
Safeguards Instruments, have been taken; and
(ii) 
the proposed Final Beneficiary is: (A) a natural person; or (B) a
legal entity established and operating under the laws of the
Borrower, with the organization, management, technical capacity
and financial resources necessary to carry out the proposed Sub-
project and has prepared a satisfactory financing plan and budget,
and a satisfactory implementation plan for the proposed Sub-
project.
- 15 -
1.2 
Final Direct Loan Agreements
The PIE shall ensure that each Final Direct Loan is made under a Final Direct Loan
Agreement with the respective Final Beneficiary on terms and conditions approved
by the World Bank, which shall include the following:
(a) 
The Participating Bank or the SACCO, as the case may be, shall obtain
rights adequate to protect its interests and those of the World Bank and the
PIE, including the right to:
(i) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Final Beneficiary to use the
proceeds of the Final Direct Loan, or obtain a refund of all or any
part of the amount of the Final Direct Loan then withdrawn, upon
the Final Beneficiary's failure to perform any of its obligations
under the Final Direct Loan Agreement; and
(ii) 
require each Final Beneficiary to: (A) carry out its Sub-project
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound
technical, economic, financial, managerial, environmental and
social standards and practices satisfactory to the World Bank,
including in accordance with the provisions of: (1) the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of loan proceeds
other than the Borrower; and (2) the Safeguards Instruments, if
any, required for the Sub-project; (B) provide, promptly as
needed, the resources required for the purpose; and (C) enable the
Borrower, the PIE, the World Bank, and the Participating Bank or
SACCO, as the case may be, to inspect the Sub-project, its
operation and any relevant records and documents.
E. 
Direct Loan Financing under Part 1 of the Project, Direct Loan Agreement
Terms and Conditions
For the purposes of the Direct Loans provided for under Part 1 of the Project, the
Borrower undertakes to ensure that the Project Implementing Entity shall adhere to
the following terms and conditions:
1.1 
Eligibility
The PIE shall ensure that Direct Loans under activated windows for Direct Loan
financing are made exclusively for projects to Final Beneficiaries selected in
accordance with eligibility criteria and approval procedures, acceptable to the
World Bank, and further elaborated in the OM, including, without limitation, the
following:
-16-
(a) 
No proposed Sub-project shall be eligible for financing a Final Beneficiary
under a Direct Loan under any activated window for Direct Loan
Financing, unless the PIE shall have determined on the basis of an
appraisal carried out in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the
World Bank and elaborated in the OM, that:
(i) 
the proposed project: (A) is technically feasible and economically
and financially viable; and (B) if Safeguards Instruments for the
project is (or are) required, such Safeguards Instruments have
been prepared and approved by the World Bank in accordance
with the provisions of Section I.G of this Schedule 2 and all
measures required to be taken in accordance with said Section
prior to commencement of the activities covered by the
Safeguards Instruments, have been taken; and
(ii) 
the proposed Final Beneficiary: (A) is a legal entity established
and operating under the laws of the Borrower, with the
organization, management, technical capacity and financial
resources necessary to carry out the proposed project; and (B) has
prepared a satisfactory financing plan and budget, and a
satisfactory implementation plan for the proposed project.
1.2 
Direct Financing Terms and Conditions
The PIE shall ensure that each Direct Loan is made under a Direct Loan Agreement
with the respective Final Beneficiary on terms and conditions approved by the
World Bank, which shall include the following:
(a) 
The PIE shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and those of the
World Bank and the PIE, including the right to:
(i) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Final Beneficiary to use the
proceeds of the Direct Loan, or obtain a refund of all or any part
of the amount of the Direct Loan then withdrawn, upon the Final
Beneficiary's failure to perform any of its obligations under the
Direct Loan Agreement; and
(ii) 
require each Final Beneficiary to: (A) carry out its project with
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound
technical, economic, financial, managerial, environmental and
social standards and practices satisfactory to the World Bank,
including in accordance with the provisions of: (1) the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of loan proceeds
other than the borrower; and (2) the Safeguards Instruments, if
any, required for the project; (B) provide, promptly as needed, the
-17-
resources required for the purpose; (C) maintain policies and
procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate in
accordance with indicators acceptable to the World Bank, the
progress of the project and the achievement of its objectives;
(D) (1) maintain a financial management system and prepare
financial statements, both in a manner adequate to reflect the
operations, resources and expenditures related to the project; and
(2) at the request of the World Bank or the Borrower or the PIE,
as the case may be, have such financial statements audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the World Bank, and promptly
furnish the statements as so audited to the Borrower, the World
Bank and the PIE, as the case may be; (E) enable the Borrower,
the PIE, the World Bank, as the case may be, to inspect the project,
its operation and any relevant records and documents; and
(F) prepare and furnish to the Borrower, the PIE, the World Bank,
as the case may be, all such information as the Borrower, the PIE,
World Bank, shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing.
F. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
G. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project, or cause it to be carried out by the Project
Implementing Entity, in accordance with the provisions of the Environmental and
Social Management Framework ("ESMF") and the Resettlement Policy
Framework ("RPF").
2. 
If any Supplemental Social and Environmental Safeguards Instrument is required
under any of the Safeguards Instruments, the Borrower shall:
(a) 
prepare, or cause to be prepared; (A) such Supplemental Social and
Environmental Safeguards Instrument in accordance with the applicable
Safeguards Instrument; (B) furnish, or cause to be furnished, such
Supplemental Social and Environmental Safeguards Instrument to the
World Bank for review and approval as specified in the OM; and
(C) thereafter, adopt such Supplemental Social and Environmental
Safeguards Instrument prior to implementation of the activities; and
(b) 
thereafter take such measures as shall be necessary or appropriate to ensure
full compliance with the requirements of such Supplemental Social and
Environmental Safeguards Instrument.
- 18 -
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that all technical assistance under the Project,
application of whose results would have environmental or social implications,
shall only be undertaken pursuant to terms of reference reviewed and found
satisfactory by the World Bank, such terms of reference to ensure that the technical
assistance takes into account, and calls for application of the World Bank's
environmental and social safeguards policies and the Borrower's own laws relating
to the environment and social aspects.
4. 
If any activity under the Project would involve Affected Persons, the Borrower
shall: (a) ensure that no land acquisition or displacement (including restriction of
access to legally designated parks and protected areas) shall occur before
resettlement measures under a Supplemental Social and Environmental Safeguards
Instrument prepared in accordance with the RPF, including, in the case of
displacement, full payment to Affected Persons of compensation and of other
assistance required for relocation, have been implemented; and (b) ensure that any
financing required for the fulfillment of any measures under sub-paragraph (a)
above, including any costs associated with land acquisition required for the Project,
is covered under adequate sources.
5. 
Without limitation upon its other reporting obligations under this Agreement, the
Borrower shall for each of the Safeguards Instruments including the related
Supplemental Social and Environmental Safeguards Instrument, regularly collect,
compile and furnish to the World Bank reports in form and substance satisfactory
to the World Bank, on the status of compliance with such Safeguards Instrument
including the related Supplemental Social and Environmental Safeguards
Instrument, as part of the Project Reports, giving details of:
(a) 
measures taken in furtherance of the Safeguards Instruments including the
related Supplemental Social and Environmental Safeguards Instruments;
(b) 
conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the smooth
implementation of the Safeguards Instruments including the related
Supplemental Social and Environmental Safeguards Instruments; and
(c) 
remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such
conditions.
Section H. 
Project Monitoring, Reportin2 and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports; Completion Report
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard
Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the World Bank. Each
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be
- 19 -
furnished to the World Bank not later than one month after the end of the period
covered by such report.
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare the Completion Report in accordance with the
provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions. The Completion Report
shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six months after the Closing
Date.
B. 
Financial Management; Financial Reports; Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that a financial management system is maintained in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
ensure that interim unaudited financial reports for the Project are prepared and
furnished to the World Bank not later than one month after the end of each calendar
quarter, covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the World Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have, or cause the Project Implementing Entity to have, the
Financial Statements for the Project audited in accordance with the provisions of
Section 2.07(b) of the Standard Conditions. Each such audit of the Financial
Statements shall cover the period of one calendar year. The audited Financial
Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than
six months after the end of such period.
Section M. 
Procurement
All goods, works, non-consulting services and consulting services required for Part
2 of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured
in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in the Procurement
Regulations and the provisions of the Procurement Plan.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article III of the Standard Conditions, this Section and such
additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the "Disbursement Guidelines for Investment Project Financing" dated
February 2017, as revised from time to time by the World Bank and as made
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocations of the
- 20 -
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
Financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Subsidiary Credit Lines 
27,500,000 
60%
and Direct Loans under
Part 1 of the Project
(2) Goods, consulting 
0 
-
services, non-
consulting services,
Operating Costs and
Training under Part 2
of the Project
TOTAL AMOUNT 
27,500,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2023.
-21-
SCHEDULE 3
Repayment Schedule
Principal Amount of the Loan
repayable
Date Payment Due 
(expressed as a percentage)
On each April 1 and October 1:
commencing October 1, 2027, to and including 
1%
April 1, 2037
commencing October 1, 2037 to and including 
2%
April 1, 2057
- 22 -
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as
of July 1, 2016.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule
2 to this Agreement, or a category set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of
Schedule 2 to the Grant Agreement, as the case may be.
3. 
"Direct Loans" means loans made by the Project Implementing Entity directly to
Final Beneficiaries through Window 3 or Window 4 under Part 1 of the Project.
4. 
"Direct Loan Agreement" means an agreement between the Project Implementing
Entity and a Final Beneficiary for a Sub-project under Windows 3 or 4 of the REF.
5. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the plan
prepared and disclosed by the Borrower/Project Implementing Entity and the
World Bank, dated April 13, 2017, setting out the modalities to be followed in
assessing the potential adverse environmental and social impacts of Project
activities (including impacts on natural habitat, forests, and physical cultural
resources, as well as pest management measures) and the measures to be taken to
offset, reduce or mitigate such adverse impacts; as well as for the preparation of
environmental and social management plans, as such framework may be amended
by the Borrower from time to time, with the prior written agreement of the World
Bank.
6. 
"Final Beneficiaries" means qualifying households, micro enterprises, solar
system importers, wholesalers, retailers, installers, solar electricity service
providers, and mini-grid developers meeting the respective eligibility criteria and
conditions specified in the Operations Manual under the respective on-lending
windows for Final Direct Loans, or under the activated windows for Direct Loans,
as the case may be, under Part 1 of the Project.
7. 
"Final Direct Loans" means loans made by SACCOs or Participating Banks to
Final Beneficiaries under either of Windows 1 or 2 through the respective
Subsidiary Credit Lines provided under Part 1 of the Project.
8. 
"Final Direct Loan Agreement" means an agreement between a SACCO and a
Final Beneficiary for a Sub-project under Window 1, or an agreement between a
Participating Bank and a Final Beneficiary for a Sub-project under Window 2 of
the REF.
-23-
9. 
"Grant Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith, between the
Recipient and the World Bank, acting as implementing entity of the Scaling-Up
Renewable Energy Program under the Strategic Climate Fund, providing a grant
in the amount of $21,440,000 to assist in financing the Project.
10. 
"MINECOFIN" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planning, or any successor thereto.
11. 
"MININFRA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Infrastructure, or any successor
thereto.
12. 
"Operations Manual" or "OM" means the operations manual to be adopted by the
Project Implementing Entity pursuant to the provisions of Section I.B.1 of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.
13. 
"Operating Costs" means the reasonable incremental expenses incurred by the
Project Implementing Entity, based on annual budgets approved by the World
Bank, on account of Project implementation, management, and monitoring,
including office supplies and consumables; communication costs; operation and
maintenance of office vehicles and equipment; per diem and national and
international travel costs and accommodations for Project staff; reasonable bank
charges; and allowances and salaries of the Project's contractual staff (but
excluding the salaries of the Borrower's civil/public servants).
14. 
"Participating Banks" means commercial and microfinance banks to be selected
by the Project Implementing Entity for participation in the Participating Bank
Subsidiary Credit Line under Part 1 of the Project, on the basis of the criteria and
approval procedures set forth in the Operations Manual, and in accordance with
the provisions of Section I.D.1 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
15. 
"Participating Bank Subsidiary Credit Line" means a line of credit under Window
2 of the REF, provided by the PIE to a Participating Bank under a Participating
Bank Subsidiary Lending Agreement.
16. 
"Participating Bank Subsidiary Lending Agreements" means the agreements
entered between the Project Implementing Entity and the Participating Banks, for
the purposes of the Project, pursuant to the provisions of Section I.D.2 of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.
17. 
"PIU" means the project implementation unit established in the Project
Implementing Entity pursuant to the provisions of Section I.A.2 of the Schedule to
the Project Agreement.
18. 
"PPP Law" means the Law governing Public Private Partnership in Rwanda,
No. 14/2016 of 2nd/05/2016 Gazette 22 of 30/05/2016.
- 24 -
19. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
May 9, 2017, and provided for under Section IV of the Procurement Regulations,
as the same may be updated from time to time in agreement with the World Bank.
20. 
"Procurement Regulations" means the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for
Borrowers under Investment Project Financing", dated July 1, 2016.
21. 
"Project Agreement" means the Strategic Climate Fund Scaling-Up Renewable
Energy Program Project Agreement for the Project, of even date herewith between
the World Bank and the Project Implementing Entity.
22. 
"Project Implementing Entity" or "PIE" means the Development Bank of Rwanda.
23. 
"Project Implementing Entity's Legislation" means the Memorandum and Articles
of Association approved by Resolution No. 8 of the meeting of shareholders of the
Development Bank of Rwanda, dated March 23, 2012.
24. 
"Project Steering Committee" means the project steering committee referred to in
Section I.A. 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
25. 
"REG" means Rwanda Energy Group, a company established and operating
pursuant to its articles of association adopted by the competent authority in
accordance with the Borrower's Law No. 07/2009 of 27/04/2009 relating to
companies, as amended.
26. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" mean a document in form and
substance acceptable to the World Bank dated April 13, 2017, which framework
outlines the policies and procedures to be implemented in the event that specific
activities implemented under the Project have potentially negative impacts on the
livelihoods, assets and land of the affected population, as the said framework may
be amended and/or supplemented from time to time with the prior written consent
of the World Bank, and such term includes any schedules to such document".
27. 
"SACCOs" means savings and credit cooperatives, established and operating
under the laws of the Borrower pertaining to savings and credit cooperatives.
28. 
"SACCO Subsidiary Credit Line" means a line of credit under Window I of the
REF, provided by the PIE to a SACCO under a SACCO Subsidiary Lending
Agreement.
29. 
"SACCO Subsidiary Lending Agreements" means the agreements entered
between the Project Implementing Entity and the SACCOs, for the purposes of the
Project, pursuant to the provisions of Section I.D.2 of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.
-25-
30. 
"Safeguards Instruments" means the ESMF, the RPF and any Supplemental Social
and Environmental Safeguards Instruments.
31. 
"SREP Design Document" is the design for the Scaling-up Renewable Energy
Program, approved by the Strategic Climate Fund Trust Fund Committee and
issued on June 1, 2009, and as said design may be amended from time to time in
accordance with its terms.
32. 
"Scaling-up Renewable Energy Program" or "SREP" means the program
established under the Strategic Climate Fund in accordance with the Governance
Framework for the Strategic Climate Fund for the purposes set forth in the SREP
Design Document.
33. 
"Standard Conditions" means the Standard Conditions for Loans Made by the
World Bank Out of the Climate Investment Funds, dated February 18, 2014, with
the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
34. 
"SMEs" means small and medium enterprises.
35. 
"Sub-projects" means qualifying Tier-I (or higher) solar systems to be acquired
by qualifying Final Beneficiaries under the terms of Final Direct Loans under
Windows 1 or 2 of the REF, or qualifying renewable-energy based mini-grids to
developed under the terms of Direct Loans under Window 3 of the REF.
36. 
"Subsidiary Financing Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.B
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make part
of the proceeds of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity.
37. 
"Subsidiary Credit Lines" means wholesale lines of credit provided by the Project
Implementing Entity to SACCOs and Participating Banks under Part 1 of the
Project under either a SACCO Subsidiary Lending Agreement or a Participating
Bank Subsidiary Lending Agreement, as the case may be, all in accordance with
the provisions of Section I.D of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
38. 
"Supplemental Social and Environmental Safeguards Instrument" means any site-
specific or sub-project specific environmental and social management plan,
resettlement action plan, pest management plan, or other supplemental social and
environmental safeguards instruments as required under the terms of the ESMF or
RPF.
39. 
"Tier 1" means a solar system with 1000 lumen hours and above, so defined under
the Borrower's SE4All Multi-Tier Framework, in accordance with the Borrower's
Rural Electrification Strategy.
40. 
"Training" means the costs attributable to seminars, workshops, and study tours,
along with travel and subsistence allowances for training participants, and costs of
- 26 -
services of trainers, rental of training facilities, preparation and reproduction of
training materials, and other activities directly related to course preparation and
implementation, all within a plan and budget approved by the World Bank.
