OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8765-IN
Loan Agreement
(Assam State Public Finance Institutional Reforms (ASPIRe) Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
JUNf .27 
, 2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8765-IN
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
TUAJ A' o2 
, 2017, between INDIA ("Borrower")
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of thirty-five million Dollars
(US$35,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, however, that the interest payable shall in no event be less than zero
percent (0%) per annum; and provided furthermore that, upon a Conversion of all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the
Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance
remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty
-2-
days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as
provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 15, and September 15, in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.09. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure
Limit (as said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of
this Section), the Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of
one half of one percent (0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess
Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for
-3-
each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if any)
shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set
forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during
which the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit,
the product of: (A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the
ratio of all (or, if the Bank so determines, a portion) of the Loan
to the aggregate amount of all (or the equivalent portions) of the
loans made by the Bank to the Borrower and to other borrowers
guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an exposure
surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined from
time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the
Bank's financial exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded,
would subject the Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined
from time to time by the Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total
financial exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by
the Bank.
ARTICLE 11 -PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall ensure that the State of Assam (Assam or Project
Implementing Entity) carries out the Project in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and the Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that the
legal framework for the Assam Society for Comprehensive Financial Management
System (AS-CFMS) has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived
so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Project Implementing
Entity to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
-4-
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of 30 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the
Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE V1 -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is any of the following officials, acting severally;
the Secretary, or the Additional Secretary, or the Joint Secretary, or any Director,
Deputy Secretary, or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in
the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Secretary
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
North Block
New Delhi 110 001, India
Facsimile:
+91-11-2309 2247
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at & 
bJ 
, India, as of the day and year first above
written.
INDIA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
RAT_X- 
_M_t_k
Title: 4oAjf 
Se 
r-y
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
bfoA) 
&A4LU1r
Title: 
ATt 
&UCAT7EX 
'LjeCCfDC1 1A),&1A
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to contribute to improvement in predictability and
transparency in budget execution and efficiency in tax administration in Assam.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Component 1: Strengthening Public Finance Institutional Capacity
1.1. 
Strengthening Cash and Debt Management
Activities to be supported include: (i) establishing and institutionalizing a Cash
and Debt Management Unit under Assam's Finance Department; (ii) building
capacity for developing debt policy and strategy, conducting debt sustainability
analysis, and effective cash and debt management; (iii) developing a framework
and a system for management of commitments; and (iv) upgrading the existing IT
infrastructure and debt management system.
1.2. 
Strengthening Public Procurement 
Framework and 
Scaling up e-
Procurement:
Activities to be supported include: (i) developing Assam's procurement policy,
procurement rules and standard bidding documents; (ii) strengthening public
procurement capacity building for effective implementation of the procurement
policy which would include a training needs analysis, training strategy, and
delivery of training in public procurement; (iii) implementing a unified e-
procurement system including features for data analytics; and (iv) establishing and
strengthening a Procurement Reform unit in the Finance Department.
13. 
Strengthening Public Private Partnership Framework and Institutional
Capacity
Activities to be supported include: (i) reviewing and strengthening the PPP
framework; and (ii) strengthening the existing PPP Cell in Assam's Planning and
Development Department through the provision of technical experts to support in:
(a) implementing the revised policy and framework; (b) formulating and
structuring proposals, bidding, evaluation and selection of partners; and (c) risk
management and mitigation during implementation.
-7-
1.4. 
Institutional Strengthening of Finance Department
Activities to be supported include: (i) carrying out an institutional review of
various functions and processes within Assam's Finance Department and
appropriately supporting the re-organization plan; and (ii) providing technical
support in scaling up of Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) program.
1.5. 
Training and Capacity Building to Implementing Departments:
Activities to be supported include: (i) carrying out a training needs analysis,
developing a training strategy, content development and actual delivery of
trainings; (ii) investing in IT enabled e-learning systems; (iii) refurbishment of
training facilities; (iv) carrying out Knowledge Transfer Visits; and (v) partnering
with eminent national/state level institutions on thematic areas in public financial
management.
Component 2: Strengthening Expenditure and Revenue Information Systems
2.1. 
Technical Assistance
2.1.1. 
Design, 
development 
and implementation 
of Financial Management
Information Systems (FMIS)
Provision of technical assistance to support: (i) the carrying out of the design,
business process review, functional requirement study and preparation of detailed
project report for a financial management information system; (ii) procuring IT
Systems Integrator and related hardware for new/upgraded system; (iii) project
management during development and implementation; (iv) developing appropriate
communication and change management strategy; (v) Knowledge Transfer Visits;
and (vi) updating treasury, financial and other related rules.
2.1.2. 
Enhancing E-Collection and E-Payment Systems
Provision of technical assistance for: (i) the carrying out of business process
reviews, mapping of existing collection processes and developing the solution
architecture for a state e-collection portal; (ii) Knowledge Transfer Visits; and (iii)
capacity building and communication to internal and external stakeholders.
2.1.3. 
Designing/upgrading information systems and institutional strengthening in
Office of the Commissioner of Taxes
Provision of technical assistance to support: (i) conducting a business process
review of existing IT systems and recommending solution design covering state
taxes administered by CoT; (ii) project management to oversee the implementation
of the solution; (iii) institutional assessment study for strengthening tax
-8-
administration in CoT; (iv) augmenting the capacity building and technical support
to facilitate the institutional transition to the Goods and Services Tax (GST); and
(v) strengthening audit function and data analytics capability.
2.1.4. 
Design, development and implementation of work flow based information
system in Excise Department
Technical assistance to support: (i) conducting a business process review to
improve departmental processes; (ii) development and implementation of a
solution design; (iii) roll out of web based portal for dealer services; (iv) adopting
use of mobile technologies and workflow system for excise administration; (v)
strengthening IT infrastructure including improved MIS and Business Intelligence
systems; (vi) project management during development and implementation of the
e-governance solution; and (vii) institutional assessment and capacity building,
including Knowledge Transfer Visits of officials in excise administration for
effective implementation of the e-governance system.
2.2. 
Results-Based Financing
2.2.1. 
Enhancing controls in budget execution and reporting.
2.2.2. 
Enhancing transparency of key budget, financial and procurement information.
2.2.3. 
Increasing tax e-collection and e-payments.
2.2.4. Enhancing services provided by the Office of the Commissioner of Taxes (CoT)
using e-Governance.
2.2.5. 
Enhancing services provided by Excise Department (ED) using e-Governance.
Component 3: Project Management, Monitoring & Evaluation and Coordination
Providing financial support for project management, coordination, learning and quality
enhancement activities under the Project including those related to DLI verification, M&E,
and Operating Costs.
-9-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section 1. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds
of the Loan available to Assam, in accordance with the Borrower's standard
arrangements for development assistance to the States of India.
2. 
Notwithstanding paragraph 1 above, in the event that any provision of this
Agreement, including the instructions that the Bank shall have specified by notice
to the Borrower pursuant to Section IV.A.I of this Schedule, were to be found
inconsistent with the Borrower's standard arrangements for development
assistance to the States of India, the provisions of this Agreement and related
instructions shall govern.
3. 
The Borrower shall protect the interests of the Bank to accomplish the objectives
of the Loan.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
Section II. 
Prolect Monitorine Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1 
The Borrower shall ensure that Assam monitors and evaluate the progress of the
Project and prepares Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the
Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester,
and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end
of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, and shall ensure that Assam maintains a financial
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the
General Conditions.
- 10 -
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
ensure that Assam prepares and furnishes to the Bank not later than forty-five (45)
days after the end of each fiscal quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the
Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that Assam has its Financial Statements audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each
audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the
Borrower, commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal was
made. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to
the Bank not later than nine (9) months after the end of such period.
Section H. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works, and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works, and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts,
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works, and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional
provisions agreed from time to time in the Procurement Plan; (b) Limited
- 11 -
International Bidding; (c) Shopping; (d) Direct Contracting; (e) Force Account;
and (f) Framework Agreement in accordance with procedures which have been
found acceptable to the Bank.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan: 
(a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; (c) 
Least Cost Selection; 
(d) Selection based on Consultants'
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Procedures set
forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of
Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank. For avoidance of doubts, the Bank shall be entitled to conduct, at any time,
independent procurement reviews of all the contracts financed under the Loan.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
Disbursement Guidelines for Investment Project Financing, dated February 2017,
("Disbursement Guidelines"), as revised from time to time by the Bank and as
made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance
Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
- 12 -
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) 
financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non-
consulting services, consulting 
5,912,500 
80%
services, training, and operating
costs for Components 1, 2.1 and
3 under the Project
(2) Eligible Expenditures 
29,000,000 
80% of the amount of
Program (EEP) under Component 
EEP reported.
2.2 of the Project.
(3) Front-end Fee 
87,500 
Amount 
payable
pursuant to 
Section
2.03 of this Agreement
in 
accordance 
with
Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(4) Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
0 
Amount due pursuant
Rate Collar premium 
to Section 2.08(c) of
___________________________________________this 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
35,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed one million United
States Dollars (USD 1,000,000) under Category (1) and three million
Dollars (USS 3,000,000) under Category (2) may be made for payments
made prior to this date but on or after August 1, 2016 for Eligible
Expenditures under of the Project.
(b) 
for EEP expenditures under Category (2), unless and until the Borrower
has:
(i) 
furnished evidence satisfactory to the Bank in accordance with the
DLI Verification Protocol set forth in the Project Implementation
Plan that the Borrower has achieved the respective DLI Targets
set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement against which
withdrawal is requested; and
- 13 -
(iii) 
complied with the additional instructions referred to in Section
IV.A of this Schedule, including furnished to the Bank the
applicable interim unaudited financial reports documenting the
incurrence of EEP expenditures during the respective Fiscal Year
up to the date against which withdrawal is requested.
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Parts A and B. I (b) of this Section, the amount
of the Loan to be withdrawn upon the verified achievement of any DLI Target shall
not exceed the DLI Value of such DLI Target as set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement; provided, however, that any such withdrawal shall not exceed the
amount of the EEP incurred but not paid by the proceeds of the Loan at the date of
submission of such withdrawal application.
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.1 (b) of this Section, if the Bank shall
determine, based on the evidence furnished by the Recipient under Part B. 1 of this
Section, that any DLI Target has not been fully achieved by its DLI Target
Achievement Date and/or the DLI Value of such DLI Target has not been fully
withdrawn, the Bank may in its sole discretion, by notice to the Borrower:
(a) 
authorize the withdrawal of such lesser amount of the respective DLI
Value allocated to said DLI Target which, in the opinion of the Bank,
corresponds to the extent of achievement of said DLI Target;
(b) 
(i) withhold in whole or in part the proceeds of the Loan then allocated to
said DLI Target until such DLI Target is satisfactorily met; and/or (ii)
authorize, at a later date, the full release of the amounts so withheld, if and
when the Bank is satisfied that the respective DLI Target has been
satisfactorily met;
(c) 
reallocate in whole or in part the proceeds of the Loan then allocated to
said DLI Target to any other DLI Target(s); and/or
(d) 
cancel in whole or in part the proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said
DLI Target.
4. 
Unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, for any DLI Target that has already been
verified and for which the corresponding disbursements have been made by the
Bank, in the event that a reversal of the said DLI Target has occurred in a manner
that would, in the opinion of the Bank, adversely affect the achievement of the
objectives of the Project, the Borrower shall refund the disbursements already
made by the Bank for said DLI Target promptly upon notice thereof by the Bank.
5. 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2022.
- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each March 15, and September 15
Beginning on September 15, 2022
through September 15, 2035 
3.57%
On March 15, 2036 
3.61%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
- 15 -
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
SCHEDULE 4
Disbursement-Linked Indicators (DLIs) and Allocated Amounts
*
DISBURSEMENT-LINKED RESULTS
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE
DISBURSEMENT- 
ACHIEVED IN 
ACIIEVED IN 
ACHIEVED IN 
ACHIEVED IN 
ACHIEVED IN
LINKED INDICATORS 
FY2017/18 (YEAR 1) 
FY2018/19 (YEAR 2) 
FY2019/20 (YEAR 3) 
FY2020/21 (YEAR 4) 
FY2021/22 (YEAR 5)
1. Enhanced controls 
Contract awarded by 
Budget distribution 
100% of transactions2  
Decision support 
At least 75% of the
in budget 
AS-CFMS for FMIS 
module for HoD/BCO 
of Public Works and 
system in FMIS has 
DDOs have
execution and 
systems integrator 
to DDO's 
Forest Departments 
been implemented for 
submitted bills online
reporting' 
operationalized and 
have been made 
the Finance 
to the treasuries using
integrated with FMIS 
through the FMIS 
Department' 
the FMIS.
treasury system by the 
treasury system by the
Finance Department 
Finance Department.
These DLIs are not time-bound. The Fiscal Years in which they are expected to be achieved as per this Schedule are strictly for indicative purposes. These
DLIs can accordingly be met up and until the Closing Date, but in all cases subject to meeting the requirements set out in Section IV.B. I(b), IV.B.2 and IV.B.3
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
I The reform actions will be supported by issue of GoA's orders with cut off dates, mandating use of IT modules such as budget preparation module,
recording/payment of transactions of works department through FMIS and online submission of bills by DDO's.
I Excluding specific locations/entities facing connectivity problems or located in difficult terrain that may be specifically exempted through separate GoA's
orders.
3Decision support system means a utility which links the budget execution module (core treasury payment system) and modules of budget preparation,
Reserve Bank of India's core banking solution (e-kuber), the Borrower's PFMS and pay-bill module. It will also include operationalization of the
commitment module in at least 3 departments.
-17-
*
DISBURSEtmENT-LINKED RESULTS
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO HE 
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE
DISBURSEMENT- 
ACHIEVED IN 
ACHIEVED IN 
ACHIEVED IN 
ACHIEVED IN 
ACHIEVED IN
LINKED INDICAToRS 
FY2017/18 (YEAR 1) 
FY2018/19 (YEAR 2) 
FY2019/20 (YEAR 3) 
FY2020/21 (YEAR 4) 
FY2021/22 (YEAR 5)
Allocated 
$1,000,000 
$2,500,000 
52,000,000 
$2,000,000 
S1,000,000 for
Amounts 
achievement up to
75%; and $ 125,000
for every additional
5% achievement over
75%
2. 
Enhanced 
(i) Finance Department 
The Finance 
Budget disclosures 
The Finance 
The Finance
transparency of 
has notified and 
Department has 
made by Finance 
Department has 
Department has
key budget. 
published the 
provided public access 
Department include at 
provided public 
provided public
financial and 
procurement rules and 
to inffrmation on at 
least the following: (a) 
access to 
access to in-year
procurement 
SBD in the Official 
least 60% of 
object head wise 
information on at 
Budget execution
information 
Gazette of GoA; 
procurement contracts 
expenditure; (b) 
least 90%A 
of 
reports in user-
awarded within the 
outstanding liabilities; 
procurement 
friendly formats6.
(ii) Budlget disclosures 
financial year over the 
(c) salary details for 
contracts awarded
made by Finance (-procurement 
govement; (d) 
within the financial
Department include at 
threshold within 30 
budgetary impact of 
year over the e-
least the following 
days of award' 
major policy changes; 
procurement
sections: (a) Budget 
and (e) procurement 
threshold within 3
glance; (b) Analytical 
plan for 3 major 
days of award5
Statement; (c) Transfer 
spending departments
to Local Bodies; and (d)
L Ecluding specific locations/entities facing connectivity problems or located in difficult terrain that may be specifically exempted through separate GoA's
orders.
Same as note 6.
s"User-friendly 
format" means budget execution reports providing month-wise and cumulative budget head wise information on budget versus actual and
data for current year and previous year and available on government website with download/search options in different formats, without any charge or need
to register
- 18-
*
DISBURSEMENT-LINKED RESULTS
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE
DISBURSEMENT- 
ACHIEVED IN 
ACHIEVED IN 
ACHIEVED IN 
ACHIEVED IN 
ACHIEVED IN
LINKED INDICATORS 
FY2017/18 (YEAR 1) 
FY2018/19 (YEAR 2) 
FY2019/20 (YEAR 3) 
FY2020/21 (YEAR 4) 
FY2021/22 (YEAR 5)
Action Taken Report on
the budget of the
previous year
Allocated 
(a) USD 500,000 for 
$1,000,000 
$1,000,000 
$500,000 
$500,000
Anounts 
meeting DLI (i) above;
and
(b) USD 500,000 fbr
meeting DLI (ii) above.
E-Collection portal 
(i) At least 70% of 
(i) At least 80% of 
(i) 100% of excise and
developed and rolled 
excise and non-GST tax 
excise and non-OST tax 
non-GST tax
out for excise and all 
(administered by CoT) 
(administered by CoT) 
(administered by CoT)
3. 
Increased e- 
non-GST taxes 
collected through thee- 
collected through thee- 
collected through the
collections and e- 
administered by CoT 
Collection portal over 
Collection portal over 
e-Collection portal
p(tyments 
specified threshold;' 
specified threshold'; 
over specified
and 
and 
threshold9; and
(ii) At least 60% of the 
(ii) At least 70% of the 
(ii) At least 80% of the
payments made by the 
payments made by the 
payments made by
treasuries have been 
treasuries have been 
treasuries have been
made electronically 
made electronically 
made electronically
_____________________________using 
e-Kuber 
using e-Kuber 
using e-Kuber 
_________
This will be supported by the issuance of GoA's orders mandating payment of excise dues and non-ST tax through the -Collection portal, above a
spacified threshold mentioned in said Order.
(Same 
as note 8.
p 
eSame 
as note 8.
- 19-
*
DISBURSEMENT-LINKED RESULTS
RESULTS TO HE 
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE
DISBURSEMENT- 
ACHIEVED IN 
ACHIEVED IN 
ACHIEVED IN 
ACHIEVED IN 
ACHIEVED IN
LINKED INDICATORS 
FY2017/18 (YEAR 1) 
FY2018/19 (YEAR 2) 
FY2019120 (YEAR 3) 
FY2020/21 (YEAR 4) 
FY2021/22 (YEAR 5)
Allocated 
$1,000,000 
(a) USD 500,000 for
Amounts 
(a) USD 500,000 for 
(a) USD 500,000 for 
meeting DLI (i) above;
meeting DLI (i) above; 
meeting DLI (i) above; 
and
and 
and 
O 
(b) USD 500,000 for
(b) USD 500,000 for 
(b) USD 500,000 for 
meeting DLI (ii)
meeting DLI (ii) above. 
meeting DLI (ii) above. 
above.
4. 
Enhanced 
Contract for new IT 
CoT has operationalized 
CoT has operationalized 
CoT has generated 
100% of non-GST
services provided 
application for CoT 
the utilities for e-retums 
the utilities for Invoice 
Tax arrears certificate 
tax returns for the
by CoT using e- 
awarded by AS-CFMS 
and online scrutiny of 
matching and ITC auto- 
for initiating tax 
previous year are
Govenance 
returns for all non-GST 
population for VAT 
arrears recovery online 
filed electronically
state taxes in the new IT 
returns in the new IT 
within 30 days of
application 
application 
completion of
assessment
Allocated
Amounts 
$1,000,000 
$2,500,000 
S1,500,000 
$500,000 
$500,000
5. Enhanced services 
(i) Assam has notified 
Excise Department has 
Excise Department has 
Excise Department has 
The Excise Revenue
provided by Excise 
the Excise Rules 2016 
issued at least 10% of 
issued at least 50% of 
issued at least 80% of 
collection has
Department using e- in the Official Gazette 
all transport permits 
all transport permits 
all transport permits 
increased by at least
Governance" 
i 
(issued in the financial 
(issued in the financial 
(issued in the financial 
80% over the revenue
(ii) Contract for e- 
year) electronically 
year) electronically 
year) electronically 
in financial year
governance solution for 
2015/16
Excise Department has
been awarded by AS-
CFMS
tThe e-governance solution will include work flow processes for the issuance of transport permits, excise licenses, registration of labels and scanning by use
of Quick Response Codes, and the provision of service standards for delivery of services. It will be supported by the issuance of GoA's order mandating online
requests by the licensees and rendering of services on-line by the Excise Department in a phased manner.
- 20 -
*
DISBURSEMENT-LINKED RESULTS
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE
DISBURSEMENT- 
ACHIEVED IN 
ACHIEVED IN 
ACHIEVED IN 
ACHIEVED IN 
ACHIEVED IN
LINKED INDICATORs 
FY2017/18 (YEAR I) 
FY2018/19 (YEAR 2) 
FY2019/20 (YEAR 3) 
FY2020/21 (YEAR 4) 
FY2021/22 (YEAR 5)
Allocated 
(a) 51,000,000 ibr 
$1,000,000 
$1,500,000 
$800,000 for 
$400,000 for
Amounts 
meeting DLI (i) above; 
achievement up to 
achievement up to
and 
80%; and $50,000 
80%; and $25,000 for
(b) USD 1,000,000 fbr 
for every additional 
every additional 5%
meeting DLI (ii) above. 
5% achievement 
achievement over
over 80%
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and
Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
2. 
"Assam Society for Comprehensive Financial Management System" or "AS-CFMS"
means the society established as a special purpose vehicle under Assam's Finance
Department for the purposes of, inter alia, monitoring, supervising, and coordinating
the implementation of the Project, or any successor thereto, acceptable to the Bank.
3. 
"Assam" means the Borrower's State of Assam.
4. 
"BCO" means Assam's budget controlling officers.
5. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
6. 
"Cash and Debt Management Unit" means the unit to be established under Assam's
Finance Department with the purposes of strengthening the Finance Department's
function of cash and debt management.
7. 
"CoT" means Assam's Office of Commissioner of Taxes or any successor thereto,
acceptable to the Bank.
8. 
"DDOs" means Assam's drawing and disbursing officers.
9. 
"Direct Benefit Transfer Program" or "DBT" means the Borrower's mechanism of
transferring cash benefits directly to individual beneficiaries through their bank
accounts.
10. 
"Disbursement Linked Indicator" and the acronym "DLI" mean any one of the
indicators set out in the table in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and "DLIs" means, more
than one such DLI.
11. 
"DLI Target" means any one of the annual targets set to be achieved under each DLI
as set forth in the table in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and "DLI Targets" means,
collectively, more than one such target.
12. 
"DLI Target Achievement Date" means, with regard to each DLI Target, the end of the
Fiscal Year during which the relevant DLI Target is set to be achieved as set forth in
the table in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
- 22 -
13. 
"DLI Value" means the total amount of the Loan allocated to each DLI Target as set
forth in the table in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as such amount may be reallocated
in whole or in part among the DLI Targets or among the Categories by notice from the
Bank from time to time.
14. 
"Eligible Expenditure Program" and the acronym "EEP" mean the actual expenditures
incurred by the Borrower, the Project Implementing Entity and the Implementing
Departments for the implementation of Component 2.2 of the Project, as detailed in
the Project Implementation Plan.
15. 
"e-Kuber" means the core banking solution of RBI which provides a single current
account for each bank across the country with decentralized access to this account
using safe portal based services.
16. 
"DLI Verification Protocol" means the set and procedures, prepared for the Project and
acceptable to the Bank, to verify the achievement of DLI Targets, which sets out, inter
alia, the description of the evidence required; as the same may be amended from time
to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
17. 
"ED" means Assam's Excise Department or any successor thereto, acceptable to the
Bank.
18. 
"Finance Department" or "FD" means Assam's Department of Finance or any
successor thereto, acceptable to the Bank.
19. 
"Fiscal Year" and the acronym "FY" mean the Recipient's fiscal year, which
commences on April 1 in a given calendar year and closes on March 31 of the following
calendar year.
20. 
"FMIS" means financial management information system.
21. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
22. 
"GoA" means Government of Assam.
23. 
"GST" means goods and service tax.
24. 
"HoD" means Assam head of the departments.
25. 
"Implementing Departments" means Assam's departments including, inter alia,
Finance Department, including its Directorate of Accounts and Treasuries, Office of
Commissioner of Taxes; Excise Department, Planning and Development Department,
-23-
and Information Technology Department, assisting AS-CFMS in the implementation
of specific activities under the Project.
26. 
"IT" means Information Technology.
27. 
"ITC" means input tax credit.
28. 
"IT Systems Integrator" means the person/ company specialized in bringing together
component subsystems into a whole and ensure that said subsystems work together in
a technical satisfactory manner.
29. 
"Knowledge Transfer Visits" means trips to other States and/or other countries as
needed, with the purpose of getting exposure to selected areas of knowledge and/or
expertise.
30. 
"MIS" means management information system.
31. 
"Official Gazette" means Assam's official journal, aperiodical publication that records
the business and proceedings of GoA and has been authorized to publish legal notices.
32. 
"Operating Costs" means, inter alia, the following additional costs incurred in the
carrying out of the Project: (i) remuneration of individuals appointed, and staff deputed
to the Project and assigned to positions specifically created for purposes of the Project;
and (ii) the costs of office expenses under the Project, including, hiring and
maintenance of vehicles, office rent, office maintenance, and operation and
maintenance of office's equipment purchased under the Project, communication costs,
data collection for purposes of the Project, and Project related domestic and
international travel costs including allowances.
33. 
"PFMS" means "Public Financial Management System"
34. 
"Project Implementation Plan" means the implementation plan for the Project
including all annexes thereto, acceptable to the Bank, dated May 16, 2017, which
describes, inter alia, the implementation and institutional arrangements and
arrangements for compliance, verification and disbursement against DLIs for the
Project, and audits, as such plan may be amended from time to time by agreement
between Assam and the Bank.
35. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means the Borrower's State of Assam.
36. 
"PMU" or Project Management Unit means the coordination unit established within
AS-CFMS Society and referred to in Section I.A.1 of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.
- 24 -
37. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
May 16, 2017, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time
to time in accordance with the provision of said paragraphs.
38. 
"PPPs" means "Public Private Partnership".
"PPP Cell" means the unit to be established under Assam's Planning and Development
Department vested with the responsibility of, inter alia, providing guidance and
support in effective implementation of Assam's PPP policy.
39. 
"RBr' or "Reserve Bank of India" means the Borrower's central bank.
40. 
"SBD" means standard bidding document.
41. 
"Training" means non-consultant expenditures incurred in connection with the
provision of training, including, study tours and workshops, training institution fees,
logistics, materials, and the cost of travel and per diem of trainers and trainees.
42. 
"VAT" means value added tax.
Section I. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the
rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn
Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge").
The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-
annually in arrears on each Payment Date."
- 25 -
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph
2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01
with Section 3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not
limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee,
the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion,
the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding
Amount payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting the
words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
