OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8741-BA
Loan Agreement
(Banking Sector Strengthening Project)
between
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
,e 
0 Ar 3/ 
2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8741-BA
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
o 
r 
, 2017, between BOSNIA AND
HERZEGOVINA 
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty-six million six hundred thousand
Euro (E56,600,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through
a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the Project described in Schedule I to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, however, that the interest payable shall in no event be less than zero
percent (0%) per annum and provided furthermore that, upon a Conversion of all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the
Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance
remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty
-2-
days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as
provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; and (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.09. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate
basis applicable to consecutive withdrawals from the Loan Account which in the
aggregate equal or exceed three million Euro (E3,000,000) shall be converted
-3-
from the initial Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable Spread
to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable Spread for
the full maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of the General
Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall cause: (a) Part A of the Project to be carried out by FBiH; and
(b) Part B of the Project to be carried out by RS, all in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the Project Agreements.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
either Entity shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the
relevant Subsidiary Agreement.
(b) 
either Entity's legislation, including any Law on Banks, has been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of said Entity to perform any of its
obligations under the relevant Project Agreement or Subsidiary
Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: any event
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period
of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the
Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The relevant Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and at least one Entity.
(b) 
The PIT for the Entity referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 5.01 has
been established with composition, functions and resources acceptable to
the Bank.
-4-
(c) 
The Entity referred to in paragraph (a) has adopted its Project Operations
Manual in a manner and with contents acceptable to the Bank.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following: namely that the Subsidiary
Agreement referred to in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity in accordance
with its terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty (180) days after the
date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance and Treasury.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance and Treasury
TrgBiH 1
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Facsimile:
(387-33) 202-930
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as of the day and year first above written.
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
By
ti 
ized Rep esentative
Name: V,)o(1,q-Av 8V'Y 
4
Title: 
R/A_/c7_C_
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
A horized Representative
ame: Z5 N 4w 11 
1YAN02
Ti 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve the soundness of the banking sector by
enhancing bank regulation, supervision and resolution capacity and by enhancing the
governance of the Entity Development Banks.
The Project consists of the following parts:
PART A. THE FEDERATION OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Part A.1. Strengthening Banking Sector Regulation and Supervision Aligned with
Basel III Regime, Tailored to the Level of Development of the Banking Sector
Providing financing for a FBiH Eligible Expenditure Program to support the FBA
to: (i) strengthen capital and liquidity requirements for banks to withstand solvency and
liquidity shocks; (ii) introduce a risk appetite framework and an internal capital adequacy
assessment process; and (iii) introduce a revised supervisory risk-based methodology
aligned with SREP.
Part A.2. Addressing Weaknesses in the Banking Sector
Providing financing for a FBiH Eligible Expenditure Program to support the FBA
to: (i) enhance the terms of reference for AQRs; (ii) carry out outstanding AQRs; and (iii)
enforce the results of AQRs that have been carried out.
Part A.3. Implementation of the Bank Resolution Framework set forth in the FBiH
Law on Banks
Providing financing for a FBiH Eligible Expenditure Program to support the FBA
to: (i) prepare and adopt bylaws and decisions on bank recovery and resolution; (ii)
establish and operationalize a dedicated bank resolution unit; and (iii) adopt an internal
assessment methodology for recovery plans and subsequent assessment of recovery plans
to be submitted by all banks to FBA.
Part A.4. Strengthening Institutional, Corporate Governance and Supervisory
Arrangements of RBFBiH
Providing financing for a FBiH Eligible Expenditure Program to support: (i) the
FBiH's definition and approval of the strategic vision for RBFBiH; (ii) RBFBiH's
development and approval of a business plan; and (iii) RBFBiH's alignment of risk
management organization, reporting lines, policies and procedures with the FBA
requirements for regulated banks.
-7-
Part A.5. Technical Assistance
Providing technical assistance to support FBiH's achievement of DLRs.
PART B. THE RS
Part B.1. Strengthening Banking Sector Regulation and Supervision Aligned with
Basel III Regime, Tailored to the Level of Development of the Banking Sector
Providing financing for an RS Eligible Expenditure Program to support the BARS
to: (i) strengthen capital and liquidity requirements for banks to withstand solvency and
liquidity shocks; (ii) introduce a risk appetite framework and an internal capital adequacy
assessment process; and (iii) introduce a revised supervisory risk-based methodology
aligned with SREP.
Part B.2. Addressing Weaknesses in the Banking Sector
Providing financing for an RS Eligible Expenditure Program to support the BARS
to: (i) enhance the terms of reference for AQRs; (ii) carry out outstanding AQRs; and (iii)
enforce the results of AQRs that have been carried out.
Part B.3. Support BARS in the Implementation of the Bank Resolution Framework
set forth in the RS Law on Banks
Providing financing for an RS Eligible Expenditure Program to support the BARS
to: (i) prepare and adopt bylaws and decisions on bank recovery and resolution; (ii)
establish and operationalize a dedicated bank resolution unit; and (iii) adopt an internal
assessment methodology for recovery plans and subsequent assessment of recovery plans
to be submitted by all banks to BARS.
Part B.4. Strengthening Institutional, Corporate Governance and Supervisory
Arrangements of IRBRS
Providing financing for an RS Eligible Expenditure Program to support: (i) the RS
definition and approval of the strategic vision for IRBRS; (ii) the transfer of identified
Funds' assets aligned with IRBRS' strategy to IRBRS; and (iii) IRBRS' full compliance
with BARS bylaw governing the application of banking regulations to IRBRS.
Part B.5. Technical Assistance
Providing technical assistance to support RS' achievement of DLRs.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section 1. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
The Borrower shall cause each Entity to establish and maintain a Project
Implementation Team (PIT) at all times during the implementation of the Project,
with 
sufficient 
resources, 
competent 
staff in 
adequate 
numbers 
and
responsibilities, all acceptable to the Bank and as set forth in the Project Operations
Manual.
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement
1 .
To facilitate the carrying out of Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall make part
of the proceeds of the Loan, allocated from time to time to Categories (1) and (2)
available to FBiH under a subsidiary agreement between the Borrower and the
FBiH, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank ("the FBiH Subsidiary
Agreement").
2. 
To facilitate the carrying out of Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall make part
of the proceeds of the Loan, allocated from time to time to Categories (3) and (4)
available to RS under a subsidiary agreement between the Borrower and the RS,
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank ("the RS Subsidiary
Agreement").
3. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each
Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Agreements or any of their provisions.
C. 
Project Operations Manual
1 .
The Borrower shall cause each Entity to adopt and thereafter carry out the Project
in accordance with the provisions of a manual (the Project Operations Manual), in
a manner and with contents acceptable to the Bank, including inter alia: (i) the
roles and responsibilities of all entities involved in Project; (ii) a detailed
description of the EEPs; (iii) the indicators to be used in the monitoring and
evaluation of the Project; (vi) the procedures for Project monitoring, supervision
and evaluation, including the format and content of the Project Reports; (v) the
DLI and DLR verification protocols; and (vi) procurement and financial
management procedures including clearly defined procedures related to payments
-9-
verification and processing, and record and management of Eligible Expenditures
financed with the Loan proceeds.
2. 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower shall not
abrogate, amend, suspend, waive or otherwise fail to enforce the Project
Operations Manual or any provision thereof.
3. 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Project Operations Manual and
those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
D. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
Section II. 
Project Monitorin2 Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall cause each Entity to monitor and evaluate the progress of the
Project and prepare Project Reports of the Entity's Respective Part of the Project
in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and
on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the Project
Operations Manual. Each Project Report of the Entity's Respective Part of the
Project shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to
the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the period covered by
such report.
2. 
By September 30, 2018, or such other date acceptable to the Bank, the Borrower
shall cause the FBiH and the RS to carry out jointly with the Bank, a mid-term
review of the implementation of activities under the Project (Mid-term Review).
The Mid-term Review shall cover the progress achieved in the implementation of
the Project. Following such Mid-term Review, the Borrower shall cause the FBiH
and the RS to act promptly and diligently to take or cause to be taken any corrective
action as shall be recommended by the Bank.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain and cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the FBiH and the RS to prepare and furnish to the Bank
not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim
-10-
unaudited financial reports for their Respective Parts of the Project covering the
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall or shall cause the Financial Statements to be audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each
audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the
Borrower, commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal was made
under the Preparation Advance for the Project. The audited Financial Statements
for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after
the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods and Non-consulting Services. All goods and non-consulting services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I
of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services
1. 
National Competitive Bidding. 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, goods and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding procedures, subject to the
additional provisions in Annex 1 to this Schedule.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than National Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) Shopping; and (b) Direct Contracting.
-11-
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
I. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; 
(d) 
Selection based on Consultants'
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Procedures set
forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of
Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"Disbursement Guidelines for Investment Project Financing" dated February
2017, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
-12-
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Category 
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in Euro) 
financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) FBiH Eligible 
27,279,250 
100%
Expenditure Program
(2) Goods, non-consulting 
950,000 
100%
services, consultants'
services, Training, and
Incremental Operating
Costs for Part A.5 of the
Project
(3) RS Eligible 
27,279,250 
100%
Expenditure Program
(4) Goods, non-consulting 
950,000 
100%
services, consultants'
services, Training, and
Incremental Operating
Costs for Part B.5 of the
Project
(3) Front-end Fee 
141,500 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(4) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar 
Section 2.08(c) of this
premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
56600000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
from the Loan Account for payments made prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed El 1,320,000 may be made for payments made prior to this date but
on or after the date falling twelve (12) months before the date of this
Agreement, for Eligible Expenditures.
(b) 
under Categories (1) and (2) unless:
(i) 
the FBiH Project Agreement has been executed by its parties;
-13-
(ii) 
the FBiH Subsidiary Agreement has been executed by its parties;
(iii) 
an opinion, or opinions, of counsel acceptable to the Bank has
been furnished to the Bank stating that the FBiH Project
Agreement and the FBiH Subsidiary Agreement have been duly
authorized or ratified by the parties thereto and are legally binding
upon them in accordance with their respective terms;
(iv) 
the FBiH PIT has been established with composition, functions
and resources acceptable to the Bank;
(v) 
the FBiH Banking Laws have been approved and duly published
with contents acceptable to the Bank; and
(vi) 
the Project Operations Manual of the FBiH has been approved by
the FBiH in a manner and with contents acceptable to the Bank.
(c) 
under Categories (3) and (4) unless:
(i) 
the RS Project Agreement has been executed by its parties;
(ii) 
the RS Subsidiary Agreement has been executed by its parties;
(iii) 
an opinion, or opinions, of counsel acceptable to the Bank has
been furnished to the Bank stating that the RS Project Agreement
and the RS Subsidiary Agreement have been duly authorized or
ratified by the parties thereto and are legally binding upon them in
accordance with their respective terms;
(iv) 
the RS PIT has been established with composition, functions and
resources acceptable to the Bank; and
(v) 
the Project Operations Manual of the RS has been approved by the
RS in a manner and with contents acceptable to the Bank.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2020.
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
1. 
Without limitation to the provisions set forth in Section IV.B. 1. of this Schedule,
each withdrawal under Category (1) shall be made only after the Borrower has
furnished to the Bank: (i) evidence acceptable to the Bank in its form and content
and following the requirements set forth in the Project Operations Manual,
confirming the achievement of the respective DLI or DLRs set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement; and (ii) supporting documentation acceptable to the Bank
-14-
confirming that expenditures under the FBiH Eligible Expenditure Program in an
amount at least equal to the amount to be withdrawn under this Category in respect
of each DLI or DLR, have been made, and that said expenditures have not been
presented before to the Bank as satisfactory evidence for withdrawals under this
Agreement.
2. 
Without limitation to the provisions set forth in Section IV.B.1. of this Schedule,
each withdrawal under Category (3) shall be made only after the Borrower has
furnished to the Bank: (i) evidence acceptable to the Bank in its form and content
and following the requirements set forth in the Project Operations Manual,
confirming the achievement of the respective DLI or DLRs set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement; and (ii) supporting documentation acceptable to the Bank
confirming that expenditures under the RS Eligible Expenditure Program in an
amount at least equal to the amount to be withdrawn under this Category in respect
of each DLI or DLR, have been made, and that said expenditures have not been
presented before to the Bank as satisfactory evidence for withdrawals under this
Agreement.
3. 
With respect to DLRs 2.2 and 2.3 in the tables of Schedules 4 and 5 to this
Agreement, if the targets for said DLIs are not met by their respective due dates,
the amounts allocated for withdrawal under said DLRs may: (i) remain available
for subsequent withdrawals until the respective DLR is met in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank, or (ii) be cancelled by the Bank.
-15-
ANNEX 1 TO SCHEDULE 2
Additional Provisions for National Competitive Bidding
For the purposes of following National Competitive Bidding procedures in the
procurement of goods and non-consulting services to be financed under the Project, the
following modifications and additions shall apply:
(1) 
Registration
(a) 
bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms;
(b) 
where registration is required, bidders: (i) shall be allowed a reasonable
time to complete the registration process; and (ii) shall not be denied
registration for reasons unrelated to their capability and resources to
successfully perform the contract, which shall be verified through post-
qualification; and
(c) 
foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding. If a registration
process is required, a foreign bidder declared the lowest evaluated bidder
shall be given a reasonable opportunity to register.
(2) 
Advertising
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national daily
newspaper allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days for the preparation and
submission of bids.
(3) 
Pre-qualification
When pre-qualification shall be required for large or complex contracts, invitations
to pre-qualify for bidding shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated
national daily newspaper a minimum of thirty (30) days prior to the deadline for
the submission of pre-qualification applications. Minimum experience and
technical and financial requirements shall be explicitly stated in the pre-
qualification documents.
(4) 
Participation by State-owned enterprises
State-owned enterprises in Bosnia and Herzegovina, including those in the FBiH
and RS, shall be eligible to participate in bidding only if they can establish that
they are legally and financially autonomous, operate under commercial law and
are not a dependent agency of the contracting authority. Furthermore, they will be
subject to the same bid and performance security requirements as other bidders.
-16-
(5) 
Bidding Documents
Procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard bidding documents for the
procurement of goods or services, acceptable to the Bank.
(6) 
Bid Opening and Bid Evaluation
(a) 
bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for
submission of bids;
(b) 
evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the monetarily
quantifiable criteria declared in the bidding documents; and
(c) 
contracts shall be awarded to the qualified bidder having submitted the
lowest-evaluated, substantially responsive bid and no negotiation shall
take place.
(7) 
Price Adjustment
Contracts of long duration (more than 18 months) shall contain an appropriate
price adjustment clause.
(8) 
Rejection of Bids
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Bank's prior
concurrence.
(9) 
Securities
(a) 
bid security and performance security should follow the generally accepted
practice used in the local market;
(b) 
alternative methods such as bid securing declaration may be acceptable, in
which case the Borrower may require bidders to sign a declaration accepting
that if they withdraw or modify their bids during the period of validity or they
are awarded the contract and they fail to sign the contract or to submit a
performance security before the deadline defined in the bidding documents,
the bidder will be suspended for bidding in any contract with the
implementing unit; and
(c) 
no advance payment shall be made to contractors without a suitable advance
payment security. These securities shall be included in the bidding documents
in a text and format acceptable to the Bank.
-17-
(10) 
Right to inspect and audit
Each contract financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall provide that the
suppliers, contractors and subcontractors shall permit the Bank, at its request, to
inspect their accounts and records relating to the procurement and performance of
the contract and to have said accounts and records audited by auditors appointed
by the Bank. The deliberate and material violation by the supplier, contractor or
subcontractor of such provision may amount to obstructive practice.
(11) 
Fraud and Corruption
The Bank shall declare a firm or individual ineligible, either indefinitely or for a
stated period, to be awarded a contract financed by the Bank, if it at any time
determines that the firm or individual has, directly or through an agent, engaged
in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in competing
for, or in executing, a contract financed by the World Bank Group.
-18-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning May 15, 2024
through May 15, 2049 
1.92%
On November 15, 2049 
2.08%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
-19-
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
-20-
SCHEDULE 4
FBiH Disbursement Linked Indicators
Disbursement 
Disbursement Linked Results 
Amount of the
Linked 
Loan
Indicator 
Allocated
Description 
(expressed in
Euro)
DLI 1. 
DLRl.1: FBA has: (i) completed a quantitative 
DLR 1.1 (i):
Strengthen 
impact study on draft regulations on liquidity 
659,625
bank 
and capital; and (ii) published the results on 
DLR 1.1 (ii):
regulation and 
FBA's website. 
659,625
supervision
aligned with 
DLR 1.2. FBA has adopted bylaws on each of 
DLR 1.2: 472,000
Basel III 
the following topics: (i) capital; (ii) liquidity; 
for each bylaw on
Regime, 
(iii) risk management standards, including risk 
a topic, up to
tailored to the 
appetite framework and internal governance; 
2,360,000
level of 
(iv) internal capital adequacy assessment
development 
process; and (v) consolidated supervision.
of the banking
sector 
DLR 1.3. FBA has adopted a new risk-based 
DLR 1.3:
SREP methodology aligned with EU (EBA) 
2,360,000
Standards.
DLI 2. 
DLR 2.1: FBA has (i) adopted a harmonized 
DLR 2.1(i):
Address 
2017 AQR framework; (ii) approved the final 
1,180,000
weaknesses in 
reports of AQRs of all banks in FBiH's
the banking 
territory not previously subject to an AQR 
DLR 2.1 (ii):
sector 
based on the harmonized 2017 AQR 
1,180,000
framework.
DLR 2.2:
DLR 2.2: All Undercapitalized Banks in 
2,360,000
FBiH's territory have in place either mandatory
time bound corrective action programs or
resolution/liquidation programs by December
31, 2018.
DLR 2.3:
DLR 2.3 All Undercapitalized Banks in FBiH's 
2,360,000
territory have in place either mandatory time
bound corrective action programs or
resolution/liquidation programs by December
31, 2019.
-21-
Disbursement 
Disbursement Linked Results 
Amount of the
Linked 
Loan
Indicator 
Allocated
Description 
(expressed in
Euro)
DLI 3. 
DLR 3.1: FBA has adopted a bylaw on 
DLR 3.1:
Improve 
recovery plans aligned with EU (EBA) 
2,360,000
FBA's ability 
Standards;
to undertake
bank recovery 
DLR 3.2: FBA has established and 
DLR 3.2:
and resolution 
operationalized a dedicated bank resolution unit 
2,360,000
functions 
in accordance with the FBiH Law on Banks,
ensuring that it is adequately resourced and
staffed as well as organizationally and
functionally independent from supervision.
DLR 3.3: (i) All banks in FBiH's territory have
submitted recovery plans; and (ii) FBA has 
DLR 3.3:
assessed these recovery plans following its 
2,360,000
internal assessment methodology.
DLI 4. 
DLR 4.1: FBiH has adopted a strategic 
DLR 4.1:
Improved 
statement for RBFBiH's future development. 
2,360,000
RBFBiH
governance 
DLR 4.2: RBFBiH has approved its business
and business 
plan for the 2018-2020 period. 
DLR 4.2:
model 
2,360,000
DLR 4.3: RBFBiH has aligned its risk
management organization, reporting lines and
policies and procedures with the requirements 
DLR 4.3:
for FBA-regulated banks. 
2,360,000
-22-
SCHEDULE 5
RS Disbursement-Linked Indicators
Disbursement 
Disbursement Linked Results 
Amount of the
Linked 
Loan
Indicator 
Allocated
Description 
(expressed in
Euro)
DLI 1. 
DLIR 1.1: BARS has: (i) completed a 
DLR 1.1 (i):
Strengthen 
quantitative impact study on draft regulations 
659,625
bank 
on liquidity and capital; and (ii) published the 
DLR 1.1 (ii):
regulation and 
results on BARS' website. 
659,625
supervision
aligned with 
DLR 1.2. BARS has adopted bylaws on each of DLRI.2: 472,000
Basel III 
the following topics: (i) capital; (ii) liquidity; 
for each bylaw on
Regime, 
(iii) risk management standards, including risk 
a topic, up to
tailored to the 
appetite framework and internal governance; 
2,360,000
level of 
(iv)intemal capital adequacy assessment
development 
process; and (v) consolidated supervision.
of the banking
sector 
DLR 1.3. BARS has adopted a new risk-based 
DLR 1.3:
SREP methodology aligned with EU (EBA) 
2,360,000
Standards.
DLI 2. 
DLR 2.1: BARS has (i) adopted a harmonized 
DLR 2.1(i):
Address 
2017 AQR framework; (ii) approved the final 
1,180,000
weaknesses in 
reports of AQRs of all banks in RS' territory
the banking 
not previously subject to an AQR based on the 
DLI 2.1 (ii):
sector 
harmonized 2017 AQR framework. 
1,180,000
DLR 2.2: All Undercapitalized Banks in RS' 
DLR 2.2:
territory have in place either mandatory time 
2,360,000
bound corrective action programs or
resolution/liquidation programs by December
31, 2018.
DLR 2.3 All Undercapitalized Banks in RS' 
DLR 2.3:
territory have in place either mandatory time 
2,360,000
bound corrective action programs or
resolution/liquidation programs by December
31, 2019.
-23-
Disbursement 
Disbursement Linked Results 
Amount of the
Linked 
Loan
Indicator 
Allocated
Description 
(expressed in
Euro)
DLI 3. 
DLR 3.1: BARS has adopted a bylaw on 
DLR 3.1:
Improve 
recovery plans aligned with EU (EBA) 
2,360,000
BARS' ability 
standards;
to undertake
bank recovery 
DLR 3.2: BARS has established and 
DLR 3.2:
and resolution 
operationalized a dedicated bank resolution unit 
2,360,000
functions 
in accordance with the RS Law on Banks
ensuring that it is adequately resourced and
staffed as well as organizationally and
functionally independent from supervision.
DLI 3.3: (i) All banks in RS' territory have
submitted recovery plans; and (ii) BARS has 
DLR 3.3:
assessed these recovery plans following its 
2,360,000
internal assessment methodology
DLI 4. 
DLR 4.1: RS has approved a strategic statement 
DLR 4.1:
Improved 
governing IRBRS' future development. 
2,360,000
IRBRS
governance 
DLR 4.2: Transfer of identified Funds' assets
and business 
aligned with IRBRS' strategy to IRBRS in 
DLR 4.2:
model 
compliance with (i) amended IRBRS Law 
2,360,000
specifying IRBRS' revised mandate, and (ii)
IRBRS regulations and BARS bylaw governing
the application of banking regulations to
IRBRS
DLR 4.3:IRBRS is in full compliance with
BARS bylaw governing the application of 
DLI 4.3:
banking regulations to IRBRS 
2,360,000
-24-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"AQR" means asset quality review.
3. 
"BARS" means the Banking Agency of the Republika Srpska, established pursuant
to the Law on the Banking Agency of the Republika Srpska, dated March 20, 1998
and published in the Official Gazette of the Republika Srpska on March 31, 1998,
as amended to the date of this agreement, or its successor within the RS.
4. 
"Basel III Regime" means the international regulatory accords published by the
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision that introduced a set of reforms designed
to improve the regulation, supervision and risk management within the banking
sector.
5. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
6. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
7. 
"Disbursement Linked Indicator" or "DLI" means in respect of a given Category,
the indicator related to said Category as set forth in the tables in Schedule 4 or
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
8. 
"DLR" means in respect of a given Category, the result under said Category as set
forth in the tables in Schedule 4 or Schedule 5 to this Agreement; on the basis of
the achievement of which, the amount of the Loan allocated to said result may be
withdrawn in accordance with the provisions of Sections IV and V of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
9. 
"EEP" means either the FBiH Eligible Expenditure Program, or the RS Eligible
Expenditure Program, as the case may be, collectively referred to as "EEPs"
10. 
"Entity" means either FBiH or RS, as the case may be, collectively referred to as
"Entities".
11. 
"Entity Development Banks" means IRBRS and RBFBiH.
-25-
12. 
"EU (EBA) Standards" means standards issued by the European Banking
Authority (EBA), an independent EU Authority, which works to ensure effective
and consistent prudential regulation and supervision across the European banking
sector.
13. 
"FBA" means the Federation Banking Agency, established pursuant to the Law on
the Banking Agency of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, duly published
in the Official Gazette No. 8 of the FBiH on June 30, 1996, and as amended with
contents acceptable to the Bank.
14. 
"FBiH Banking Laws" means the law on banks in FBiH's territory and the law on
FBA, once approved and duly published with contents acceptable to the Bank, and
their successors acceptable to the Bank.
15. 
"FBiH Eligible Expenditure Program" means a portion of FBiH's budgetary
allocation for salaries under budget lines 6111, 6112 and 612, or their successors
acceptable to the Bank.
16. 
"FBiH PIT" means the FBiH Project Implementation team referred to in Section
I.A of the Schedule to the FBiH Project Agreement, and includes any successor or
successors thereto.
17. 
"FBiH Project Agreement" means the Project Agreement entered into between the
Bank and FBiH for purposes of carrying out Part A of the Project, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to said Project Agreement.
18. 
"FBiH Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.B. I of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the
proceeds of the Loan available to FBiH.
19. 
"Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina" or "FBiH" means the Federation of
Bosnia and Herzegovina, a constitutive part of the Recipient, and includes any
successor or successors thereto.
20. 
"Funds" refers to the RS Development and Employment Fund, the Eastern
Republic of Srpska Development Fund, the Housing Fund, the Share Fund, the
Restitution Fund, and the Real Estate and Claims Fund, all maintained and
operated by RS prior to the implementation of Part A.4(iii) of the Project.
21. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
-26-
22. 
"Implementation Agreement" means either the agreement between: (i) FBiH and
FBA; (ii) FBiH and RBFBiH; (iii) RS and BARS; or (iv) RS and IRBRS, as the
case may be, all as set forth in Section D. I of the Schedule to each Project
Agreement, and collectively referred to as "Implementation Agreements".
23. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the reasonable expenses incurred by the
FBiH PIT or the RS PIT on account of implementing each Entity's Respective Part
of the Project, and includes communication, bank charges, translation and
interpretation and such other expenditures as may be agreed upon by the Bank (but
excluding salaries of civil servants).
24. 
"IRBRS" means the Investment Development Bank of the Republika Srpska,
established pursuant to the Law on Investment-Development Bank of Republika
Srpska, dated May 17, 2006 and duly published in the Official Gazette No. 56 of
the Republika Srpska on June 14, 2006, as amended to the date of this Agreement,
or its successor within the RS.
25. 
"IRRBB" means Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book.
26. 
"Law on Banks" means either the FBiH Banking Laws or the RS Law on Banks,
as the case may be, collectively referred to as "Laws on Banks".
27. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
28. 
"Procurement Plan" means the FBiH's procurement plan for its Respective Part of
the Project, dated March 23, 2017, or the RS's procurement plan for its Respective
Part of the Project, dated March 27, 2017, all as referred to in paragraph 1.18 of
the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as
the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of
said paragraphs.
29. 
"Project Agreement" means either the FBiH Project Agreement or the RS Project
Agreement, as the case may be, collectively referred to as "Project Agreements".
30. 
"Project Implementation Team" or "PIT" means either the FBiH PIT or the RS
PIT, as the case may be, collectively referred to as "Project Implementation
Teams" or "PITs"
31. 
"Project Operations Manual" or "POM" means the manual for each Entity referred
to in Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
32. 
"RBFBiH" means the Development Bank of the Federation of Bosnia and
Herzegovina, established pursuant to the Law on the Development Bank of the
-27-
Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and published in the Official Gazette No.
37 of the FBiH on June 23, 2008.
33. 
"Republika Srpska" or "RS" means Republika Srpska, a constitutive part of the
Borrower.
34. 
"RS Eligible Expenditure Program" means a portion of RS' budgetary allocation
for salaries under budget lines 4111 and 4112, or their successors acceptable to the
Bank.
35. 
"RS Law on Banks" means the Law on Banks in Republika Srpska, dated
December 28, 2016 and published in the Official Gazette of the Republika Srpska
on January 17, 2017.
36. 
"RS PIT" means the RS Project Implementation team referred to in Section L.A of
the Schedule to the RS Project Agreement, and includes any successor or
successors thereto.
37. 
"RS Project Agreement" means the Project Agreement entered into between the
Bank and RS for purposes of carrying out Part B of the Project, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to said Project Agreement.
38. 
"RS Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.B.2 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the
proceeds of the Loan available to RS.
39. 
"SREP" means Supervisory Review and Evaluation Process.
40. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means either the FBiH Subsidiary Agreement or the RS
Subsidiary Agreement, collectively referred to as "Subsidiary Agreements".
41. 
"Training" means expenditures (other than for consultants' services), incurred
during the implementation of the Project, based on periodic budgets acceptable to
the Bank, for: (i) reasonable travel, room, board and per diem expenditures
incurred by trainers and trainees in connection with their training; (ii) course fees;
(iii) training/workshop facility and equipment rentals; and (iv) training material
preparation, acquisition, reproduction and distribution expenses not otherwise
covered under this paragraph.
42. 
"Undercapitalized Bank" means a bank in non-compliance with the regulatory
minimum capital requirements (currently 12 percent), collectively referred to as
"Undercapitalized Banks".
-28-
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan
amount at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement
(the "Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective
dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan
Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-
annually in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified
in the Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.0 1(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties
to the Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions,
including (but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance,
interest, the Front-end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default
Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a
-29-
Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread
Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount
payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
