OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8706-AR
Loan Agreement
(Metropolitan Buenos Aires Urban Transformation Project - Autonomous City of Buenos
Aires)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
AUTONOMOUS CITY OF BUENOS AIRES
Dated beCa 
bef201-f
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 6"Y0aft i_A 2011- between 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") and AUTONOMOUS 
CITY OF
BUENOS AIRES ("Borrower" or "CABA").
WHEREAS the PBA intends to contract from the Bank a loan in the amount of thirty million
Dollars ($30,000,000) to assist in financing the activities to be carried out by PBA and described
in Schedule 1 to the agreement to be entered into between the Bank and the PBA (the PBA Loan
Agreement) on the terms and conditions set forth therein, which activities, jointly with the activities
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, constitute the Project for purposes of paragraph 75 of
the Appendix of the General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred seventy million Dollars ($170,000,000),
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in
financing the activities described in Schedule I to this Agreement, and identified, for
purposes of this Agreement, as Parts 1, 2 and 3 of the Project.
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, however, that the
interest payable shall in no event be less than zero percent (0%) per annum; and provided
-2-
furthermore that, upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General
Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance
remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then
the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02
(e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are June 1 and December 1 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; and (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice
versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the
Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower: (a) through CABA PIU and SECISYU shall carry out Part 1 of the Project; and
(b) through CABA PIU shall carry out Parts 2 and 3 of the Project, all in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project
is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that the PBA shall
have failed to comply with any of its obligations under the PBA Loan Agreement in such
a manner so as to affect, materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability
of the PBA to achieve the objectives of the Project.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the event
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 60 days
after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Effective conditions consist of the following:
(a) 
that the CABA PIU has been established as provided in Section I.A. I of Schedule
2 to this Agreement, and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b) 
that the public deed for the purchase of the land to enable the Borrower to carry
out Parts 1.2 (ii) and (iv) of the Project has been duly registered in the Borrower's
Registro de la Propiedad Inmueble.
5.02. 
Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Rivadavia 524
Autonomous City of Buenos Aires
Argentine Republic
Facsimile: 4323-9617
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
-4-
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
AGREED at 
B 
1 
M I eS kfqE(f 
, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
('Au krized Representative)
Name: 
Leko 
R4ehf.SChfl
Title: 
(r 
ec
AUTONOMOUS CIT OF BU NO 
I
By
( uthorized 
epresentative)
Name: 
C T 
4x
Title: 
M 
5'- 
die, RadeA~dA-
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to improve housing conditions and access to selected basic services
and infrastructure in selected disadvantaged neighborhoods in the Buenos Aires Metropolitan Area
(AMBA), and strengthen the institutional capacity for urban management at the metropolitan level.
For purposes of this Agreement, the parts of the Project which the Borrower has agreed to carry
out are the following:
Part 1: Urban and Social Integration of Barrio 31
1.1: 
Improvement of Basic Infrastructure
Carrying out of technical designs and investments in basic infrastructure within Barrio 31
to improve access to water supply, sanitation, storm water drainage, public lighting, paved
roads and electricity, through, inter alia, the completion and the improvement of existing
basic infrastructure networks.
1.2: 
Improvement of Housing Conditions
Carrying out of the following activities in the sequencing mentioned below:
(i) 
Carrying out of a plan to identify selected public spaces in the area located under
the Illia Highway;
(ii) 
based on the plan mentioned in (i) herein, carrying out of technical designs and the
related construction of approximately one thousand two hundred new housing
units on a plot of land adjacent to Barrio 31;
(iii) 
carrying out of selected infrastructure development investments to improve access
to, inter alia, water supply, sewerage, storm water drains, paved roads, public
lighting, electricity and gas, in the plot of land mentioned in (ii) herein;
(iv) 
based on the construction of the houses mentioned in (ii) herein, carrying out the
relocation of around one thousand one hundred households living under a section
of the Illia Highway that crosses Barrio 31 and/or around the Illia Highway, to the
housing units mentioned in (ii) herein, in accordance with the relocation criteria
set forth in the RPF;
(v) 
carrying out of technical designs of the selected public spaces mentioned in (i)
herein, and thereafter carrying out of selected works to develop said new public
spaces in the area located under the Illia Highway; and
-6-
(vi) 
if applicable, provision of land and compensation in connection with Resettlement
under Parts 1.2 (ii), (iii), (iv) and (v) above, as provided in Section IV.B.2 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Part 2: Strengthening Institutional Capacities for Metropolitan Urban Management
2.1 
The development of a metropolitan information system, to collect, share and publish data
relevant to urban planning and service delivery at the metropolitan level.
2.2 
The identification and development of financing instruments and mechanisms for
investments at the metropolitan level.
2.3 
The provision of technical assistance and capacity building to develop the Borrower's and
PBA's joint agenda for institutional coordination at the metropolitan level.
Part 3: Project Management and Monitoring (CABA)
3.1 
Provision of support for Project management activities performed by CABA PIU,
including: (i) the carrying out of audits; (ii) the carrying out of monitoring and evaluation
activities; (iii) the carrying out of activities to strengthen CABA PIU's and the Borrower's
technical staff capacity; (iv) the financing of Operating Costs; (v) the collection of data at
Specific Stages of Project Implementation; and (vi) the definition of baselines for the
periodic monitoring and evaluation of the Project's results.
3.2 
Provision of technical assistance, including, inter alia: (i) the development of an impact
evaluation mechanism for the Borrower's Barrio 31 Intervention; (ii) the development of
strategies for managing the transfer of the operation and maintenance of the investments
mentioned in Part 1.1 and 1.2 (iv) of the Project to the respective water and sanitation, gas
and electricity service providers; and (iii) the development of strategies for Land Value
Capture in the Borrower's territory.
-7-
SCHEDULE2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower, through MoF, shall establish, operate and maintain, at all times during
Project implementation, a Project implementation unit ("CABA PIU"), with the structure,
functions and responsibilities set forth in the Operational Manual.
2. 
The Borrower, through MoF, shall ensure that CABA PIU is, at all times during Project
implementation, assisted by professional staff (including, inter alia, a Project coordinator,
a financial management specialist, a procurement specialist, an environmental specialist,
a social specialist and a monitoring and evaluation specialist) and administrative staff, all
in numbers and with terms of reference, and qualifications and experience, acceptable to
the Bank.
B. 
Operational Manual
1 .
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower,
through: (a) CABA PIU and SECISYU shall carry out Part 1 of the Project; and (b) CABA
PIU shall carry out Parts 2 and 3 of the Project, all in accordance with the provisions of a
manual (the Operational Manual), acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia:
(i) the procedures for the carrying out, monitoring and evaluation of Parts 1, 2 and 3 of the
Project; (ii) the organizational structure of Parts 1, 2 and 3 of the Project, including the
functions and responsibilities of the CABA PIU; (iii) the Project procurement and financial
management requirements and procedures; (iv) the ESMF and the RPF; (v) the standard
environmental provisions to be included in the bidding documents for investments to be
carried out under Part I of the Project; (vi) the chart of accounts and internal controls for,
and the roles and responsibilities of CABA PIU and SECISYU under, the Parts of the
Project mentioned herein; and (vii) the Project monitoring indicators.
2. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, terminate or waive
the Operational Manual or any of its provisions. In case of any conflict among the terms of
the Operational Manual and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall
prevail.
C. 
Operation and Maintenance
Upon the selection of any particular investment under Part 1 of the Project, and/or prior to
the initiation of any other investment under said Part of the Project not subject to a selection
process (as the case may be), the Borrower, though the SECISYU, shall, if applicable, enter
into an agreement with the corresponding Selected Service Provider (the Operation and
Maintenance Agreement), under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, which shall
-8-
include, inter alia, the obligation of: (a) the Borrower, through the SECISYU to, upon the
satisfactory completion of the investment (in accordance with the criteria set forth in the
Operational Manual), transfer said investment to the Selected Service Provider for its
operation and maintenance; and (b) the Selected Service Provider to operate and maintain
said investment in accordance with the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual and in
a manner acceptable to the Bank.
D. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that Parts 1, 2 and 3 of the Project are carried out in accordance
with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
E. 
Safeguards
1 .
The Borrower, through: (a) CABA PIU and SECISYU shall implement Part I of the
Project; and (b) CABA PIU shall implement Parts 2 and 3 of the Project, all in accordance
with the Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) and the Resettlement
Policy Framework (RPF).
2. 
Upon the definition of detailed technical designs in respect of each investment (involving
works) under Part I of the Project, and prior to the carrying out of each said works, the
Borrower, through CABA PIU and SECISYU, shall: (a) carry out and/or cause to be carried
out an environmental/social assessment of the pertinent works, and based on the results of
said assessment as determined by the Bank, approve and/or cause to be approved an
environmental/social management plan or social safeguards instrument, acceptable to the
Bank, for each said works (which plan shall be based on the results of the
environmental/social assessment mentioned herein, and the Bank's comments on the
results of said assessment, if any), all in accordance with the provisions of the
Environmental and Social Management Framework; and (b) immediately after said
approval, implement and/or cause to be implemented (as the case may be) the
corresponding environmental/social management plan in accordance with its terms, and in
a manner acceptable to the Bank.
3. 
Without limitation to paragraphs I and 2 of this Section:
(a) 
Upon the definition of detailed technical designs and precise sitting alignments in
respect of each investment (involving works) under Parts 1.1 and 1.2 (ii), (iii) and
(v) of the Project, if it is determined by the Bank that Resettlement will be
involved, the Borrower, through the SECISYU, shall: (i) prior to the carrying out
of each said works, prepare and furnish to the Bank, a resettlement plan, acceptable
to the Bank (which plan shall be consistent with the pertinent provisions of the
Resettlement Policy Framework); and (ii) immediately thereafter, implement said
resettlement plan in accordance with its terms and in a manner acceptable to the
Bank.
-9-
(b) 
The Borrower, through the SECISYU, shall ensure that the relocation of the
households mentioned in Part 1.2 (iv) of the Project shall not be carried out until
the Borrower, through the SECISYU, shall have: (a) carried out the activities
referred to in Part 1.2 (i), (ii) and (iii) of the Project; and (b) prepared a resettlement
plan, acceptable to the Bank (based on the provisions of the RPF) and thereafter
implemented the same in accordance with its terms, and in a manner acceptable to
the Bank.
4. 
The Borrower, through CABA PIU and SECISYU, shall ensure that the terms of reference
for any consultancies related to the technical assistance provided under Parts 1, 2 and 3 of
the Project, shall be acceptable to the Bank following its review thereof and, to that end,
such terms of reference shall duly incorporate the requirement of the Bank's Safeguard
Policies then in force, as applied to the advice conveyed through such technical assistance.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1 .
The Borrower, through CABA PIU, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of Parts 1, 2
and 3 of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the
Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of the period covered by such
report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1 .
The Borrower, through CABA PIU, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower, through
CABA PIU, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later
than 45 days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports
for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through CABA PIU, shall have its Financial Statements audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit
of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later
than six months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
All goods, works, non-consulting services and consulting services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
-10-
the requirements set forth or referred to in the Procurement Regulations and the provisions
of the Procurement Plan.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower, through the CABA PIU, may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in
accordance with the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and
such additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including
the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from
time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures
in each Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) 
(a) 
Goods, 
works,
non-consulting 
services, 
159,575,000 
100%
consulting services, Training,
Operating Costs for Part 1 of
the Project; and
(b) 
land 
acquisition 
and
compensation related to the
implementation 
of 
the 
0
Resettlement 
Policy
Framework for Part 1 of the
Project, 
as 
provided 
in
paragraph B.2 of this Section
(2) 
Goods, 
non-consulting
services, consulting services, 
10,000,000 
100%
Training and Operating Costs
for Parts 2 and 3 of the Project
(3) Front-end Fee 
425,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 
2.03 
of 
this
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
170,000,000
-11-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $34,000,000 may be made for payments made prior to this
date but on or after January 16, 2017, for Eligible Expenditures (but in no case after more
than one year before the date of this Agreement).
2. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.08 of the General Conditions, and upon
written request from the Borrower to the Bank to finance with the proceeds of the Loan the
Eligible Expenditures under Category (1) (b), the Bank may reallocate from Category (1)
(a) and/or (2) to Category (1) (b) an amount of the Loan not to exceed $5,000,000.
3. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2023.
-12-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: 
(a)
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment
Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary,
to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each June 1 and December 1
Beginning June 1, 2023
Through June 1, 2045 
2.17%
On December 1, 2045 
2.35%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as
of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding
on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall
-13-
be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating
to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-14-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"AMBA" means the Buenos Aires Metropolitan Area which includes the Borrower's
territory and the surrounding municipalities within the jurisdiction of PBA (as defined
below), including, inter alia: (i) Almirante Brown; (ii) Avellaneda; (iii) Berazategui; (iv)
Berisso; (v) Brandsen; (vi) Campana; (vii) Cafluelas; (viii) Ensenada; (ix) Escobar; (x)
Esteban Echeverria; (xi) Exaltaci6n de la Cruz; (xii) Ezeiza; (xiii) Florencio Varela; (xiv)
General Rodriguez; (xv) General San Martin; (xvi) General Las Heras; (xvii) Hurlingham;
(xviii) Ituzaing6; (xix) Jos6 C. Paz; (xx) La Matanza; (xxi) La Plata; (xxii) Lanis; (xxiii)
Lomas de Zamora; (xxiv) LujAn; (xxv) Malvinas Argentinas; (xxvi) Marcos Paz; (xxvii)
Merlo; (xxviii) Moreno; (xxix) Mor6n; (xxx) Pilar; (xxxi) Presidente Per6n; (xxxii)
Quilmes; (xxxiii) San Fernando; (xxxiv) San Isidro; (xxxv) San Miguel; (xxxvi) San
Vicente; (xxxvii) Tigre; (xxxviii) Tres de Febrero; (xxxix) Vicente L6pez; and (xl) ZArate.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated
October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
3. 
"Bank Safeguard Policies" means the Bank's operational policies and procedures set forth
in the Bank's Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04, 4.07, 4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12,
4.36 and 4.37, as said manual is published under wvw.WorldBank.org/opmanual.
4. 
"Barrio 31" means the neighborhood located in the Borrower's territory, known as Villas
31 y 31 bis, as defined in Article I of the Borrower's Law 3343 dated December 3, 2009,
duly published on February 9, 2010.
5. 
"Barrio 3 1 Intervention" means Plan de Acci6n Integral para el Barrio 31, the Borrower's
Comprehensive Action Plan 2016-2019 for Barrio 31, referred to in the Borrower's Decree
to Decree No. 363, dated December 15, 2015 and duly published in the Borrower's Official
Gazette on December 16, 2015.
6. 
"CABA PIU" means the unit referred to in Section I.A. 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
7. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
8. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the Borrower's
framework, dated December 2016, published in the Bank's external website on December
13, 2016, and in the Borrower's website on December 14, 2016, which sets forth, inter
alia: (a) the guidelines for carrying out the environmental/social assessments under Part I
of the Project and preparation and implementation of pertinent environmental management
plans; (b) the generic description of the type of environmental/social impacts which may
affect the activities under Parts 1, 2 and 3 of the Project and the actions to mitigate any
negative impacts that may occur as a result of their implementation; (c) the guidelines to
-15-
be followed in connection with the finding of cultural property; (d) the guidelines to be
followed to prevent natural habitat conversion or degradation; (e) the guidelines to be
followed for pest management; (f) the guidelines for public consultation; (g) the procedures
and technical specifications to be followed by eligible contractors in the carrying out of the
works under Part 1 of the Project; and (h) the Resettlement Policy Framework, as said
framework may be updated and/or amended from time to time with the agreement of the
Bank.
9. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
10. 
"Illia Highway" means the highway located in the Borrower's territory known as Autopista
Dr. Arturo Umberto Illia (A V1 Norte) and its connection to the Avenida 9 de Julio.
11. 
"Land Value Capture" means a method of funding infrastructure improvements through
the recovery of all or some of the increase in property value generated by the public
infrastructure investment.
12. 
"MoF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance, or any successor thereto acceptable to
the Bank.
13. 
"Operating Costs" means reasonable incremental recurrent expenditures that would not
have been incurred by the Borrower absent the Project, for Project administration costs
(including office rent), operation and maintenance of office equipment, banking fees, non-
durable goods and salaries of civil servants assigned to carry out administrative
responsibilities under Parts 1, 2 and/or 3 of the Project.
14. 
"Operation and Maintenance Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in
Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
15. 
"Operational Manual" means the Borrower's manual, acceptable to the Bank, and referred
to in Section I.B. 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as said manual may be amended from
time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
16. 
"PBA" means the Province of Buenos Aires.
17. 
"PBA Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement referred to in the Whereas Clause of
this Agreement.
18. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated January
16, 2017 and provided for under Section IV of the Procurement Regulations, as the same
may be updated from time to time in agreement with the Bank.
19. 
"Procurement Regulations" means the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for
Borrowers under Investment Project Financing", dated July 1, 2016.
-16-
20. 
"Resettlement" means the impact of an involuntary taking of land under Part 1 of the
Project, which taking causes affected persons to have their: (i) standard of living adversely
affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural
and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily
or permanently; or (iii) access to productive assets adversely affected, temporarily or
permanently; or (iv) business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely
affected, temporarily or permanently.
21. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF means the Borrower's framework, dated
December 2016, published on the Bank's external website on December 13, 2016 and in
the Borrower's website on December 14, 2016, acceptable to the Bank (included as an
annex to the ESMF), which sets forth, inter alia, the principles and objectives governing
Resettlement preparation and implementation, a description of the applicable legal
framework and the process for preparing and approving resettlement plans under Section
E.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
22. 
"SECISYU" means Secretaria de Integracidn Socialy Urbana, the Borrower's Secretariat
of Social and Urban Integration, established pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 363,
dated December 15, 2015 and duly published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on
December 16, 2015, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
23. 
"Selected Service Provider" means a public or private provider of water supply and
sanitation services, gas and/or electricity services, operating within the territorial
jurisdiction of the Borrower, all of which meet the criteria set forth in the Operational
Manual (as defined below) for operating and maintaining the infrastructure referred to in
Part 1 of the Project.
24. 
"Specific Stages of Project Implementation" means: (i) the first three months after the
Effective Date; and (ii) six months prior to the Closing Date of the Project.
25. 
"Training" means expenditures (other than those for consulting services) incurred by the
Borrower, through CABA PIU, to finance reasonable transportation costs and per diem of
trainees and trainers, training registration fees, training materials, and rental of training
facilities and equipment under Parts 2 and/or 3 of the Project.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
-17-
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually
in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition
of "Commitment Charge" and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.0 1(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01
(a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition
of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and
Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
