OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8713-BA
Loan Agreement
(Public Finances Development Policy Loan)
between
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
, 2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8713-BA
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
-1. 
.
, 2017, entered into
between BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of
providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this
Agreement). The Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (i)
the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are
described in Section I.A of Schedule 
1 to this Agreement; and (ii) the Borrower's
maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework. The Borrower and the
Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of E74,500,000 (seventy-four million
five hundred thousand Euro) as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08
of this Agreement ("Loan").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
in accordance with Section II of Schedule I to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%), of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
not later than sixty days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, however, that the interest payable shall in no event be less than zero
percent (0%) per annum; and provided furthermore that, upon a Conversion of all
-2-
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the
Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance
remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty
days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as
provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; and (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section II of Schedule I to this Agreement.
-3-
2.09. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 of Section II of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.
ARTICLE III -
SUBSIDIARY AGREEMENTS
3.01 
The Borrower shall: (a) make available an amount of forty-four million seven
hundred thousand Euro (E44,700,000) out of the proceeds of the Loan to the
Federation under the Federation Subsidiary Agreement; and (b) make available an
amount of twenty-nine million eight hundred thousand Euro (E29,800,000) out of
the proceeds of the Loan to Republika Srpska under the RS Subsidiary Agreement,
all on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
3.02 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights, and carry out its obligations, under the
Subsidiary Agreements in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Program, and, except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or
waive the Subsidiary Agreements or any provisions thereof.
ARTICLE IV -
PROGRAM
4.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To
this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either
party, exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank for its review and comment, a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request; and
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program
or any action taken under the Program including any action specified in
Section I of Schedule I to this Agreement.
-4-
ARTICLE V -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
5.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely a situation
has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part
of it, will be carried out.
5.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the
event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to
the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI -EFFECTIVENESS; 
TERMINATION
6.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in
carrying out the Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower's
macroeconomic policy framework.
(b) 
The Subsidiary Agreements have been executed with terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.
6.02. 
The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following, namely, that the Subsidiary
Agreements referred to in Section 6.01(b) above have been duly authorized or
ratified by the Borrower and the Federation and RS, as relevant, and are legally
binding upon the Borrower and the Federation and RS, as relevant, in accordance
with their terms.
6.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred eighty (180) days after the date
of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VII -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
7.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Finance and Treasury of Bosnia
and Herzegovina.
7.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance and Treasury
Trg BiH 1
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Facsimile:
(387-33) 202-930
-5-
7.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
AGREED at Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as of the day and year first above written.
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: YYEk0O-/,1-V/~7
Title: 
1 E'
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
uthorized Representative
Name: 7A4/9*A/4- 10e0 
U 2yAtoV 4-
Title:_ __U_7___
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
A. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
1. 
The Council of Ministers and the governments of the Federation and RS have each
adopted the Borrower's 2016 through 2018 public investment program, as
evidenced by corresponding links in all three relevant Ministries of Finance
websites.
2. 
The Council of Ministers and the governments of the Federation and RS have each
adopted a medium term debt strategy (MTDS) to present their respective three year
plans for the evolution of the public debt portfolio, as evidenced by Conclusion
No. 05-07-1-1290-3/16 dated April 27, 2016, issued by the Council of Ministers,
and by documents published on the corresponding official websites.
3. 
The Ministry of Finance of the Federation has introduced reporting requirements
on arrears for budget users in the Federation, designed to record all accumulated
liabilities, as evidenced by Form 7 reporting requirement published in the
Federation's Official Gazette No.4, pages 32-33, dated January 20, 2016.
4. 
RS government has introduced reporting requirements on health sector arrears
designed to set up regular reporting of accumulated liabilities in the health sector
of RS, as evidenced by RS government written Conclusion to its meeting held on
March 10, 2016.
5. 
The Parliament of the Federation and the RS National Assembly have each adopted
changes to the labor legislation (Federation Labor Law published in its Official
Gazette No. 26/16 on April 20, 2016 and RS Labor Law published in its Official
Gazette No. 1/16 on January 12, 2016 to cease the validity of the current collective
bargaining agreements and limit the duration to three years of new collective
agreements, as evidenced by the publication of laws mentioned herein above.
6. 
The Parliament of the Federation and the RS National Assembly have each adopted
changes to the labor legislation (Federation Labor Law published in its Official
Gazette No. 26/16 on April 20, 2016 and RS Labor Law published in its Official
Gazette No. 1/16 on January 12, 2016) to introduce a maximum level of severance
payments, as evidenced by the publication of laws mentioned herein above.
-7-
7. 
The RS National Assembly has adopted amendments to its insolvency legislation
to align it with international best practice, as evidenced by RS Law published in
its Official Gazette No. 16/16 on February 11, 2016; and (b) the Federation
Government has approved proposed amendments to its insolvency legislation
during its Government Session No. 78 held on November 18, 2016, to align it with
international best practice, and sent the Draft Insolvency Law for parliamentary
approval.
8. 
The Council of Ministers has approved the updated rulebook designed to regulate
maximum wholesale price of medications in the Borrower's territory as evidenced
by the press releases of the 8 3 rd Session of the Council of Ministers held on
November 24, 2016 and published in the Official Gazette No 3/17 on January 13,
2017.
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
may specify by notice to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. 
The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal
tranche, from which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds.
The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
Amount of the Loan
Allocations 
Allocated
(expressed in Euro)
(1) 
Single Withdrawal Tranche 
74,313,750
(2) 
Front-end Fee 
186,250
(3) 
Amount due pursuant to Section 
0
2.08(c) of this Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
74,000
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions. No withdrawal shall be made of the
Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is satisfied: (a) with the Program being
carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with the adequacy of the Borrower's
macroeconomic policy framework.
D. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
-8-
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into
an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and
2. 
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan
into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower's
budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
E. 
Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any
time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded
Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an
amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to
the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
F. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is March 31, 2018.
-9-
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning May 15, 2024 
1.92%
through May 15, 2049
On November 15, 2049 
2.08%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
-10-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
-11-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1 .
"Council of Ministers" means the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
2. 
"Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
or grant;
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986)
(the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions
to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item
112 
Alcoholic beverages
121 
Tobacco, un-manufactured,
tobacco refuse
122 
Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)
525 
Radioactive and associated
materials
667 
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones, unworked
or worked
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
-12-
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
agreements to which the Borrower is a party;
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United
Nations; and
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.
3. 
"Federation" means the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a constitutive part
of the Borrower, and includes any successor or successors thereto.
4. 
"Federation Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement entered into between the
Borrower and the Federation pursuant to Section 3.01(a) of this Agreement, as the
same agreement may be amended from time to time with the Bank's prior
approval, and such term includes all schedules supplemental to the Federation
Subsidiary Agreement.
5. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
6. 
"Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and: (a) set forth or
referred to in the letter dated February 9, 2017 from the Borrower to the Bank
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its execution;
as well as, or including, (b) the actions set forth in Section I of Schedule I to this
Agreement.
7. 
"Republika Srpska" or "RS" means Republika Srpska, a constitutive part of the
Borrower, and includes any successor or successors thereto within RS
8. 
"RS Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement entered into between the
Borrower and RS pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement, as the same
agreement may be amended from time to time with the Bank's prior approval, and
such term includes all schedules supplemental to the RS Subsidiary Agreement.
-13-
9. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of Schedule I to this Agreement.
10. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means either the Federation Subsidiary Agreement or the
RS Subsidiary Agreement, as such agreement may be amended from time to time
with the Bank's prior approval, and such term includes all schedules supplemental
to the Subsidiary Agreement, and "Subsidiary Agreements" means the Federation
Subsidiary Agreement and the RS Subsidiary Agreement collectively.
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.
3. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
accordingly.
4. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan
amount at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement
(the "Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective
dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan
Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-
annually in arrears on each Payment Date."
5. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally) and 5.09 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the subsequent
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.
6. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
-14-
7. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above)
is modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records."
8. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above)
is modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."
9. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above.
10. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the remaining paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified
in the Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.0 1(b)."
11. 
Renumbered paragraph 37 (originally paragraph 36) of the Appendix ("Eligible
Expenditure") is modified to read as follows:
"37. 
"Eligible Expenditure" means any use to which the Loan is put in
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
pursuant to the Loan Agreement."
12. 
Renumbered paragraph 44 (originally paragraph 43) of the Appendix ("Financial
Statements") is deleted in its entirety.
13. 
In paragraph 48 of the Appendix, the definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by
replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
-15-
14. 
In paragraph 67 of the Appendix, the definition of the term "Loan Payment" is
modified to read as follows:
"67. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties
to the Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions,
including (but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance,
interest, the Front-end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default
Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a
Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread
Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount
payable by the Borrower."
15. 
In paragraph 72 of the Appendix, the definition of "Payment Date" is modified by
deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and Commitment Charge are" after
the word "interest".
16. 
The defined term "Project" in paragraph 75 of the Appendix is modified to read
"Program" and its definition is modified to read as follows (and all references to
"Project" throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to
"Program"):
"75. 
"Program" means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement
in support of which the Loan is made."
