OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8757-IN
Loan Agreement
(Jharkhand Opportunities for Harnessing Rural Growth Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
:fU 
.oy 
,2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8757-IN
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
MM 
, 2017, between INDIA ("Borrower") and
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT
("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million Dollars
($100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, however, that the interest payable shall in no event be less than zero
percent (0%) per annum; and provided furthermore that, upon a Conversion of all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the
Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance
remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty
-2-
days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as
provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are December 15, and June 15, in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; and (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.09. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure
Limit (as said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of
this Section), the Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of
-3-
one half of one percent (0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess
Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for
each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if any)
shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set
forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during
which the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit,
the product of: (A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the
ratio of all (or, if the Bank so determines, a portion) of the Loan
to the aggregate amount of all (or the equivalent portions) of the
loans made by the Bank to the Borrower, the Guarantor and to
other borrowers guaranteed by the Guarantor that are also subject
to an exposure surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably
determined from time to time by the Bank
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the
Bank's financial exposure to the Guarantor which, if exceeded,
would subject the Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined
from time to time by the Bank
(iii) 
Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total
financial exposure to the Guarantor, as reasonably determined by
the Bank.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and the Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
-4-
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that the
JSLPS' Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived
so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Project Implementing
Entity to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is any of the following officials, acting severally:
the Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary,
or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of
Finance of the Borrower.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Secretary
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance,
Government of India
North Block
New Delhi 110001, India
Facsimile:
91-11-23092883
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at 
/ , India, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: S"-fE 
kA-f- 
RAe,
Title: 
/Pf
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
-A athoized Representative
Name: C"A"g 
%fd'AL14
Title: Ac-r#J4 6PVIW7
W,en
1e/J/
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to enhance and diversify household income in select
farm and non-farm sectors for Targeted Beneficiaries in the Project Areas.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Component 1: Diversified and Resilient Production and Value Addition
(a) 
Rural Producer Collectives: (i) provision of PG/PO Sub-grants for Producer
Groups' (PGs) formation and capacity building; (ii) development of Community
Service Providers who will form and build capacity of the PGs, provide grassroots
level extension services, facilitate linkages with markets and financial institutions,
and assist in data management; and (iii) capacity building of project staff, PGs and
the Producer Organization (PO).
(b) 
High-Value Agriculture Development: (i) facilitation of participatory planning for
high value agriculture crop selection and production by farmers; (ii) provision of
PG/PO Sub-grants to assist PGs' input costs of the high-value agriculture crop
cultivation; (iii) provision of PG/PO Sub-grants to PGs for demonstration of high
value agriculture crop cultivation; (iv) capacity building and provision of technical
support to farmers; (v) provision ofPG/PO Sub-grants to PGs for the establishment
of the Village Resource Centers to provide need-based services and products to
farmers; (vi) provision of PG/PO Sub-grants to POs for the establishment of the
Rural Business Hubs to provide need-based facilities and services, enabling
higher-order value addition; (vii) facilitation of partnerships among JSLPS,
technical support agencies and POs for technical and training support; and (viii)
provision of Innovation Marketplace Sub-grants for the Innovative Pilots.
(c) 
Livestock Development: (i) provision of PG/PO Sub-grants to support PGs'
procurement of improved stock for establishment of pig and goat breeding villages;
(ii) provision of PG/PO Sub-grants to PGs for their demonstration units on
livestock housing and improved breeds; (iii) provision of PG/PO Sub-grants to
PGs for financing input and service costs of livestock rearing; (iv) facilitation of
establishment of livestock service centers that support access to inputs, services
and market through aggregation; (v) capacity building and provision of technical
support to livestock producers; and (vi) facilitation of partnerships with technical
support agencies for training and implementation support.
-7-
(d) 
Fishery Development: 
(i) provision of PG/PO Sub-grants 
to PGs for
demonstrations and pilots on improved technologies; (ii) provision of PG/PO Sub-
grants to PGs for financing of pond improvements, equipment and input costs; (iii)
provision of PG/PO Sub-grants to POs for establishment and operation of the Rural
Business Hubs for primary and advanced harvesting and marketing; (iv) capacity
building and provision of technical support to fish farmers; (v) augmentation of
state hatchery infrastructure; (vi) studies on governance and policy reforms; and
(vii) development and deployment of the ICT-applications for communication,
extension and marketing.
(e) 
NTFP Development: (i) value chain studies on selected NTFPs; (ii) provision of
PG/PO Sub-grants to PGs for production inputs; (iii) provision of PG/PO Sub-
grants to POs for establishment and operation of Rural Business Hubs for primary
and advanced processing; (iv) provision of PG/PO Sub-grants to POs for
establishment and operation of centers for quality control of NTFPs; (v) provision
of Training and capacity building of producers; and (vi) provision of PG/PO Sub-
grants to PGs for pilot interventions on artisanal products.
(f) 
Irrigation System Development: 
(i) provision of technical assistance for
preparation of community irrigation plans; (ii) provision of PG/PO Sub-grants to
PGs for creation of micro-scale irrigation infrastructure and demonstration of
efficient on-farm water management technologies and practices; (iii) formation
and strengthening of Water User Groups for the planning, development and
oversight of irrigation systems; and (iv) support to micro-scale irrigation operators
on operation, repair and maintenance of irrigation equipment.
Component 2: Promoting Market Access, Skill Develovment and Pro-Poor Finance
(a) 
Market Access and Private Sector Participation: (i) support to the product-based
market assessment studies; (ii) development of technology-based market
information platform and related training for potential subscribers; (iii) facilitation
of partnerships with select private sector agencies for implementing turnkey
projects on linking markets with producers; (iv) capacity building of community
service professionals as market champions to promote linkages of PGs and POs
with markets; and (v) establishment of the Farmer Producer Organization
Incubation and Support Cell.
(b) 
Skill Development and Entrepreneurship in Focus Value Chains: (i) technical
evaluations of focus value chains to identify skill gaps and opportunities for skills
up-gradation; (ii) development of curricula for skill training; (iii) development of
training delivery systems and roster of master trainers; (iv) development oftraining
programs for community service professionals and entrepreneurs in the areas of
high value agriculture, livestock, fisheries, NTFP and entrepreneurship; (v)
-8-
provision of Training for entrepreneurs; and (vi) facilitation of accreditation to
training providers and certification of trainees.
(c) 
Pro-poor Agricultural Finance Systems: (i) Support to demand-and supply-side-
assessments and studies; (ii) financial education campaign for producers; (iii)
provision of technical assistance and capacity building of formal financial
institutions to enable service delivery; (iv) support to develop demand-driven
credit and insurance products; (v) facilitation for formal financial institutions to
deliver financial services to PGs and POs; and (vi) provision of PG/PO Sub-grants
for POs' formation and capacity building.
Component 3: Project and Knowledge Management
(a) 
Project Management: Support for the Project implementation, including operating
costs of the SMMU, DMMUs, and BMMUs, within the JSLPS.
(b) 
Knowledge Management: (i) support to project monitoring, leaming, and
evaluation systems; and (ii) development of policy papers and organizing
knowledge-exchange seminars.
-9-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
On-lending
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds
of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity in accordance with the
Borrower's standard arrangements for development assistance to the State of India.
2. 
Notwithstanding paragraph I above, in the event that any provision of this
Agreement, including the instructions that the Bank shall have specified by notice
to the Borrower pursuant to Section IV.A.1 of this Schedule, were to be found
inconsistent with the Borrower's standard arrangements for development
assistance to the State of India, the provision of this Agreement and related
instructions shall govern.
3. 
The Borrower shall at all times protect its own interests and the interests of the
Bank to accomplish the purpose of the Loan.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Sub-grants
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to ensure that the Sub-
grants are made exclusively in accordance with the eligibility criteria and
procedures detailed in the PIP and the Operational Manuals.
D. 
Safeguards
I. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to ensure that its
government departments and agencies implementing the Project, including JSLPS,
SMMU, DMMUs, BMMUs, WUGs and Sub-grant Recipients:
(a) 
carry out the Project in accordance in accordance with: (i) the EMF and
SMF/TDF; and (ii) the EMP(s) and/or the TDP(s) to be prepared, in
accordance with the objectives, policies, procedures, time schedules and
other provisions set forth in the EMF, SMF/TDF (the EMF, SMF/TDF,
PMP, EMP(s) and TDP(s), collectively referred to as the "Safeguards
-10-
Documents"), in each case in a manner and in substance satisfactory to the
Bank; and
(b) 
refrain from taking any action which would prevent or interfere with the
implementation of the Safeguards Documents, including any amendment,
suspension, waiver, and/or voidance of any provision of the Safeguards
Documents, whether in whole or in part, without the prior written
concurrence of the Bank.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1 .
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to monitor and evaluate
the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the
indicators agreed with the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one
calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45)
days after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1I 
The Borrower shall maintain and cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the Bank not later
than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited
financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have, and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to have
the Project's Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Project's Financial
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower and the Project
Implementing Entity, commencing with the fiscal year in which the first
withdrawal was made under the Loan. The audited Financial Statements for each
such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than nine (9) months after the
end of such period.
-11-
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and m of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, 1H, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1 .
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) Limited International
Bidding; (b) National Competitive Bidding procedures, subject to the additional
provisions agreed upon from time to time between the Borrower and the Bank and
set forth in the Procurement Plan; (c) Shopping; (d) Procurement under Framework
Agreements in accordance with procedures which have been found acceptable to
the Bank; (e) Direct Contracting; (f) Force Account; (g) Procurement from UN
Agency; and (h) Community Participation procedures which have been found
acceptable to the Bank.
-12-
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; 
(c) Least Cost Selection; 
(d) Selection based on Consultants'
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Procedures set
forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of
Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"Disbursement Guidelines for Investment Project Financing" dated February
2017, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
-13-
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) 
financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, 
non- 
53,630,000 
70%
consulting 
services,
consultants' 
services,
Training 
and 
Operating
Costs under the Project
(2) Sub-grants 
70%
(a) PG/PO Sub-grants 
44,620,000
(b) Innovation 
1,500,000
Marketplace 
Sub-
grants 
_
(3) Front-end Fee 
250,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(4) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest 
Rate 
Collar 
Section 
2.08(c) of this
premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
100,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000 may be
made for payments made prior to this date but on or after August 1, 2016,
for Eligible Expenditures under Category (1);
(b) 
for PG/PO Sub-grants under Category (2)(a), unless and until the Project
Implementing Entity approves the PG/PO Sub-grants Operational Manual,
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, or
-14-
(c) 
for Innovation Marketplace Sub-Grants under Category (2)(b), unless and
until the 
Project 
Implementing Entity approves 
the Innovation
Marketplace Sub-grants Operational Manual, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2023.
-15-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each December 15 and June 15
Beginning on June 15, 2023, 
4.17%
through June 15, 2034
On December 15, 2034 
4.09%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
-16-
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
-17-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" 
means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as
of July 1, 2016.
2. 
"Bank's Safeguards Policies" means the Bank's operational policies and
procedures set forth in the World Bank's Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01,
4.09, 
4.10 
and 
7.50 
as 
said 
manual 
is 
published 
under
www.WoiIdBank.ormLopmanual.
3. 
"Block" means the administrative sub-division of the Borrower's territories.
4. 
"BMMU" means the Block Mission Management Unit, established and to be
maintained until the completion of the Project, to assist the Project Implementing
Entity in carrying out the Project.
5. 
"Business Plan" means a plan prepared by a PO in accordance with the procedures
and formats prescribed in the PG/PO Sub-grants Operational Manual and approved
by the JSLPS.
6. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
7. 
"Community Plan" means the plan prepared by the PGs in accordance with the
procedures and formats prescribed in the PG/PO Sub-grants Operational Manual
and approved by the JSLPS.
8. 
"Community Service Providers" or "CSP" means the individuals identified,
trained and mandated to form and support the Producer Groups, provide grassroots
level extension services, facilitate linkages with markets and financial institutions,
and assist in data management.
9. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
10. 
"Displaced Person" means a person who, on account of the execution of an activity
under the Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social
impacts caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or
loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources
or means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location;
or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected
areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person; "Displaced
Persons" means all such persons.
11. 
"DMMU" means each District Mission Management Unit, established and to be
maintained until completion of the Project, whose responsibilities shall include:
(a) obtaining all Project-related administrative, financial and technical approvals
at the district level; (b) the management of the execution of project activities and
the procurement of goods and services; (c) quality assurance; and (d) working
closely with communities to achieve the Project's development objectives.
12. 
"EMF" means the environmental management framework of the Project, dated
February 28, 2017, acceptable to the Bank, as amended from time to time,
governing all environmental aspects of the Project implementation, including
screening, appraisal, preparation of Environment Management Plans, and the Pest
Management Plan, as such plans may be amended from time to time with the prior
written concurrence of the Bank.
13. 
"Environmental Management Plan" or "EMP" means each of the environmental
management plans prepared or to be prepared pursuant to Section LD of the
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and Section I.F of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement, in accordance with the provisions of the EMF, in each case setting out
mitigation, enhancement, monitoring and institutional measures, including
capacity building through training, required to: (i) eliminate adverse environmental
impacts of activities to be implemented under the Project; (ii) offset them, or
reduce them to acceptable levels; and (iii) enhance any positive impacts thereof,
as such plans may be revised/updated, from time to time, with the prior written
agreement of the Bank.
14. 
"Farmer Producer Organization Incubation and Support Cell" means a cell
established within the JSLPS for (a) facilitation of capacity building of POs; (b)
preparation of bankable business plans for the POs; (c) provision of advisory to
entrepreneurs in establishing enterprises (proof of concept and scale-up models);
(d) facilitation of private sector investment; (e) facilitation to formalize private
sector partnerships; (f) dissemination of market information and intelligence; (g)
establishment of market linkages; and (h) management of information to ensure
coordination with the stakeholders.
15. 
"Financial Management Manual" or "FM Manual" means the manual adopted by
JSLPS, describing financial management requirements applicable to the Project,
including inter-alia: (i) accounting principles, practices, methods and procedures;
-19-
(ii) budgeting and planning; (iii) fund flow mechanism, internal control and
financing reporting; and (iv) audit arrangements; as such manual may be amended
from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
16. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
17. 
"ICT" means the information, communication and technology.
18. 
"Innovation Marketplace" means a competitive event organized by the JSLPS for
the purpose of identifying innovations that can be piloted and/or further scaled up
through the Project, in accordance with the eligibility criteria, evaluation criteria
and procedures detailed in the Innovation Marketplace Sub-grants Operational
Manual.
19. 
"Innovation Marketplace Sub-grant" means a grant under Component 1(b)(viii) of
the Project made by JSLPS to an entity selected through the Innovation
Marketplace in accordance with the eligibility criteria and procedures in the
Innovation Marketplace Sub-grants Operational Manual.
20. 
"Innovation Marketplace Sub-grant Agreement" means an agreement to be entered
into between the Project Implementing Entity and a recipient of the Innovation
Marketplace Sub-grants, which shall include the terms and conditions set forth in
the Innovation Marketplace Sub-grants Operational Manual, as may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes any schedule or addendum to the
Innovation Marketplace Sub-grant Agreement.
21. 
"Innovation Marketplace Sub-grants Operational Manual" means the operational
manual referred to in Section IV.B.1(c) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
acceptable to the Bank, setting forth the institutional arrangements, procedures and
criteria for selection, appraisal and implementation of the Innovation Marketplace
Sub-grants, and as may be amended from time to time in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank.
22. 
"Innovative Pilots" means interventions on production, value-addition, marketing
in the areas of high value agriculture, livestock, fisheries, NTFP, irrigation that are
carried out in selected Blocks for the purpose of testing and leaming before being
scaled up to other Blocks.
23. 
"International Waterways" means waterways that are defined to be international
waterways for the purpose of the Bank's Safeguard Policies on Projects on
International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50), as revised from time to time.
-20-
24. 
"JSLPS" means the Jharkhand State Livelihood Promotion Society established by
the Rural Development Department of the Government of Jharkhand and
registered under the Society Registration Act, 1860, as amended to date, as
operating according to its Memorandum of Association and by-laws which are
included in the PIP (as this term is hereinafter defined).
25. 
"JSLPS' Legislation" means the Memorandum of Association of JSLPS, dated
December 22, 2009 and any of its by-laws.
26. 
"NTFP" means the non-timber forest produce.
27. 
"Operating Costs" means reasonable and necessary expenditures incurred by the
JSLPS including costs of operation, rent and maintenance of offices,
communication costs, salaries of contractual staff, salaries of government staff on
deputation to the Project, the costs of training staff, and travel allowances of
Project staff incurred with respect to Project implementation, coordination, and
monitoring but excluding the salaries of civil servants of the Borrower.
28. 
"Operational Manuals" means, collectively, the PG/PO Sub-grants Operational
Manual and the Innovation Marketplace Sub-grants Operational Manual.
29. 
"Pest Management Plan" and the acronym "PMP" mean the pest management plan
for the Project, included in the EMF.
30. 
"PG/PO Sub-grant" means a grant made to a PG or PO under Components
I1(a)(iv), I1(b)(ii), (iv) and (v), I1(c)(i), (ii) and (iii), I (d)(i) and (ii), 1(e)(ii), (iii), (iv)
and (vi), I (f)(ii) and (iii) and 3(b)(iii) in accordance with the eligibility criteria and
procedures in the PG/PO Sub-grant Operational Manual.
31. 
"PG/PO Sub-grants Operational Manual" means the operational manual referred
to in Section IV.B. 1(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and acceptable to the
Bank, setting forth institutional arrangements, procedures and criteria for selection,
appraisal and implementation of PG/PO Sub-grants, and as may be amended from
time to time in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
32. 
"PIP" means the Project Implementation Plan, dated April 19, 2017, prepared by
the Project Implementing Entity and acceptable to the Bank, containing procedures
for the carrying out of the Project and including, inter alia, details and procedures
for the Project's grievance redress mechanism, and agreed Project monitoring
indicators, and as may be amended from time to time in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank.
-21-
33. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
34. 
"Procurement Manual" means the manual adopted by JSLPS, acceptable to the
Bank, describing inter-alia: (i) methods of procurement for goods, non-consulting
services, and works; (ii) procurement of services and selection of consultants, e-
procurement; and (iii) guidelines for community based procurement, as such
manual may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
35. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
February 16, 2017 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines
and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
36. 
"Producer Group" and the acronym "PG" mean a group of individuals organized
around a common economic activity, formed for purposes of enhancing sustainable
agricultural production and access to services and markets; and "PGs" means more
than one such Producer Group.
37. 
"Producer Organization" and the acronym "PO" mean a group of individuals
organized around a common economic activity, a cooperative thereof and/or a
registered company operating under the laws of the Borrower and the Project
Implementing Entity, formed or established for purposes of enhancing agri, agri-
allied, and non-farm business production and access to services and markets; and
"POs" means more than one such Producer Organization.
38. 
"Production Models" means a scalable approach to strengthening the production
systems in the farm and non-farm sectors.
39. 
"Project Areas" means the Blocks identified by JSLPS in consultation with the
Bank for the purpose of the Project implementation, which are listed in the PIP.
40. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means the State of Jharkhand.
41. 
"Rural Business Hubs" means the facilities established by POs to provide need-
based facilities and services to a group of villages to enable value addition.
42. 
"Rural 
Producer Collectives" means the Producer Groups and Producer
Organizations.
43. 
"Safeguards Documents" means, collectively, the EMF, EMP(s), PMP, SMF/TDF
and TDPs.
-22-
44. 
"SMF/TDF" means the social management framework and tribal development
framework of the Project, dated February 28, 2017, which set forth the principles
and procedures, including mitigation and adaptive measures to offset, reduce to
acceptable levels, or eliminate, any adverse social impact under the Project,
including measures designed to ensure meaningful consultation with, and informed
participation of, Tribal Groups and their communities in the design and
implementation of the Project activities, as well as their participation in the
envisioned culturally appropriate and socially inclusive benefits thereof; as such
plans may be amended from time to time with the prior written concurrence of the
Bank.
45. 
"SMMU" means the State Mission Management Unit, established and to be
maintained until the completion of the Project within the JSLPS, to assist the
Project Implementing Entity in carrying out the Project.
46. 
"Sub-grant" means a PG/PO Sub-grant or an Innovation Marketplace Sub-grant,
each in accordance with the eligibility criteria and procedures set forth in the
Operational Manuals.
47. 
"Sub-grant Recipient" means the recipient of the PG/PO Sub-grant or the
Innovation Marketplace Sub-grant, in each case which has met the eligibility
requirements set out in the Operational Manuals.
48. 
"TDP" means each tribal people's development plan to be prepared pursuant to
Section I.D of the Schedule 2 to this Agreement and Sections I.F of the Schedule
to the Project Agreement and in accordance with the provisions of the TDF/SMF,
which set forth the principles and procedures designed to ensure meaningful
consultation with, and informed participation of, Tribal Groups and their
communities in the design and implementation of the Project activities, as well as
their participation in the envisioned culturally appropriate and socially inclusive
benefits thereof, as such plans may be amended from time to time with the prior
concurrence of the Bank.
49. 
"Targeted Beneficiaries" means the households identified for inclusion in the
Project as beneficiaries, as per the eligibility criteria detailed in the PIP and in the
Operational Manual on Producer Groups and Producer Organizations.
50. 
"Training" means reasonable costs of trainings, seminars, workshops, conferences,
study tours, conducted in the territory of the Borrower and/or overseas, including:
(a) fees of training institutions and courses; (b) domestic and international travel
costs, lodging costs, and subsistence/per diem allowances for both trainers and
trainees; (c) rental of training facilities; and (d) preparation, purchase or
-23-
reproduction of training materials; but excluding salaries and allowance of the
Borrower's and the Project Implementing Entity's civil servants or their other
regular staff
51. 
"Tribal Groups" means any distinct, vulnerable, social and cultural group within
the territory of the Project Implementing Entity, that: (i) self-identifies as such and
claims, and is recognized by others as, having a distinguishable cultural identity;
(ii) has collective attachment to geographically distinct habits or ancestral
territories in the Project area, and to the natural resources in these habitat and
territories; (iii) has customary cultural, economic, social and political institutions
that are separate from those of the dominant society and culture; and (iv) has an
indigenous language, often different from the official language of the Borrower
and/or the Project Implementing Entity.
52. 
"Value Chain Initiative" means the activity carried out by a PG or PO for the
development of agricultural value chains under the Project.
53. 
"Village Resource Centers" means the Gram Panchayat Resource Centers
established by the PG or PO for a group of villages to provide need-based inputs
and services to producers.
54. 
"Water User Group" and its acronym "WUG" mean a group of individuals
organized around a common irrigation infrastructure, formed for purposes of
enhancing irrigation access and efficiency.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
-24-
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. 
The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.) 1(b)."
