OFFICIAL 
No 0 61
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8785-CL
Loan Agreement
(Strengthening of State Universities in Chile Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
______IA____4___t 
_,2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
No 0 6 
1 8
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between the REPUBLIC OF CHILE
("Borrower") 
and 
the 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II- LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of fifty million one hundred twenty-
six thousand Dollars ($50,126,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower's Representative for purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is the Minister of
Education.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower, through MINEDUC (and within MINEDUC through DIVESUP), shall carry out
the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
No 0 6 
18
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the
Signature Date.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower's Representative is its
Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower's address is:
Ministry of Finance
Teatinos 120
Santiago, Chile
5.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank's Electronic address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
2
No0 6 
18
AGREED at 
Pfl, 
i:TlA,.- , on behalf of the Bank, and at
Sad;xo 
,. 
,~ on behalf of the Borrower.
E PR 
PUBLI 
CHILE 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
D ECTO 
NISTP 
.
iL/)
m 
By
RIO DE 
d Representative 
Authorized Re resetative
Name: JL 
Name: 
/Lie-O 
7dP0 62Dj Z-
Title: 4iAi5 
0 
(W 
Title: 
EC-T-_e.C 
2-
Date: 
2X11'+ 
Date: 
(9T 
roG o_L'/_ _39
Counter pned on behalf of the 
Countersigned 
behalf of the
T 
the Republic of Chile 
Cont 
G 
eral of the Repub 
of Chile
By 
By
e 
esentative 
epresentative
Name 
Name: 
A
2  
tii) 
Title: 
c-4 
. C e CQ21- 
Title: C-M,
Date 
-7, 
Date
3
No 0 6 
1
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to improve quality and equity within State Universities
and to strengthen their institutional capacity to address regional and national development
challenges.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Technical Assistance for Strengthening the Borrower's State Universities Sector
Provision of technical assistance, training and software development to improve the
Borrower's State Universities Sector, including:
(a) 
Improvement of the Borrower information systems at central government and
State Universities level, through, inter alia: (i) design of a Central Information System; (ii)
installation of new information systems and/or improvement of existing ones; (iii)
improvement of coordination mechanisms of existing information systems among State
Universities and/or with MINEDUC; (iv) development of standardized monitoring reports
that aggregate data at the university, regional and national levels; and (v) provision of
training for the better use of information systems and drafting of periodic monitoring
reports;
(b) 
Enhancement of the knowledge base on education and regional/national
development linkages through, inter alia: (i) the carrying out of the Pertinence Diagnostic;
(ii) carrying out of Regional Diagnostics; (iii) carrying out of Academic Offering Reports;
and (iv) provision of technical assistance to improve the institutional capacity of State
Universities to update the curricula of existing programs according to regional needs;
(c) 
Capacity building for the development of ISDPs, through inter alia: (i)
establishment of technical committees in each State University to prepare said ISDP; (ii)
carrying out of assessments on the expected financial implications of these plans in the
short, medium, and long-term budget allocation of expected resources; (iii) provision of
training and capacity building to State Universities' staff for the development of long-term
objectives, activities, and indicators; and (iv) improvement of coordination activities
among State Universities, MINEDUC and key stakeholders;
(d) 
Strengthening of the institutional management capacity of State Universities
through, inter alia: (i) carrying out of diagnostic reports on the management and planning
capacity of State Universities; (ii) carrying out capacity building activities for managers
and relevant administrators, such as training, workshops, and technical assistance; and (iii)
development of online management tools for monitoring progress in management,
administration and planning;
(e) 
Development of Early-Warning Systems to profile/score students according to
their probability of dropping out and/or fall behind in academic progression through, inter
alia: (i) data collection, analysis and reporting tools aimed at identifying students at risk of
future dropout, of low academic readiness and in vulnerable groups; and (ii) development
4
of coordination mechanisms to connect students at risk with available institutional
counseling and tutoring services;
(f) 
Carrying out of impact evaluations on selected interventions, including Career
Services and Remedial Programs; and
(g) 
Strengthening of quality assurance mechanisms, through the provision of technical
assistance and training to State Universities' internal quality assurance units.
Part 2: Support to the Establishment of Networks in State Universities
Financing of payments under the EEPs in support of State Universities for:
(a) 
The establishment of Structural Networks in new identified priority areas and the
improvement of coordination and monitoring activities in existing Structural Networks.
(b) 
The establishment of Thematic Networks.
Part 3: Support to the Implementation of Institutional Strengthening Development Plans
Financing of payments under the EEPs in support of State Universities to diagnose, develop
and implement each ISDP, including:
(a) 
Provision of support to improve school-university-job transition in State
Universities including, inter alia: (i) improve academic readiness through Remedial
Programs, information provision on higher education academic and job offers, and
vocational counseling for late-secondary and early-higher-education students; (ii) decrease
drop-out rates and improve the career progression and graduation; (iii) improve the
employability of women; (iv) foster a better university-to-job transition by implementing,
inter alia, apprenticeship programs, graduate tracking systems, and career counseling
programs with a focus on vulnerable and underrepresented segments of the population; and
(v) improve teaching training and update the curricula to deliver programs that are more
responsive to development priority sectors and local demand.
(b) 
Provision of support to strengthen research and innovation capacity at State
Universities including, inter alia. (i) improvement of State Universities' human capital for
research and innovation; (ii) acquisition of research equipment and goods and provision of
services; (iii) development of partnerships with the private sector, regional governments,
foreign institutions and research centers; and (iv) improvement of the capacity of State
Universities to disseminate research outputs and prepare and submit research publications
and patents applications.
(c) 
Provision of support to the institutional management and operations of State
Universities to prepare and implement ISDPs and plans based on the Regional Diagnostics,
including: (i) collection, use and dissemination of university data; (ii) strengthening the
planning, financial and procurement management capacity; and (iii) reviewing of academic
management and programs and permanent quality assurance mechanisms.
5
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements.
1. 
The Borrower, through MINEDUC, shall operate and maintain within DIVESUP at all
times during the implementation of the Project, staff in adequate numbers and with
appropriate experience and qualifications, all satisfactory to the Bank, as further
detailed in the Project Operational Manual, for purposes of assisting the MINEDUC in
the overall coordination and implementation of the Project, including fiduciary
responsibilities.
2. The Borrower, through MINEDUC, shall carry out the Project in accordance with a
manual ("Project Operational Manual"), satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include
the rules, methods, guidelines, standard documents and procedures for the carrying out
of the Project, including the following: (a) the detailed description of the Project
activities and the institutional arrangements of the Project; (b) the description of DLIs
and the criteria, detailed rules and procedures for DLIs implementation and
monitoring; (c) the DLI Verification Protocols; (d) the Project accounting, auditing,
reporting, financial, procurement and disbursement procedures; (e) the monitoring
indicators for the Project; (f) the detailed Project costs and financing; (g) the model of
the Inter-institutional Agreements; and (h) the IPPF. In the event that any provision of
the Project Operational Manual shall conflict with this Agreement, the terms of this
Agreement shall prevail.
3. 
In order to facilitate the execution of the Project, and upon selection of a State
University, the Borrower, through MINEDUC, shall enter into an agreement with said
State University ("Inter-Institutional Agreement"), under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia, MINEDUC and the respective
State University's responsibilities under the Project.
B. 
Safeguards.
1. 
The Borrower, through MINEDUC, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
provisions of the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework.
2. The Borrower, through MINEDUC, shall ensure that the terms of reference for any
consultancy in respect of any Project activity shall be satisfactory to the Bank
following its review thereof and, to that end, such terms of reference shall duly
incorporate the requirements of the applicable Bank Safeguards Policies, as applied to
the advice conveyed through such technical assistance.
6
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than two (2) months
after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar semester.
B. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 5.08(b) of the General Conditions and
Section II.A. of this Schedule, the Borrower, through MINEDUC, shall after the third year
of Effective Date:
1. 
carry out a mid-term review with the Bank on the overall progress in the execution of
the Project and on the achievement of the Project objectives, including a review of the
existing DLIs to determine if any adjustment or replacement of any DLI is needed; and
2. thereafter make the required modifications, all in a manner acceptable to the Bank and
with the approval of MINEDUC and the Borrower's Ministry of Finance as the case
may be.
Section III. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in
accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower, through
MINEDUC, may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible Expenditures;
and (b) pay: (i) the Front-end Fee; and (ii) each Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar
premium as applicable; in the amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the percentage set
forth against each Category of the following table:
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Eligible Expenditure 
Up to 100% subject to the
Programs under Parts 2 
50,000,685 
provisions of Part B of this
and 3 of the Project 
Section
(2) Front-end Fee 
125,315 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07(b) of the
General Conditions
(3) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar 
Section 4.05(c) of the General
premium 
Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
50,126,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made:
7
o06 
18
(a) 
for payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000 may be made for payments made
twelve (12) months prior to this date, for Eligible Expenditures provided that the
Borrower, through MINEDUC, has furnished evidence, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, that the DLIs I and 2 (as set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement) have been satisfactorily met, all in accordance with the applicable
provisions of this Agreement and as further elaborated in the Project Operational
Manual and in the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter;
(b) 
for payments made under Category (1) unless: (i) the Borrower, through
MINEDUC, has furnished evidence, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank, of EEPs incurred, as presented in the corresponding EEPs Spending Report;
and (ii) the Bank has determined, on the basis of the evidence furnished by the
Borrower, through MINEDUC, as set forth in the Verification Protocols, that the
DLIs have been satisfactorily achieved, as further elaborated in the Project
Operational Manual and in the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter.
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs B.1(b) of this Section, if the Bank is not
satisfied that a DLI under Category (1) has been achieved, or partially achieved, the Bank
may at any time, and by notice to the Borrower, through MINEDUC, decide, in its sole
discretion, to:
(a) 
In respect of Scalable DLIs:
(i) 
authorize the withdrawal of a reduced amount of the unwithdrawn
proceeds of the Loan allocated to the Scalable DLI which, in the opinion
of the Bank, corresponds to the degree of achievement of said Scalable
DLI calculated as set forth in the Verification Protocols;
(ii) 
authorize that the unwithdrawn amount corresponding to the portion of the
allocated amount not disbursed due to partial achievement of any Scalable
DLI be carried forward to the immediately subsequent withdrawal,
pending further achievement of the respective Scalable DLI; or
(iii) 
cancel all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said
Scalable DLI.
(b) 
In respect of any DLI which is not a Scalable DLI:
(i) 
withhold the unwithdrawn proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said DLI
until the Bank is satisfied that said DLI has been fully achieved; or
(ii) 
(A) at the Borrower's request, through MINEDUC, and providing there is
a justification acceptable to the Bank, reallocate all or a portion of the
proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said DLI to any other DLI; (B)
adjust or replace said DLI for another DLI; or (C) cancel all or a portion
of the proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said DLI.
8
No 0 6 
18
3. 
The Closing Date is December 30, 2022.
Section IV. 
Other Undertakings
The Borrower, through MINEDUC, shall submit to the Bank, for prior review and approval, the
Terms of Reference for the activities to be carried out under Part I (a) (i), (e) and (f) of the Project.
9
No0 
6 
18
SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date ("Installment Share").
Level Principal Repayments
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
On each June 15 and December 15
Beginning June 15, 2027
through December 15, 2028 
25%
10
No06 
18
SCHEDULE4
Disbursement-Linked Indicators, by expected calendar year of completion'
Objectives 
2018 
2019 
2020 
2021 
2022
DLI 1 
DLI 5 
DLI 9 
DLI 13
SPC has been established and is 
18 ISDPs are approved 
At least 5% 
At least 12 State
operational as set forth in the 
by the SPC and adopted 
increase in the 
Universities
Verification Protocols 
by each State University 
share of full- 
accomplish 70%
as set forth in the 
time faculty 
of the
Verification Protocols 
with Ph.Ds in 
corresponding
State 
ISDP annual
Universities as 
targets
set forth in the
Verification
Protocols
(Scalable) 
(Scalable) 
(Scalable)
(Value: US$5.0 M) 
(Value: US$2.5 M) 
(Value: 
(Value:
US$3.0 M) 
US$2.4 M)
Improved 
DLI 3 
DLI 6 
DLI 10 
DLI 14
Quality ofState 
Definition of 
At least 10 State 
Central 
At least 20% of
quality 
Universities offer 
Information 
Last-Year
standards for 
Career Services that 
System is 
Students are
Career 
comply with quality 
operational at 
provided quality
Services is 
standards defined by 
each State 
Career Services
approved by 
SPC as set forth in the 
University at set 
at set forth in
the SPC and 
Verification Protocols 
forth in the 
the Verification
disseminated 
Verification 
Protocols
to at least 12 
Protocols
State
Universities,
as set forth
in the
Verification
Protocols
(Scalable) 
(Scalable) 
(Scalable)
(Value: 
(Value: US$2.5 M) 
(Value: 
(Value:
US$5.0 M) 
US$2.5 M) 
US$2.6 M)
Calendar years of completion of DLIs are indicative; DLls may be achieved prior to the expected completion
date set out in Schedule IV or after said date.
11
No 06 
18
DLI4 
DLI7 
DLIll 
DLIl5
Definition of 
At least 3 pilot 
At least 10 State 
At least 12 State
quality 
Structural Networks are 
Universities 
Universities
standards for 
operational as set forth 
have Remedial 
have operational
Remedial 
in the Verification 
Programs that 
Early-Waming
Programs is 
Protocols 
comply with 
Systems as set
approved by 
quality 
forth in the
Improved Equity 
the SPC and 
standards 
Verification
disseminated 
approved by 
Protocols
of State 
to at least 12 
SCP as set forth
State 
in the
Universities 
Universities, 
Verification
as set forth 
Protocols
in the
Verification
Protocols
(Scalable) 
(Scalable) 
(Scalable)
(Value: 
(Value: US$2.500685 M) 
(Value: 
(Value:
US$5.0 M) 
US$2.5 M) 
US$2.4 M)
DLI 2 
DLI 8 
DLI 12 
DLI 16
Pertinence Diagnostic is 
At least 5 Thematic 
At least 4 
At least 70% of
Strengthen State 
Networks are 
Thematic 
all regional or
Universities 
completed and disseminated to at 
operational as set forth 
Networks have 
national
in the Verification 
met 70% of 
Development
institutional 
least 12 State Universities, as set 
Protocols 
their annual 
Projects have
performance 
achieved at least
capacity to 
forth in the Verification Protocols 
targets as set 
70% of their
forth in the 
annual targets as
address regional 
Verification 
set forth in the
Protocols 
Verification
and national 
Protocols
development 
(Scalable) 
(Scalable) 
(Scalable)
challenges
(Value: US$5.0 M) 
(Value: US$2.5 M) 
(Value: 
(Value:
US$2.0 M) 
US$2.6 M)
Estimated
10M 
10M 
10.000685 M 
10M 
10M
disbursement
12
No 0 6 
18
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Academic Offering Reports" means a report which includes data collection, surveys'
results and studies that identify local priority areas for new academic programs at State Universities.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption in
Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and
revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
3. 
"Approved Budget Lines" means the following budget lines: (i) Convenio Marco
Universidades Estatales; (ii) Plan de Fortalecimiento Universidades Estatales; and (iii) Educaci6n
Superior Regional, reflected in Partida 09, Capitulo 01, Programa 29, subtitulo 24 of MINEDUC
annual budget approved by the Borrower's Public Sector Budget Law for the year 2017 (Ley de
Presupuestos del Sector Pfiblico Ahio 2017), and the equivalent budget lines approved in the
respective annual Borrower's Public Sector Budget Laws for the following years of Project
implementation.
4. 
"Bank Safeguard Policies" means the Bank's operational policies and procedures set forth
in the Bank's Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04, 4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.36 and 4.37,
as said manual is published under http://www.worldbank.org.
5. 
"Career Services" means services and programs that aim to improve university-to-job
transition for students in State Universities.
6. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A. of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
7. 
"Central Information System" means a centralized information system at MINEDUC that
inter-operates with the information systems of each State University to gather, process, and
organize comparable updated data on educational inputs, processes and outputs and which includes
indicators that monitor the performance of the targets set in the ISDP (for all States Universities).
8. 
"Development Project" means a national or regional research project, one of which at least
shall be included in each ISDP, and which includes an annual implementation plan with annual
objectives, performance indicators, and targets.
9. 
"Disbursement-Linked Indicators" or "DLIs" means the set of indicators set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and for which the operational definitions and respective verification
mechanisms are included in the Verification Protocols and in Project Operational Manual.
10. 
"DIVESUP" means Divisidn de Educaci6n Superior, MINEDUC's Division of High
Education, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
11. 
"Early-Warning Systems" means the information systems described in Part 1(e) of the
Project.
13
ho 0 6 
18
12. 
"EEPs Spending Report" means the report prepared by the Borrower, through MINEDUC,
in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter and set forth in the Project
Operational Manual, on the spending status of the EEPs in relation to the Approved Budget Lines.
13. 
"Eligible Expenditure Programs" or "EEPs" means a set of defined expenditures,
acceptable to the Bank, within the Approved Budget Lines which are related to transfers to State
Universities for payment of non-procurable expenditures related to the activities under Parts 2 and
3 of the Project, as further described in the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter and in
the Project Operational Manual (and these expenditures constitute a subset of the Eligible
Expenditures defined in the General Conditions).
14. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing", dated July 14, 2017,
available at website http://www.worldbank.org.
15. 
"Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework" or "IPPF" means the Borrower's framework,
acceptable to the Bank (included in the Project Operational Manual), published both in the
MINEDUC's website (www.mecesup.cl) on August 11, 2017 and in the Bank's website on August
15, 2017, setting forth measures to mitigate any adverse impact on indigenous peoples as a result
of any activity carried out under the Project and to ensure that they benefit from the Project, as said
framework may be updated and/or amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
16. 
"Inter-institutional Agreements" means the agreements referred to in Section I.A.3 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
17. 
"ISDP" or Institutional Strengthening Development Plan means a long-term (10- year) plan
developed by each State University under the Project that will include a set of objectives, activities,
and yearly achievement targets to improve the quality, relevance, and efficiency of said State
University, and at least one Development Project.
18. 
"Last-Year Students" means all students enrolled in their last year of studies in the State
Universities which have Career Services standards that comply with the verification process for
DLI 6 set forth in the Verification Protocols.
19. 
"MINEDUC" means Ministerio de Educacidn, the Borrower's Ministry of Education, or
any successor thereof acceptable to the Bank.
20. 
"Pertinence 
Diagnostic" 
means a study 
prepared 
by 
MINEDUC 
providing a
comprehensive diagnostic profile of every State University with a focus on their linkages to
regional and national development.
21. 
"Ph.D." means Doctor of Philosophy or an equivalent academic degree.
22. 
"Project Operational Manual" means the Borrower's manual dated September 6, 2017,
prepared by the Borrower, through MINEDUC, referred to in Section I.A.2. of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, as said manual may be amended from time to time by the Borrower, through
MINEDUC, with the agreement of the Bank.
14
23. 
"Regional Diagnostic" means a report that identifies regional development priorities of
the Borrower's regional economies and their implications on the education and training offerings
at State Universities.
24. 
"Remedial Program" means a program that reduces student dropout and delays in academic
progression.
25. 
"Scalable DLIs" means DLIs 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16, which, in case of
non-achievement, or partial achievement thereof, may be disbursed proportionally to its degree of
achievement and carried forward to a subsequent withdrawal period as set forth in Section III.B.2
(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
26. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the date of the Loan
Agreement" in the General Conditions. The dates on which the Borrower's Treasurer General and
Controller General countersigned this Agreement are not considered for purposes of establishing
the Signature Date.
27. 
"State Universities" or "SU" means any university of state character created by law in the
Borrower's territory.
28. 
"State Universities Sector" means the State Universities and all central and regional entities
and regional governments that relate to State Universities.
29. 
"Strengthening Plan Committee" or "SPC" means a committee in charge of the
coordination, approval, supervision and follow-up of the initiatives and projects proposed by State
Universities that are financed under the Project, to be created by Law, Decree or MINEDUC's
Resolution, as applicable.
30. 
"Structural Network" means a network that includes at least nine (9) State Universities to
develop and implement cooperatively policies, activities, and programs to address common issues
such as curriculum reform, academic progression, institutional quality assurance mechanisms, and
social inclusion to be selected by MINEDUC in coordination with the SPC and according to the
criteria established by the SPC and acceptable to the Bank.
31. 
"Thematic Network" means a regional or national network that includes at least three (3)
State Universities, and preferably one external stakeholder, and that serves to promote the
development of research, innovation, and value chains for sectors of the economy (e.g. mining,
fishing) and/or themes (e.g. climate change), always based on addressing a key development
challenge, to be selected according to the criteria established by the SPC and acceptable to the
Bank.
32. 
"Verification Protocols" means the set of protocols setting forth the actions and
mechanisms required for verification of DLIs, agreed with the Bank and included in the Project
Operational Manual and in the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, as the same may be
amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
15
