OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8819-CM
Loan Agreement
(Fiscal Consolidation and Inclusive Growth Development Policy Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
U2DEC 2PI~7
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8819-CM
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to provide this financing on the
basis, inter alia, of: (i) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and
which are described in Section I of Schedule I to this Agreement; and (ii) the Borrower's
maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank
therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I- 
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II- 
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of one hundred seventy-two million
Euro (EUR 172,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion ("Loan").
2.02. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.03 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.04. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Fixed Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
2.07. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.05 of the General Conditions, the
Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of
this Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this end,
and further to Section 5.05 of the General Conditions:
-2-
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework and the
progress achnieved in carrying out the Pogrqm; md
(b) 
without limitation upon paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall promptly
inform the Bank of any situation that would have the effect of materially reversing
the objectives of the Program or any action taken under the Program including any
ation spe6led in Section I of Schedue I to this Agrtmernt.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension shall be that a situation has arisen which shall make
it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be carried out.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration shall be that the event specified in Section 4.01 of
this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 60 days after notice of the event
has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness shall be that the Bank is satisfied with the
progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program and with the adequacy of
the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of economy, planning, and regional
development.
6.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower's address is:
Ministry of Economy, Planning and Regional Development
Yaound6
Republic of Cameroon; and
(b) 
the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile:
(237) 222 22 15 09
6.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) 
the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202477-6391
64145(MCI)
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
REPUBLIC OF 
1ROON
(c or 0,
Authorized Representative
Date: 
)2 OFEC 2011
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
wu 
ntative
Name:
Title:-F
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; AvailabIity of Loan Proceeds
Section .
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
I. 
To improve revenue mobilization, the Borrower's minister responsible for finance has:
(a) included an assessment of tax expenditures from indirect taxes as an annex to the draft
2018 Finance Law submitted for parliamentary approval; and (b) implemented the first
phase of a program of joint audits between tax and customs authorities of the cement,
forestry and telecommunications sectors.
44
2. 
To improve payroll and human resource management, the Borrower's minister responsible
for civil service has initiated disciplinary proceedings before the Permanent Disciplinary
Council of the Civil Service of irregular public officials identified through the 2016 civil
service census.
3. 
To improve corporate governance and management of public enterprises, the Borrower's
president has promulgated two laws detailing the responsibilities, monitoring and control
of public enterprises and agencies in compliance with OHADA.
4. 
To improve the financial sustainability of the energy sector and enhance private sector
confidence, the Borrower's minister responsible for finance has: (a) concluded with ENEO,
the 11th amendment to the 2005 debt repayment agreement to clear arrears of
XAF 54 billion in electricity bills and compensation subsidies accumulated between the
Government and ENEO as of August 31, 2017; (b) prepared a payment plan with a clear
timetable for the payment of said arrears; and (c) included in the draft 2018 Finance Law
submitted for parliamentary approval: (i) a portion of the arrears to be paid in FY 2018 as
specified in the payment plan referred to in (b) above; and (ii) the compensatory subsidy
to be paid to ENEO in FY 2018.
5. 
To improve road maintenance and management of road assets, the Borrower's (a) minister
responsible for finance has included in the draft 2018 Finance Law submitted for
parliamentary approval, an allocation of XAF 56 billion to be transferred to the Road
Maintenance Fund and (b) minister responsible for public works has adopted a list of
selected routes to be maintained in accordance with the GENiS Agreements.
6. 
To reduce length of stay and transit time at the port of Douala: (a) the Borrower's director
general of customs in his capacity as the president of the Single Window for Foreign Trade
Operations, has extended the single form of foreign trade operations to all phases of the
international logistics chain (pre-clearance, take-over, clearance, removal); and (b) the
National Port Authority has approved the revised port tariffs in order to increase the storage
levy at the port of Douala.
7. 
To increase the level of funding and management capacity of health facilities and improve
the availability of essential medicines in health regions and districts covered by PBF, the
Borrower's: (a) minister responsible for public health and minister responsible for finance
-5-
have issued a joint circular allowing all health facilities under the PBF program to benefit
from special fiduciary arrangements specified in the national PBF manual; and (b) minister
responsible for public health has issued a circular allowing Regional Health Promotion
Funds to purchase pharmaceutical products from accredited public or private wholesalers
through simplified procedures.
8. 
To improve efficiency of health sector spending, the Borrower's minister responsible for
health has expanded the administrative coverage of the PBF program by introducing at
least four additional performance contracts at the central level of the MoPH.
9. 
To increase accessibility to textbooks in primary and secondary schools, the Borrower's
prime minister has issued: (a) a circular on The principles guiding the new school textbook
policy to reduce the cost of books and increase their availability; and (b) a ddcret.
(i) reorganizing the Conseil National d'Agriment des Manuel &olaires et des Matriel
Didactiques (CNAMSMD); and (ii) setting up the national commission to streamline the
development cycle of textbooks.
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by
notice to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the Front-
end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the Borrower may make
withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is
set out in the table below:
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan Tranche
Allocated
(expressed in Euros)
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 
171,570,000
(2) Front-end Fee 
430,000
TOTAL AMOUNT 
172,000,000
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.
1. 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank
is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with
the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
D. 
Deposit of Loan Amounts.
'I 
The Borrower shaMx open a Dreposht Account, prior to furnishing toIneBank Vne farst request
for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain the following two deposit
accounts on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank:
(a) 
a deposit account in Euro ("Foreign Currency Deposit Account"); and
(b) 
a deposit account in XAF ("Local Currency Deposit Account").
2. 
All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Foreign
Currency Deposit.Account. Upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into the Foreign
Currency Deposit Account, the Borrower sball deposit an equivalent amount into the Local
Currency Deposit Account. All amounts withdrawn from the Local Currency Deposit
Account shall be used exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
E. 
Audit. Upon the Bank's request, the Borrower shall:
have the Deposit Accounts audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank;
2. 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case, not later than four months after
the date of the Bank's request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, and make such report
publicly available in a timely fashion and in a manner acceptable to the Bank; and
3. 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Accounts and their audit
4 
as the Bank shall reasonably requ6st.
F. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is December 31, 2018.
-7-
SCHEDULE2
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule
The following tabie sets forth the iincipal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date ("Installment Share").
Level Principal Repayments'
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
On each May 15 and November 15, 
2.17
beginning May 15, 2025
through May 15, 2047
OnNovember 15,2047 
235
The determination of the principal amounts of the Loan repayable on each Principal Payment Date is made
in accordance with Section 3.03 of the General Conditions.
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Conseil National d'Agriment des Manuels Scolaires et des Mardriels Didactiques" or
"CNAMSMD" means the Borrower's national council for the approval of school books
and 
teaching 
materials 
established 
pursuant 
to 
the 
Borrower's Ddcret
2017/11738/CAB/PM du 23 novembre 2017 Portant Organisation du Conseil National
d 'Agrdment des Manuels Scolaires et des Matdriels Didactiques.
2. 
"Deposit Accounts" means both the Foreign Currency Deposit Account and the Local
Currency Deposit Account
3. 
"ENEO" means a public limited liability company regulated under the Borrower's laws
and registered with the Registre du Commerce et du Crddit Mobilier de Douala under
No. 4624, and headquartered on Avenue Charles De Gaulle in Douala.
4. 
"Finance Law" means the Borrower's annual budget as approved by the Borrower's legal
5. 
"Fiscal Year"or "FY" means the Borrower's fiscal year as determined by the Finance Law.
6. 
"Foreign Currency Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Part D.1(a) of
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
7. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Development Policy Financing", dated
July 14,2017.
8. 
"GENiS Agreements" means service-level management and maintenance agreements.
9. 
"Local Currency Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Part D.1(b) of
Section II of Schedule I to this Agreement.
10. 
"MINTP" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for public works, and any successor
thereto.
11. 
"MoPH" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for public health, and any successor
thereto.
12. 
"National Port Authority" means the Borrower's national port authority established
pursuant to the Borrower's Ddcret 99/130 dejuin 1999 Portant Crdation du Port Autonome
de Douala.
13. 
"OHADA" means the organization for the harmonization of business laws in Africa, a
system of corporate law and implementing institutions adopted in 1993 by 17 west and
central African countries.
14. 
"PBF" means performance-based financing.
15. 
"Permanent Disciplinary Council of the Civil Service" means the Borrower's council
established pursuant to the Borrower's Ddcret 2000/685 du 13 septembre 2000 Portant
Organisation et Fonctionnement du Conseil Permanent de Discipline de la Fonction
Publique et Fixant les Rigles de la Procidure Disciplinaire.
16. 
"Program" means the program of objectives, policies, and actions set forth or referred to
in the letter dated November 13, 2017, from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from
the Bank in support of the Program during its execution and comprising actions taken,
including those set forth in Section I of Schedule I to this Agreement, and actions to be
taken consistent with the program's objectives.
17. 
"Regional Health Promotion Funds" means Fonds Regionale pour la Promotion de la
Santi, the funds established in select regions of the Recipient pursuant to the Borrower's
laws to perform all public service activities in the health domain within the relevant
jurisdiction.
18. 
"Road Maintenance Fund" means the Borrower's road management fund established
pursuant to the Borrower's loi 96/07 du 8 avril 1996 Portant Protection du Patrimoine
Routier National and modified by the Borrower's loi 2004/021 du 22 juillet 2004 Modifiant
et Complditant Certaines Dispositions de la Loi 96/07.
19. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the date of the Loan
Agreement" in the General Conditions.
20. 
"Single Window for Foreign Trade Operations" means the Borrower's single window for
foreign trade operations established pursuant to the Borrower's Dicret 99/128 du
15juin 1999 Portant Organisation et Fonctionnement des Organismes Portuaires
Autonomes and the Borrower's Statut du 7juillet 1999 portant Crdation d'un Guichet
Unique des Opgrations du Commerce Extirieur sous la Forme d'un Groupement dIntirit
Economique.
21. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category
entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of
Schedule I to this Agreement.
22. 
"XAF" means the local currency of the Borrower.
