OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8716-CO
Loan Agreement
(First Fiscal Sustainability and Competitiveness Development Policy Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
OPmu4 
,2014
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated S.pyy)e; 1, 2011, entered into between REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to provide this financing on
the basis, inter alia, of: (i) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and
which are described in Section I of Schedule I to this Agreement; and (ii) the Borrower's
maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank
therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE H -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of five hundred sixty eight million three hundred thousand
Euro (EUR 568,300,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement
("Loan").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in
accordance with Section II of Schedule I to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%), of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than
sixty days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, however, that the
interest payable shall in no event be less than zero percent (0%) per annum; and provided
furthermore that, upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General
Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance
remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then
the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02
(e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; and (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice
versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the
Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
2.09. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 of Section II of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall promptly
furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this Article II as the Bank
may, from time to time, reasonably request.
ARTICLE II -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this end,
and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework and the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower, through DNP, shall furnish to
the Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying
out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and
2
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section,
the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have the
effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action taken
under the Program, including any action specified in Section I of Schedule I to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that situation has
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be
carried out.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that the Bank
is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program and
with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance and Public Credit.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Carrera 8 No. 6 C 38 Bogoti D.C Piso 30
E-Mail: Desmin@minhacienda.gov.co
Facsimile: (571) 350 9344
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
3
AGREED at 
R epubbI cOF Colowbia 
,as of the day and
year first above writen.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
M9At10o CA2-DEAS
Title: 
M IISTFR cF PN ANCF.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By
Antiorized Rpeefv
Name: 
LUIS FFPAADO 
MFHA
Title: 
D)1QFCTO ,. MPT(nKAL PLAMIt\iG
DFARMENT
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
155AM 
ASOUSLEIMA
Title: 
CouNTPY MANAGER, LCCCO
4
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section 1. 
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
1. 
The Borrower has 'adopted measures to reduce its Executive Branch's recurrent
expenditures in the context of the 2016 national budget, including: (i) the implementation
of cutbacks in general operating expenses (gastos generales) and communication costs;
and (ii) the establishment of a set of limitations for hiring new personnel, including a freeze
in overall personnel numbers, as evidenced by the Borrower's Presidential Directive No.
I dated February 10, 2016, and published in the Official Gazette on February 10, 2016.
2. 
The Borrower has established a set of rules to improve the funding of public pension
liabilities at the subnational level, including: (i) the requirement of registering public
pension liabilities in FONPET on a regular basis and by administration sector; (ii) the
procedure for transferring funds across said sectors to ensure adequate funding coverage;
and (iii) the conditions for using any excess sectoral savings, as evidenced by the
Borrower's Decree No. 630, dated April 18, 2016, and published in the Official Gazette on
April 18, 2016.
3. 
The Borrower has adopted a tax reform which, inter alia: (i) increases the general sales
tax (VAT) rate from 16% to 19%: (ii) establishes a single corporate income tax (Impuesto
sobre la Renta de Personas Juridicas), and lowers overall corporate tax rates; (iii) applies
the Personal Income Tax to dividends; (iv) establishes a single tax ("monotributo") for
small traders; and (v) increases the rates of the tobacco and liquors and wine taxes, as
evidenced by Borrower's Law No. 1816 and Law No. 1819, dated December 19 and 29,
2016, and published in the Official Gazette on December 19 and 29, 2016, respectively.
4. 
The Borrower has adopted the following environmental taxes: (i) a carbon tax on fossil
fuels proportional to their C02 emissions; and (ii) a tax on plastic bags, as evidenced by
the Borrower's Law No. 1819, dated December 29, 2016 and published in the Official
Gazette on December 29, 2016.
5. 
The Borrower has adopted measures for preventing, controlling and sanctioning
contraband, money laundering and tax evasion, as evidenced by the Borrower's Law No.
1762, dated July 6, 2015, and published in the Official Gazette on July 6, 2015.
6. 
The Borrower has established the regulatory framework which lays the foundations for the
adoption and usage of electronic invoices, including, inter alia: (i) conditions and
procedures for issuing, receiving and processing electronic invoices; and (ii) rules for their
circulation as legal title, as evidenced, respectively, by the Borrower's Decree No. 2242,
dated November 24, 2015, and published in the Official Gazette on November 24, 2015,
5
and the Borrower's Decree No. 1349, dated August 22, 2016, and published in the Official
Gazette on August 22, 2016.
7. 
The Borrower has adopted: (i) a customs regulatory framework ("regulaci6n aduanera")
to, inter alia, improve risk management practices in connection with custom controls and
establish standard procedures for the electronic processing of customs documents; and (ii)
procedures for using scanners to inspect goods transiting at the Borrower's maritime
terminals, as evidenced, respectively, by the Borrower's Decree No. 390, dated March 7,
2016, and published in the Official Gazette on March 7, 2016 and the Borrower's
Resolution No. 84 issued by its Intersectoral Committee for the Implementation and
Monitoring of Non-Intrusive Inspection Systems (Comisi6n Intersectorial Para la
Implementaci6ny Seguimiento de Los Sistemas de Inspecci6n No Intrusiva), dated July 3 1,
2015.
8. 
The Borrower has adopted measures to foster competition including, inter alia: (i)
incentives to promote collaboration of cartel members in detecting and investigating anti-
competitive agreements; and (ii) a fixed term and objective criteria for the selection and
appointment of the director of the Borrower's Superintendence of Industry and Commerce
(Superintendencia de Industriay Comercio), whose responsibilities include, inter alia, the
carrying out of competition oversight activities, as evidenced, respectively, by the
Borrower's Decree No. 1523, dated July 16, 2015, published in the Official Gazette on July
16, 2015, and Decree No. 1817, dated September 15, 2015, and published in the Official
Gazette on September 15, 2015.
9. 
The Borrower has approved a national development policy for productivity development
aimed to, inter alia, promote an efficient use of public resources by recommending a
number of measures, including: (i) a cost-benefit analysis for new public projects; and (ii) a
periodic 
review 
of public 
expenditures 
relating 
to 
projects 
in the areas 
of
science, technology and innovation, as evidenced by Section 5.3.3 of Borrower's CONPES
No. 3866, dated August 8, 2016 and published in the web page of DNP.
10. 
The Borrower has established the criteria and procedures for identifying projects entitled
to access specific tax incentives under the Borrower's existing fiscal legislation and within
the established fiscal deductions' cap, as evidenced by Decisions No. 13, 14 and 15 of the
Borrower's National Council of Tax Benefits for Science, Technology and Innovation
(Consejo Nacional de Beneficios Tributarios en Ciencia, Tecnologia y Innovaci6n), dated,
respectively, December 31, 2015, February 26, 2016 and March 22, 2016.
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by
notice to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from
which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
6
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan (expressed in Euros
(1) Single Withdrawal 
568,300,000
Tranche
TOTAL AMOUNT 
568,300,000
C. 
Payment of Front-end Fee. No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account until
the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee.
D. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.
1. 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank
is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with
the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
E. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and
2. 
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower's budget
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
F. 
Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not
be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an
amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the amount
of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be
cancelled.
G. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is March 30, 2018.
7
SCHEDULE 2
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on October 15, 2036.
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"CONPES" means Consejo Nacional de Politica Econdmica y Social, the Borrower's
council for national economic and social policy.
2. 
"DNP" means the Borrower's National Planning Department, or any successor thereto
acceptable to the Bank.
3. 
"Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or international
financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association has financed
or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association has financed or agreed
to finance under another loan, credit, or grant;
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item
112 
Alcoholic beverages
121 
Tobacco, un-manufactured,
tobacco refuse
122 
Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)
525 
Radioactive and associated
materials
667 
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated,
for nuclear reactors
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing
machinery
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths' or
silversmiths' wares
(including set gems)
9
971 
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold ores and
concentrates)
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the
Borrower is a party);
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or
coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other
recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower (or other such recipient)
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address such
practices when they occur.
4. 
"FONPET" means Fondo Nacional de Pensiones de las Entidades Territoriales, the
National Pension Fund of the Territorial Entities of the Borrower, established pursuant to
Law No. 549, dated December 28, 1999.
5. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section 11 of this Appendix.
6. 
"Official Gazette" means the Borrower's Diario Oficial.
7. 
"Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the
letter dated January 25, 2017 from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in
support of the Program during its execution.
8. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category
entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of
Schedule I to this Agreement.
Section H. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1 .
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
10
2. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for Withdrawal)
is deleted in its entirety.
3. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in their
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
4. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually
in arrears on each Payment Date."
5. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally) and 5.09 (Financial Management; Financial
Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the subsequent Sections in Article V
are renumbered accordingly.
6. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above and
relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
7. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above) is
modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records
.. 
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until two years after
the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
records."
8. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above) is
modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish to the
Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the
performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the
Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."
11
9. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all references to Section numbers and paragraphs are
modified, as necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above.
10. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition
of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the remaining paragraphs accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
11. 
Renumbered paragraph 37 (originally paragraph 36) of the Appendix ("Eligible
Expenditure") is modified to read as follows:
"37. 
"Eligible Expenditure" means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the
Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan Agreement."
12. 
Renumbered paragraph 44 (originally paragraph 43) of the Appendix ("Financial
Statements") is deleted in its entirety.
13. 
In paragraph 48 of the Appendix, the definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing
the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
14. 
In paragraph 67 of the Appendix, the definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to
read as follows:
"67. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower."
15. 
In paragraph 72 of the Appendix, the definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting
the word "is" and inserting the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word
"interest".
16. 
The defined term "Project" in paragraph 75 of the Appendix is modified to read "Program"
and its definition is modified to read as follows (and all references to "Project" throughout
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to "Program"):
"75. 
"Program" means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of
which the Loan is made."
12
