OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8701-CO
Loan Agreement
(Access and Quality in Higher Education Project)
(Programa de Acceso y Calidad de la Educacidn Superior - PACES)
between
INSTITUTO COLOMBIANO DE CREDITO EDUCATIVO Y ESTUDIOS TECNICOS
EN EL EXTERIOR MARIANO OSPINA PEREZ - ICETEX
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 7\ V,201-
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement 
dated 
:%, 
201,- 
between 
INSTITUTO
COLOMBIANO DE CREDITO"E UCATIVO Y ESTUDIOS TECNICOS EN EL EXTERIOR
MARIANO OSPINA PEREZ - ICETEX ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank").
Whereas the Borrower hereby represents that it has the necessary legal capacity and powers
to enter into this Agreement and perform its obligations set forth herein.
The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred sixty million Dollars ($160,000,000), as
such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in
financing the project described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than sixty
days after the Effective Date.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, however, that the
interest payable shall in no event be less than zero percent (0%) per annum; and provided
furthermore that, upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General
Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance
remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then
-2-
the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02
(e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; and (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice
versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the
Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall: (a) carry out Parts 1.1, 1.2 and 3 of the Project and; (b) cause Part 2 of the
Project to be carried out by COLCIENCIAS/Fondo Caldas, in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the Tripartite Special Cooperation
Agreement and the Enabling Legislation.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project
is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that the Borrower
and/or COLCIENCIAS/Fondo Caldas shall have failed to comply with any of their
respective obligations under the Tripartite Special Cooperation Agreement (including the
Borrower's obligations referred to in Section I.E. 1(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement) so
-3-
as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of
COLCIENCIAS/Fondo Caldas to implement Part 2 of the Project.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following:
(a) 
The Tripartite Special Cooperation Agreement has been duly executed by the
parties thereto.
(b) 
COLCIENCIAS/Fondo Caldas has contracted a financial management specialist
and a procurement specialist under terms and conditions and in a manner
acceptable to the Bank, and in accordance with the relevant provisions of the
Tripartite Special Cooperation Agreement.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the Tripartite Special
Cooperation Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the parties thereto and is
legally binding upon each party in accordance with its terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement,
but in no case later than (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan which expire
on July 30, 2018.
ARTICLE VI- 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the President of ICETEX.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
ICETEX
Carrera 3ra No. 18 - 32
Bogota, Colombia
Facsimile:
+571-599 6323
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at 
)oorA a 
e 
b. 
ci (0oorn6- 
, as of the day and year first
above written.t
INSTITUTO COLOMBIANO DE CREDITO
EDUCATIVO Y ESTUDIOS TECNICOS EN
EL EXTERIOR MARIANO OSPINA PEREZ -
ICETEX
By
Ait 
ed Representative
Name: 
Cclo 
Q
Title: 
Jq 
I_k_
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
LsOs.-r( 
A. Akanu5leicnoLn,
Title: 
COUA 4
M&Ip-jer
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve the quality of tertiary education in participating
institutions and to increase the enrollment of students from disadvantaged socioeconomic
backgrounds in quality programs.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1 
Undergraduate Student Loans and Criditos Condonables for Graduate Education
1. Provision of Student Loans to Selected Undergraduate Students for tertiary
education studies in Eligible TEls.
2. 
Provision of Crditos Condonables to Selected Graduate Students for postgraduate
education in foreign universities.
Part 2 
Quality Enhancement of Tertiary Education Institutions and Programs
Provision of: (i) grants to Eligible TEls to support academic research and
innovation initiatives (Competitive Research Grants); and (ii) financial support to
COLCIENCIAS in connection with the implementation of Part 2 of the Project.
Part 3 
Institutional Strengthening
1. Provision of support to the Borrower for Project management, coordination,
implementation, and monitoring including, inter alia, the carrying out of Project
audits.
2. 
Strengthening of the Borrower's institutional capacity through, inter alia, the
provision of goods and the provision of technical assistance and training.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall carry out Parts 1.1, 1.2 and 3 of the Project, and shall cause COLCIENCIAS/Fondo
Caldas to carry out the Part 2 of the Project, all in accordance with a manual ("Operational
Manual"), satisfactory to the Bank, containing specific provisions on detailed arrangements
for the carrying out of the Project, including, inter alia:
(i) 
a detailed description of the institutional and implementation arrangements of the
Project;
(ii) 
the Project administrative, accounting, auditing, reporting, financial, procurement
and disbursement procedures;
(iii) 
the criteria for the identification of the Selected Undergraduate Students and the
procedures, terms and conditions and detailed arrangements (including a model
TEI Loan Contract) for the provision of Student Loans under Part 1.1 of the
Project;
(iv) 
the criteria and procedures for the identification of the Selected Graduate Students
and the procedures, terms and conditions and detailed arrangements for the
provision of Criditos Condonables under Part 1.2 of the Project;
(v) 
the criteria and procedures for the identification of Eligible TEls under Parts 1.1
and 2 of the Project;
(vi) 
the procedures, terms and conditions and detailed arrangements (including a model
TEI Grant Contract) for the provision of Competitive Research Grants to Eligible
TEls under Part 2(i) of the Project;
(vii) 
the model of the: (a) Student Loan Agreement; and (b) Cridito Condonable
Agreement;
(viii) 
the staffing requirements, qualifications and functions of the PCT and
COLCIENCIAS/Fondo Caldas in connection with the implementation of the Parts
of the Project under their respective responsibility;
(ix) the terms and conditions and bidding documents for selecting and designating Fondo
Caldas' trustee and legal representative;
(x) 
the Anti-Corruption Guidelines; and
-7-
(xi) 
the monitoring indicators for the Project.
2. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, and shall cause
COLCIENCIAS/Fondo Caldas to, not amend or waive any provision of the Operational
Manual without the Bank's prior written approval. In the event that any provision of the
Operational Manual shall conflict with this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall
prevail.
3. 
The Borrower, shall operate and maintain, throughout the implementation of the Project,
the PCT with functions, responsibilities, and staff with qualifications and in numbers as
provided in the Operational Manual and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
4. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section I.E.2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall,
prior to any amendment to the Tripartite Special Cooperation Agreement which may result
in the substitution of the Trustee: (a) inform the Bank of said event and prepare and furnish
to the Bank, an action plan (including a time-table), acceptable to the Bank, indicating the
actions taken or to be taken to address said event; and (b) thereafter amend the Tripartite
Special Cooperation Agreement, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank and in
accordance with said action plan.
B. 
Student Loans
Prior to the provision of any Student Loan, the Borrower shall enter into an agreement
("Student Loan Agreement") with the corresponding Selected Undergraduate Student,
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, including, inter alia, the obligation of
the Selected Undergraduate Student to repay the Student Loan to the Borrower.
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each Student Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. The Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate,
terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Student Loan Agreement or any of its provisions in
such manner as not to affect materially and adversely the ability to accomplish the purposes
of the Loan.
C. 
Criditos Condonables
1. 
Prior to the provision of any Cridito Condonable, the Borrower shall enter into an
agreement ("Cridito Condonable Agreement") with the corresponding Selected Graduate
Student, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each Cridito
Condonable Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. The Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Cridito Condonable Agreement or any
of its provisions in such manner as not to affect materially and adversely the ability to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
D. 
Competitive Research Grants
1. 
Prior to the provision of any Competitive Research Grant, the Borrower shall cause
COLCIENCIAS/Fondo Caldas to enter into an agreement ("Competitive Research Grant
Agreement") with the corresponding Eligible TEI, under terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause Fondo Caldas/CONCIENCIAS to exercise their rights and carry
out their obligations under each Competitive Research Grant Agreement in such manner
as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of
the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause Fondo
Caldas/CONCIENCIAS to not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce
any Competitive Research Grant Agreement or any of its provisions.
E. 
Tripartite Special Cooperation Agreement
1. 
For purposes of carrying out Part 2 of the Project, the Borrower shall enter into an
agreement (the Tripartite Special Cooperation Agreement) with Fondo Caldas (as duly
represented by the Trustee) and COLCIENCIAS, under terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank, as established in the Operational Manual, including, inter alia:
(a) 
the respective functions and duties of the Borrower, COLCIENCIAS and Fondo
Caldas (as duly represented by the Trustee) in connection with the implementation
of Part 2 of the Project and the relevant coordination mechanisms, procedures,
terms and conditions for carrying out the activities under their respective
responsibility;
(b) 
the Borrower's obligation to: (i) provide, on a grant basis, and in a timely manner
as needed, the proceeds of the Loan required for the implementation of the
activities under Part 2 of the Project, to the Fondo Caldas; and (ii) take or permit
to be taken all actions to enable the COLCIENCIAS/Fondo Caldas, respectively,
to comply with the provisions of the Tripartite Special Cooperation Agreement;
(c) 
the obligation of COLCIENCIAS/Fondo Caldas, to: (i) carry out the activities
under Part 2 of the Project in accordance with the pertinent provisions of this
Agreement (including the Procurement and Financial Management sections of this
Schedule), the Anti-Corruption Guidelines, the IPP and the Operational Manual,
as applicable; (ii) enable the Bank to inspect the accounts, records and other
documents of COLCIENCIAS/Fondo Caldas relating to said Part of the Project
upon the Bank's request; (iii) upon the Borrower's or the Bank's request, have
such accounts, records and other documents audited by or on behalf of the Bank,
using the terms of reference agreed with the Bank; and (iv) take or permit to be
taken all actions to enable the Borrower to comply with the provisions of this
Agreement with regard to Part 2 of the Project; and
(d) 
the obligation of COLCIENCIAS to maintain, throughout the implementation of
the Project, staff with qualifications and experience, functions and responsibilities,
-9-
and in adequate numbers, as provided in the Operational Manual and in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the Tripartite
Special Cooperation Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail
to enforce the Tripartite Special Cooperation Agreement, or any of its provisions. In case
of any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and the provisions of either the
Tripartite Special Cooperation Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
F. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
G. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the IPP.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and
on the basis of the indicators set forth below in the Operational Manual. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than sixty days after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare
and furnish to the Bank not later than sixty days after the end of each calendar semester,
interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions
of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall
cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower, commencing with the fiscal year in
which the first withdrawal was made under the Preparation Advance for the Project. The
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later
than six months after the end of such period.
-10-
Section HI. 
Procurement
All goods, non-consulting services and consulting services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in the Procurement Regulations and the provisions of
the Procurement Plan.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article 11 of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank Disbursement
Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as
made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures
in each Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Student Loans under Part 
92,000,000 
100%
1.1 of the Project
(2) Criditos Condonables 
12,000,000 
100%
under Part 1.2 of the Project
(3)(a) Competitive Research 
53,400,000 
100%
Grants under Part 2(i) of the
Project
(3)(b) Goods, non-consulting 
2,600,000 
100%
services, consulting services,
Operating Costs and Training
under Part 2(ii) of the Project
TOTAL AMOUNT 
160,000,000
For the purposes of this Section:
(a) 
the term "Training" means expenditures (other than those for consulting services)
incurred in connection with the carrying out of training, seminars, and workshops,
including the reasonable travel costs (e.g. accommodations, transportation costs
and per diem) of trainees and trainers (if applicable), catering, rental of training
-11-
facilities and equipment, training registration fees, as well as training materials and
equipment under Part 2(ii) of the Project; and
(b) 
the term "Operating Costs" means the reasonable incremental operating costs
(which would not have been incurred absent the Project) incurred by
COLCIENCIAS/Fondo Caldas, related to the technical and administrative
management, monitoring and supervision of Part 2 of the Project, including inter
alia, remuneration for operational and technical staff, reasonable external auditing
costs, non-durable office supplies, reasonable bank charges, travel costs (including
accommodations, 
transportation costs and per diem), printing 
services,
communication costs, utilities, maintenance of office equipment and facilities,
vehicle operation and maintenance costs, and logistics services.
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-
end Fee; and
(b) 
for payments made under Category 3(b) prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 may be made
for payments made prior to this date but on or after January 1, 2017 (but in no case
more than 12 months before the date of this Agreement), for Eligible Expenditures
under said Category.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 1, 2022.
-12-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall repay each
Disbursed Amount in semiannual installments payable on each April 15 and Octoberl5,
the first installment to be payable on the thirteenth (13th) Payment Date following the
Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount and the last installment to be payable on
the forty-fifth (45th) Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed
Amount. Each installment except for the last one shall be equal to one-thirty-third (1/33 rd)
of the Disbursed Amount. The last installment shall be equal to the remaining outstanding
amount of the Disbursed Amount.
2. 
If any one or more installments of principal of the Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to
the provisions of paragraph I of this Schedule, be payable after April 15, 2044, the
Borrower shall also pay on such date the aggregate amount of all such installments.
3. 
The Bank shall notify the Loan Parties of the amortization schedule for each Disbursed
Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 through 3 of this Schedule, in the event of
a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed Amount to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to
the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating
to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan
Currency.
-13-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated
October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
3. 
"COLCIENCIAS" means 'Departamento Administrativo de Ciencia, Tecnologia y
Innovaci6n', the Republic of Colombia's Administrative Department of Science,
Technology and Innovation, established pursuant to article 5 of Republic of Colombia's
Law No. 1286 of January 23, 2009, which is the sole trustor of Fondo Caldas, and any
subsequent amendment thereof.
4. 
"Competitive Research Grant" means a grant made out of the proceeds of the Loan by
COLCIENCIAS/Fondo Caldas to an Eligible TEI under Part 2(i) of the Project.
5. 
"Competitive Research Grant Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in
Section I.D. I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
6. 
"Cridito Condonable" means a sub-loan that may be partially forgiven in accordance with
the relevant terms and conditions set forth in the Operational Manual, made out of the
proceeds of the Loan by the Borrower to a Selected Graduate Student to finance tuition
costs, room and board and transportation expenses under Part 1.2 of the Project.
7. 
"Cr9dito Condonable Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in Section I.C. 1
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
8. 
"Eligible TEI" means any TEI that meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational
Manual to participate in the implementation of Parts 1.1 and 2 of the Project.
9. 
"Enabling Legislation" means, respectively: (i) article 22 of Republic of Colombia's Law
No. 1286 of January 23, 2009, which, inter alia, established Fondo Caldas and provided
that COLCIENCIAS is its only trustor; (ii) article 5 of Republic of Colombia's Law No.
1286 of January 23, 2009, which, inter alia, established COLCIENCIAS; and (iii) the
Agreement between COLCIENCIAS and Fiduciaria La Previsora S.A. dated July 23,
2014, which designated Fiduciaria La Previsora S.A. as the legal representative and trustee
of Fondo Caldas.
10. 
"Fondo Caldas" means 'Fondo Nacional de Financiamiento Para la Ciencia, la
Tecnologia y la Innovaci6n', the National Financing Fund for Science, Technology and
Innovation, a legal subject (patrimonio aut6nomo) established pursuant to article 22 of
Republic of Colombia's Law No. 1286 of January 23, 2009, and any subsequent
amendment thereof.
-14-
11. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
12. 
"Indigenous Peoples" means a distinct, vulnerable, social and cultural group possessing the
following characteristics in varying degrees: (i) a collective attachment to geographically
distinct habitats or ancestral territories in the Project area and to the natural resources in
these areas; (ii) self-identification and identification by others as members of a distinct
indigenous cultural group; (iii) an indigenous language, often different from the national
language; and (iv) presence of customary, cultural, social or political institutions that are
separate from those of the main society and culture.
13. 
"Indigenous Peoples Plan" or "IPP" means the indigenous peoples plan for the Project,
acceptable to the Bank, and published on the Borrower's website on November 17, 2016
and on the Bank's external website on November 17, 2016, which details an action plan to
assist Indigenous Peoples, afro-Colombians, roma and victims of violence to overcome
barriers to access to tertiary education under the Project, as said plan may be updated from
time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank.
14. 
"Operational Manual" means the Borrower's manual referred to in Section I.A.1 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as said manual may be amended from time to time with the
prior agreement of the Bank.
15. 
"PCT" means the Borrower's Project Coordination Team responsible for the overall
Project coordination and management, and referred to in Section I.A.3 of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
16. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
December 5, 2016 and provided for under Section IV of the Procurement Regulations, as
the same may be updated from time to time in agreement with the Bank.
17. 
"Procurement Regulations" means the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for
Borrowers under Investment Project Financing", dated July 1, 2016.
18. 
"Selected Undergraduate Student" means any undergraduate student in the Republic of
Colombia's territory who is eligible to benefit from a Student Loan in accordance with the
relevant criteria and procedures set forth in the Operational Manual.
19. 
"Selected Graduate Student" means any graduate student in the Republic of Colombia's
territory who is eligible to benefit from a Scholarship, in accordance with the relevant
criteria and procedures set forth in the Operational Manual.
20. 
"Student Loan" means a loan or a loan renewal made out of the proceeds of the Loan by
the Borrower to a Selected Undergraduate Student under Part 1.1 of the Project.
21. 
"Student Loan Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in Section I.B.1 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-15-
22. 
"TEI" means any tertiary education institution on the Republic of Colombia's territory,
as defined in article 16 of Republic of Colombia's Law No. 30 of December 28, 1992 (as
said law has been amended to the date of this Agreement).
23. 
"Tripartite Special Cooperation Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section
I.E. 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
24. 
"Trustee" means Fiduciaria La Previsora S.A., Fondo Caldas' trustee and legal
representative, established by public deed dated March 29, 1985 (as subsequently
amended) and registered with the Chamber of Commerce of Bogotd under registry No.
00247691, or any legal successor thereof, acceptable to the Bank, or any other entity that
may be subsequently designated as Fondo Caldas' trustee and legal representative and
selected through a public competitive process (licitaci6n puiblica) under terms and
conditions and bidding documents acceptable to the Bank, as set forth in the Operational
Manual.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1 .
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually
in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition
of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.0 1(b)."
-16-
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01
(a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition
of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and
Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
