OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8762-PH
Loan Agreement
(Inclusive Partnerships for Agricultural Competitiveness Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
A 
&/'T 
, 2017
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8762-PH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated AUI6 ST .1 
, 2017, between the REPUBLIC OF
THE 
PHILIPPINES 
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unfess the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of ninety-nine million three hundred
twelve thousand nine hundred and ten Dollars ($99,312,910), as such amount may
be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with
the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing
the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter, of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread
provided, however, that the interest payable shall in no event be less than zero
percent (0%) per annum; and; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower
during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance
with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance
-2-
remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty
days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as
provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of. the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread, and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rtate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement
-3-
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through DAR in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE V- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Secretary of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Department of Finance
Department of Finance Building
Bangko Sentral Complex
Roxas Blvd.
Manila, Philippines
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at Manila, Republic of the Philippines, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By
Authorized Reese0ative
Name: CARLO S 
. .
Ad// 
16 Z-
Title: 
106M, 
P 
OF 70JAWA6
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
/ 
Authorized Representative
Name: c/AA 
1JIARUCK
Title: 
COUTAJ*rXX .btec7oe
-5-
SCHEDULE1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to improve access to markets and to enhance the
competitiveness of smallholder famers in the Targeted Agrarian Reform Community
Clusters.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Support Services for Enhanced Market Linkages
(a) 
Extension and Business Development. Enhancing the knowledge and
capability of Eligible Farmers' Organizations (Eligible FOs) in Targeted
ARC Clusters, including the development and implementation of rapid
market assessments, the organization of market matching fora, and the
provision of technical assistance and training to Eligible FOs and local
service providers.
(b) 
Land Tenure Improvement. Supporting the survey and boundary
demarcation necessary for the sub-division of collective Certificates of
Land Ownership Awards on a demand driven basis, and conducting of
policy studies to strengthen the land tenure improvement program of the
Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR).
(c) 
Rural Infrastructure. Carrying out of specific sub-projects supporting the
development of critical infrastructure to enhance farm productivity and
access to markets, based on ARC Cluster development plans, such as:
(i) community infrastructure investments (including, inter alia, water
supply and multi-purpose facilities); (ii) farm to market roads and bridges;
and (ii) small scale/communal irrigation systems.
Part 2: Investments in Productive Partnerships
Provision of Matching Grants to Eligible FOs for Matching Grant Sub-projects
supporting smallholder farmers in the Targeted ARC Clusters to increase their
competitiveness, business orieritation and market position through activities such
as, inter alia, the acquisition of goods, equipment and facilities to enhance
productivity, processing and storage, and the carrying out of training activities,
market studies, surveys, market development activities, and activities related to the
product quality enhancement, certification and branding, and provision of support
for the management and implementation costs of the Matching Grants Program
under this Part 2 of the Project.
-6-.
Part 3: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
Provision of technical and operational support to. the management, coordination,
procurement, financial management, environmental and social management,
including design and installation of a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system
and. the conduct of M&E surveys and reviews.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section 1. 
Implementation Arran2ements
A. 
Project Management Board
I. 
The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain, throughout implementation
of the Project, a Project Management Board (PMB), chaired by the Secretary of
the DAR or his or her authorized representative, with a composition, resources and
a mandate satisfactory to the Bank.
2. 
Without limitation on Section I. A. 1 of Schedule 2 above, the Project Management
Board shall be responsible for, inter alia: (i) policy direction and overall guidance
on Project management; (ii) approval of the Project's annual Work and Financial
Plans; and (iii) establishment of a sub-project approval committee for the selection
of rural infrastructure sub-projects under Part I of the Project and the national and
regional grant committees for the Matching Grants under Part 2 of the Project-
B. 
Central Project Office
1. 
The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain, throughout implementation
of the Project, a Central Project Office (CPO), with a mandate, composition and
resources satisfactory to the Bank.
2. 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph I of this Part B, the CPO shall:
(a) be headed by a national project manager, and staffed by a core group of
technical staff . from DAR; and (b) be responsible for the day-to-day
implementation, coordination and supervision of Project implementation,
procurement, financial management and monitoring and evaluation, including
inter alia: (i) preparation of the overall and annual implementation plans and Work
and Financial Plans; (ii) enforcement of compliance with the Project Operations
Manual (POM) among various agencies involved in implementation; (iii)
coordination with partner agencies involved in implementation and selection and
engagement of service providers; and (iv) serving as the secretariat for the PMB.
C. 
Regional Project Offices
1. 
The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain, throughout implementation
of the Project, Regional Project Offices (RPOs), in each of the Regions covered by
the Project, with a mandate, composition and resources satisfactory to the Bank.
2. 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph I of this Part C, each RPO shall:
(a) be headed by the DAR Regional Director, designated as regional project
-8-
manager and supported by DAR staff; and (b) be responsible for inter alia,
(i) coordination with regional counterparts involved in Project implementation;
(ii) regular reporting on Project progress to the CPO; and (iii) serving as the
technical secretariat for its Regional Grant Management Unit.
D. 
Provincial Project.Offices
1. 
The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain, throughout implementation
of the Project, Provincial Project Offices (PPOs), in each of the Provinces covered
by the Project, with a mandate, composition and resources satisfactory to the Bank.
2. 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part D, each PPO shall:
(a) be headed by the DAR Provincial Agrarian Reform Program Officer,
designated as provincial project manager and supported by DAR staff; and (b) be
responsible for oversight and implementation of project activities within its
Targeted ARC Clusters.
E. 
Matching Grants Oversight
1. 
The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain, throughout implementation
of the Project, a National Grant Committee (NGC), as well as Regional Grants
Committees (RGCs) in each of the Regions covered by the Project, all with a
mandate, composition and resources satisfactory to the Bank.
2. 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph I of this Part E, the National
Grant Committee shall be: (a) chairedby the Project Implementation Officer of the
DAR's Foreign Assisted and Special Projects Office, with members from relevant
government line departments and the private sector; and (b) responsible for overall
policy and strategic direction of the Matching Grants program and review and
approval of such proposals for Matching Grants under the Large Grants Window
further described in the Project Operations Manual.
3. 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph I of this Part E, the Regional
Grants Committees shall be: (a) chaired by the DAR Regional Director and
composed of government and private sector members; and (b) responsible for
review and approval of proposals for such proposals for Matching Grants under
the Small Grants Window further described in the Project Operations Manual.
4. 
The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain, throughout implementation
of the Project, a Central Grant Management Unit and Regional Grant Management
Units in each of the Regions covered by the Project, all with a mandate,
composition and resources satisfactory to the Bank.
5. 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph 4 of this Part E: (a) the Central
Grant Management Unit shall provide overall management of Matching Grants at
the national level, including monitoring and reporting, provide technical guidance
and training to regional and provincial staff, and act as a secretariat to the NGC;
(b) the Regional Grant Management Units: (i) shall be responsible for organization
of calls for proposal, presentations on the Matching Grants program, receiving and
registering applications, screening applications for compliance with budgetary and
documentary requirements, record-keeping, and monitoring and evaluation of
completed Matching Grants at the Regional level; and (ii) shall each include a
matching grants officer and assistant.
F. 
Project Operations Manual (POM)
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the arrangements and
procedures set out in the POM (provided, however, that in case of any conflict
between the armangements and procedures set out in the POM and the provisions
of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail), and shall not
amend, abrogate or waive the POM or any of its provisions without prior approval
in writing by the Bank.
G. 
Rural Infrastructure Sub-projects
1. 
For the purpose of carrying out Part 1 (c)(i) of the Project, the Borrower, through
DAR, shall make parts of the Loan proceeds available on a grant basis (a "Sub-
project Grant") to Local Government Units or LGUs (each a "Selected LGU") for
the financing of sub-projects (each, a "Sub-project") selected in accordance with
procedures set forth in the POM and in the Environment and Social Management
Framework (ESMF), said Sub-project not to include any activities and
expenditures on the negative list set forth in the ESMF, which negative list shall
include Sub-projects which involve Large Dams or Significant Conversion or
Degradation of Critical Natural Habitats.
2. 
For the purpose of carrying out Part 1(c)(i) of the Project, the Borrower shall enter
into a Sub-project Agreement with each Selected LGU on terms and conditions
approved by the Bank, which shall include the following:
(a) 
the Borrower shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and those
of the Bank, including the right to suspend or terminate the right of the
Selected LGUs to use the proceeds of the Sub-project Grant, or obtain a
refund of all or any part of the amount of the Sub-project Grant, upon the
Selected LGU's failure to perform any of its obligations under the Sub-
project Grant Agreement; and
(b) 
the Borrower shall require each Selected LGU to: (A) carry out its Sub-
project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound
technical, economic, financial, managerial, environmental and social
standards and practices satisfactory to the Bank, and in accordance with
- 10 -
the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients
of loan proceeds other than the Borrower and the Safeguard Documents;
(B) without prejudice to Section I.G.2(b)(A) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement immediately above, prepare an Environment and Social
Management Plan or ESMP (including pest management plan as
applicable) in accordance with the ESMF, in the event that the
environmental and social screening carried out in accordance with said
framework concludes that such plan is required, (C) prepare a
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) in accordance with the Resettlement
Policy Framework (RPF), in the event the Sub-project creates a Displaced
Person or Persons; (D) carry out consultations and a process of informed
participation with indigenous peoples, in accordance with the Indigenous
Peoples Development Framework (IPDF), and prepare an Indigenous
Peoples Plan (IPP) in the event that the Sub-project impacts or may impact
such peoples, to ensure that the design and implementation of the Sub-
project adequately addresses the needs and cultural preferences of such
peoples; (E) require that, where applicable, the Selected LGU implements
the ESMP (including pest management plan as applicable), the RAP and
the IPP, as applicable, in accordance with the ESMF, the IPDF and the
RPF, respectively and provide, promptly as needed, the resources required
for the purpose; (F) have in place prior to approval of an Sub-project Grant
and, thereafter maintain, staff in sufficient numbers and with qualifications
and resources sufficient to carry out the Sub-project, as set forth in the
POM and this Agreement; (G) procure the goods, works and services to
be financed out of the Sub-project Grant in accordance with the provisions
of Section III of Schedule 2 of this Agreement; (H) maintain policies and
procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate in accordance
with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the progress of the Sub-project and
the achievement of its objectives; (1) (1) maintain a financial management
system and prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently
applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to
the Sub-project; and (2) at the Bank's or the Borrower's request, have such
financial statements audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards
acceptable to the Bank, and promptly furnish the statements as so audited
to the Borrower and the Bank, (J) enable the Borrower and the Bank to
inspect the Sub-project, its operation and any relevant records and
documents; (K) prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such
information as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably request relating
to the foregoing; and (L) complete all Sub-project activities and submit all
relevant financial management documentation prior to the Closing Date,
and in the event that Sub-project activities are not completed by the
Closing Date, to refund any unused and unaccounted for Sub-project Grant
funds to the Borrower.
-1l-
3. 
The Borrower, through the DAR, shall exercise its rights under each Sub-project
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Sub-project
Agreement or any of its provisions.
4. 
For the purpose of carrying out Part 1(c)(iii) of the Project, the Borrower, through
DAR, shall enter into a Memorandum of Agreement, with the Borrower's National
Irrigation Administration ("NIA") (for communal and small scale irrigation
systems under Part I (c)(iii) of the Project), on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank, which shall include the following:
(a) 
NIA shall implement the Project in accordance with the provisions of this
Agreement, including the POM, the ESMF, the RPF, and the IPDF.
(b) 
For each activity to be implemented under Part I (c)(iii) of the Project, NIA
shall prepare the design and program of works, including a detailed budget
(setting 
out the 
flow of funds), implementation and reporting
arrangements, to be submitted to DAR for approval.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section IV of this Schedule 2, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Memorandum of Agreement with the NIA is signed and effective prior
to submitting any withdrawal applications to the Bank for proceeds of the Loan to be
used to finance activities under Part I(c)(iii) of the Project.
H. 
Matching Grant Sub-projects
For the purposes of carrying out Part 2 of the Project, the Borrower shall select
Matching Grant Sub-projects and provide Matching Grants to Eligible Farmers'
Organizations in accordance with eligibility criteria and procedures set forth in the
POM and the ESMF, and acceptable to the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower shall make each Matching Grant under a Matching Grant Agreement
with the respective Eligible Farmers' Organization on terms and conditions
approved by the Bank and further detailed in the POM, which shall include the
following:
(a) 
Matching Grant Agreements shall be provided on a cost-sharing basis,
with Eligible Famers' Organizations providing a percentage of the cost of
the Matching Grant Sub-project specified in the POM;
(b) 
the Borrower shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and those
of the Bank, including the right to suspend or terminate the right of the
Eligible Farmers' Organization to use the proceeds of the Matching Grant,
or obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount of the Matching Grant,
- 12 -
upon the Eligible Farmers' Organization's failure to perform any of its
obligations under the Matching Grant Agreement; and
(c) 
the Borrower shall require each Eligible Farmers' Organization to: (A)
carry out its Matching Grant Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with sound technical, economic, financial, managerial,
environmental and social standards and practices satisfactory to the Bank,
and in accordance with the provisions. of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines
applicable to recipients of loan proceeds other than the Borrower and the
Safeguard Documents; (B) have in place prior to approval of a Matching
Grant and, thereafter maintain, staff in sufficient numbers and with
qualifications and resources sufficient to carry out the Matching Grant
Sub-project, as set forth in the POM or this Agreement; (C) procure the
goods, works and services to be financed out of the Matching Grant in
accordance with the provisions of Section IR of Schedule 2 of this
Agreement; (D) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, .
the progress of the Matching Grant Sub-project and the achievement of its
objectives; (E) (1) maintain a financial management system and prepare
financial statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting
standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect the
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Matching Grant Sub-
project and (2) at the Bank's or the Borrower's request, have such
financial statements audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards
acceptable to the Bank, and promptly furnish the statements as so audited
to the Borrower and the Bank; (F) enable the Borrower and the Bank to
inspect the Matching Grant Sub-project, its operation and any relevant
records and documents; (G) prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the
Bank all such information as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably
request relating to the foregoing; and (H) complete all Matching Grant
Sub-project activities and submit all relevant financial management
documentation prior to the Closing Date, and in the event that Matching
Grant Sub-project activities are not completed by the Closing Date, to
refund any unused and unaccounted for Matching Grant funds to the
Borrower.
3. 
The Borrower, through DAR, shall exercise its rights under each Matching Grant
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, -the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Matching
Grant Agreement or any of its-provisions.
- 13 -
L. 
Annual Work and Financial Plans
1 -
The Borrower, through the DAR, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank for its
approval, not later than November 15 of each year during the implementation of
the Project, a Work and Financial Plan containing all eligible Project activities and
expenditures planned for the following fiscal year of the Borrower and their
respective source of financing (i.e., Loan or counterpart funds) and ensure that the
Project is implemented in accordance with each such annual Work and Financial
Plan; provided, however, that in case of any conflict between the Work and Project
Financial Plans and the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this
Agreement shall prevail.
2. 
The Borrower shall not make or allow to be made any change to the approved
Work and Financial Plans in respect of the proceeds of the Loan without prior
approval in writing by the Bank.
J. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
K. 
Environmental and Social Safeguards Management
1I 
The Borrower shall ensure that all terms of reference for any technical assistance
or studies carried out under the Project are consistent with, and pay due attention
to, the Bank Policies, as well as the Borrower's own laws relating to the
environment and social aspects.
2. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project shall be implemented in
accordance with the guidelines, procedures, timetables and other
specifications set forth in the Safeguard Documents.
(b) 
Without limitation to the generality of sub-paragraph (a) immediately
above, the Borrower shall ensure that:
(i) 
for each activity under the Project of a type for which the
Environmental and Social Management Framework provides that
an Environmental and Social Management Plan should be
prepared, such Environmental and Social Management Plan, in
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, is effectively
prepared and locally disclosed, before the implementation of such
activity, in accordance with the provisions of the Environmental
and Social Management Framework, and the relevant activity is
implemented in accordance with its Environmental and Social*
Management Plan; and
-14-
(ii) 
for each activity under the Project of a type for- which the
Resettlement Policy Framework provides that a Resettlement
Action Plan should be prepared, such Resettlement Action Plan,
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, is effectively
prepared and locally disclosed, before the implementation of such
activity, in accordance with the provisions of the Resettlement
Policy Framework, and the relevant activity is implemented in
accordance with its Resettlement Action Plan.
3. 
(a) 
Without limitation to the generality of the foregoing provisions in
subparagraph (2)(a) immediately above, the Borrower shall ensure that
each contract for civil works under the Project includes the obligation of
the relevant contractor to comply with the relevant Safeguard Documents
applicable to such civil works commissioned/awarded pursuant to said
contract.
(b) 
Without limitation to the generality of the foregoing provisions in
subparagraph (a) immediately above, the Borrower shall ensure, prior to
commencing any works under the Project, that: (i) all necessary
governmental permits and clearances for such civil works shall have been
obtained from the competent governmental authority/ies; (ii) all pre-,
construction conditions imposed by the governmental authority/ies under
such permit(s) or clearance(s) shall have been complied with/fulfilled-, and
(iii) all resettlement measures for the respective civil works set forth in the
applicable Resettlement Action Plan shall be fully executed, 
in
accordance with the Resettlement Policy Framework and/or the applicable
Resettlement Action Plan.
(c) 
Without limitation to the generality of the foregoing provisions in
subparagraph (2)(a) immediately above, the Borrower shall ensure no
activity financed under the Project includes Large Dams or results in
Significant Conversion or Degradation of Critical Natural Habitats.
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the following expenditures for the Project are
financed exclusively out of resources other than the Loan, and, to this end, shall
provide, as promptly as needed, the resources required therefor, namely.
(a) 
all land acquisition required for the purpose of the Project, if any; and
(b) 
any compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation payment to Displaced
Persons in accordance with the provision of the Resettlement ActionPlans.
5. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing and subject to compliance with
applicable consultation and public disclosure requirements of the Bank, the
Borrower shall not abrogate, amend, repeal, suspend or waive any provisions of
-15-
any of the Safeguard Documents, nor shall it permit any entity participating in the
implementation of the Project to do so.
6. 
Without limitation upon its other reporting obligations under this Agreement, the
Borrower shall regularly collect, compile and submit to the Bank, on a quarterly
basis, reports on the status of compliance with the Safeguard Documents, giving
details of: (a) measures taken in furtherance of the Safeguard Documents;
(b) conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the smooth
implementation of the Safeguard Documents; and (c) remedial measures taken or
required to be taken to address such conditions.
7. 
In the event that any provision of the Safeguard Documents shall conflict with any
provision under the Loan Agreement, the terms of the Loan Agreement shall
prevail.
L. 
Counterpart Funds
1 .
The Borrower shall finance infrastructure investments such as farms to market
roads and bridges under Part 1(c) and other activities as reflected in each Annual
Work and Financial Plans approved by the Bank.
Section I. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1 .
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank and set out in the
POM. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than sixty (60) days after the end of the
period covered by such report.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions in paragraph A. I of this Section II above, the
Borrower shall:
(a) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to
the Bank, no later than twenty-nine (29) months after the Effective Date,
or such other date agreed between the Bank and the Borrower, a mid-term
evaluation report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation
activities performed pursuant to paragraph I of this Part A, on the progress
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
-16-
(b) 
review with the Bank, no later than thirty (30) months after the Effective
Date, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in
sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 2, and, thereafter, take all measures
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and
recommendations of the said report and the Bank's views on the matter.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than sixty
(60) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports
for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than six months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1 .
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions Qf this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections 1I and m of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, 111, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
-17-
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive
Bidding subject to the additional provisions set forth in paragraph 3 of this Part B;
(b) Shopping; (c) Direct Contracting; and (d) Community Participation procedures,
described in the POM, which have been found acceptable to the Bank.
3. 
Additional National Competitive Bidding Provisions. The procedures to be
followed for the procurement of goods, works, and non-consulting services under
contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding shall be those set
forth in the Borrower's national procurement law (Republic Act No. 9184), subject
to the provisions of Section I and Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the "Guidelines for
Procurement of Goods, Works, and Non-Consulting Services under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits & Grants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 and
revised July 2014 ("the Procurement Guidelines") and the following provisions:
(a) 
eligibility screening shall not be applied, provided however that bids that
do not contain any of the following documents shall not pass the
documentary compliance check:
(i) 
evidence of the required financial, technical or production
capability;
(ii) 
audited financial statements;
(iii) 
credit line or cash deposit certificate;
(iv) 
bid security; and
(v) 
authority of the bid signatory;
(b) 
a ceiling may be applied to bid prices provided the following conditions
are met:
(i) 
bidding documents are obtainable free of charge on a freely
accessible website;
- 18 -
(ii) 
the agency has procedures in place to ensure that the Approved
Budget for Contract (ABC) is based on Engineer's Estimate;
(iii) 
the agency has trained cost estimators on estimating prices and
analyzing bid variance; and
(iv) 
the agency has established a system to monitor and report bid
prices relative to ABC and Engineer's Estimate;
(c) 
'domestic or regional preferences shall not be applied in the evaluation of
bids, and other preference in.effect in the Philippines shall not be used
except with prior concurrence of the Bank;
(d) 
foreign suppliers and contractors shall be allowed to participate, if
interested, without first being required to associate with, or enter into joint
venture, with local firms, and foreign bidders shall be allowed to bid, even
without registration, licensing, and other government authorizations,
leaving these requirements for after award and before signing of contract;
(e) 
alternative procurement methods defined in the implementing rules and
regulations such as Limited Source Bidding, Direct Contracting and
Shopping as acceptable, and the use of the other alternative methods shall
require prior Bank concurrence; and
(f) 
the e-bulletin board, e-catalogue of prices, subscriber's registry and e-
payments features of the Borrower's government electronic procurement
system (PhilGEPS) may be used with prior Bank concurrence as described
in the POM.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Least Cost Selection; (c)
Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications; (d) Single-source Selection of
consulting finns; (e) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the
Consultant Guidelines for the Selectionof Individual Consultants; and (f) Single-
source procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants.
-19-
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article U of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Investment Project Financing, dated
February 2017", as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable
to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures
as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
Financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non-
consulting services,
consultants' services,
Training, and Incremental 
57,064,628 
100%
Operating Costs for the
Project (excluding Part
1(c)(ii) of the Project)
(2) Matching Grants under
Par2otheProec 
42,000,000 
100% of amount disbursed
(3) Front-end Fee 
Amount payable pursuant
248,282 
to Section 2.03 of this
'Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
-20-
(4) Interest Rate Cap or 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar 
0 
Section 2.08(c) of this
premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
99,312,910
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the.date of this Agreement; or
(b) 
under Category 2 until the Borrower has established the NGC, the RGC,
the CGMU and the RGMUs, in accordance with the provisions of Sections
I.E of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2022.
.
-21-
SCKEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Priicipal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying; (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each June 15 and December 15
Beginning June 15, 2027 
3.33%
through June 15, 2041
On December 15, 2041 
3.43%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
- 22 -
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer,apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so detennines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
- 23 -
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"ABC" means the approved budget for the contract, as defined in Section 5(a) of
the Borrower's Implementing Rules and Regulations of Government Procurement
Reform Act (GRPA), Republic Act No 9184.
2. 
"Agrarian Reform Community" and "ARC" mean a Barangay, or groups of
Barangays within a municipality, or a group of municipalities, which has been
declared an "Agrarian Reform Community" by DAR pursuant to the Republic Act
6657 of June 10, 1988, as amended from time to time.
3. 
"ARC Cluster" means two or more ARCs and non-ARC Barangays following
DAR Memorandum Circular No. 13, series of 2009.
4. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
5. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
6. 
"Central Grant Management Unit" or "CGMU' means the unit to be established
in accordance with the provisions of Section I.E.4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
7. 
"Central Project Office" or "CPO" means the office to'be established in accordance
with the provisions of Section I.B. I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
8. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
9. 
"Critical Natural Habitats" means: (a) existing protected areas and areas officially
proposed by the Borrower as protected areas (e.g., reserves that meet the criteria
of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) classification),
areas initially recognized as protected by traditional local communities (e.g.,
sacred groves), and sites that maintain conditions vital for the viability of these
protected areas (as determined by the ESMF and ESMPs); or (b) sites identified
on supplementary lists prepared by the Bank.
10. 
"DAR" means the Borrower's Department of Agrarian Reform, or any successor
or successors thereto.
-24-
11. 
"Degradation" means the modification of a Critical Natural Habitat that
substantially reduces such habitat's ability to maintain viable populations of its
native species.
12. 
"Displaced Person" means a person who, on' account of the execution of the
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (A) relocation or loss of
shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; or
(ii) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected
areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person, and
"Displaced Persons" means more than one such Displaced Person.
13. 
"DPWH" means the Borrower's Department of Public Works and Highways, or
any successor or successors thereto.
14. 
"Eligible Farmers' Organization" means, as the case may be: (a) a farmers'
organization or a cooperative, in each case duly registered as such under the laws
of the Borrower, which submits a proposal to carry out a set of activities; or (b) a
federation or network of farmers' organizations or cooperatives in each case duly
registered as such under the laws of the Borrower, which submits a proposal to
carry out a set of activities meeting the eligibility criteria as further described in
the POM.
15. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" and "ESMF" each means
the environmental and social management framework, for the Project, dated
September 2015, prepared and adopted by the Borrower which sets forth: (a)
policies and procedures for the preparation of site-specific ESMPs (including pest
management plans); (b) screening criteria for impacts on natural habitats and
measures to address such impacts; (c) chance find provisions; (d) a negative list
for the financing of Sub-projects; and (e) the mitigating, monitoring and
institutional measures to be taken during the implementation and operation of the
Project to offset or reduce potential adverse environmental and social impacts to
levels acceptable to the Bank.
16. 
"Environmental and Social Management Plan" and "ESMP" each means a site-
specific environmental and social management plan, prepared by the Borrower in
accordance with the provisions of the Environmental and Social Management
Framework, defining details of measures to manage potential environmental and
social risks and mitigate, reduce and/or offset adverse environmental and social
impacts associated with the implementation of activities under the Project, together
with adequate institutional, monitoring and reporting arrangements capable of
ensuring proper implementation of, and regular feedback on compliance with, its
terms, and including a pest management plan, as the same may be amended and
- 25 -
supplemented from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank; and
"ESMPs" refers to more than one such ESMP.
17. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
18. 
"Incremental 
Operating Costs" means the reasonable, incremental 
and
documented expenditures incurred by DAR, DPWH, NIA and LGUs for hiring of
contractual personnel (but excluding staff salaries); and includes travel, per diem,
accommodation, office utilities, materials and supplies (not covered under the
category of goods in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement),
vehicles and equipment (not covered under the category of Goods in the table in
Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 5 to this Agreement), and advertising expenses (not
covered under the category of consulting services in the table in Section IV.A.2 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement); for purposes of implementing the Project and
which expenditures would not have been incurred absent the Project.
19. 
"Indigenous Peoples" means those social groups in the Borrower's territory that
have a distinct, vulnerable, social and cultural identity, and that possess the
following characteristics in varying degreest (a) self-identification as members of
a distinct indigenous cultural group and recognition of this identity by others; (b)
collective attachment to geographically distinct habitats or ancestral territories in
the Project area and to the natural resources in these habitats and territories; (c)
customary cultural, economic, social, or political institutions that are separate from
those of the dominant society and culture; and (d) an indigenous language.
20. 
"Indigenous Peoples Development Framework" or "IPDF" means the document
prepared and adopted by the Borrower dated September 2015, setting forth
guidelines for preparation of an Indigenous Peoples Development Plans, measures
for addressing the needs of the indigenous peoples, and providing guidelines and
procedures for consultation with and informed participation of Indigenous Peoples
residing in or with collective attachment to areas under the Project.
21. 
"Indigenous Peoples Plan" or "IPP" means a plan prepared by the Borrower,
through its DAR, or an Eligible Farmers' Organization, in accordance with the
IPDF and the Bank's policy on indigenous peoples, setting forth, inter alia, a
summary of the social assessment undertaken to determine whether indigenous
people are present in or have collective attachment to the Project area, a summary
of the results of the free, prior, and infonned consultation with the affected
indigenous peoples' communities, a framework for ensuring free, prior, and
informed consultation with the affected indigenous peoples' communities, an
action plan of measures to avoid, minimize, mitigate, or compensate for adverse
effects on affected indigenous people, cost estimates and financing, grievance
mechanisms and mechanisms and benchmarks appropriate to the Project for
- 26-
monitoring, evaluating, and reporting on the implementation of the IPDF; and
"IPPs" means more than one such IPP.
22. 
"Integrated Pest Management Framework" and "IPMF" mean the framework
prepared and adopted by the Borrower, and included in the ESMF.
23. 
"Large Dam" means: (a) a dam that is fifteen (15) meters or more in height; (b) a
dam that is between ten (10) and fifteen (15) meters in height which presents
special design complexities; or (c) a dam that is under ten (10) meters in height but
is expected to become a large dam within the meaning of (a) or (b) during the
implementation of the Project.
24. 
"Large Grants Window" means the category of Matching Grants where Matching
Grants have a value greater than the minimum value defined in the Project
Operations Manual, as referred to in Section 1.E.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
25. 
"Local Government Units" and "LGUs" mean the political subdivisions of the
Borrower at the provincial, city, municipal or Barangay level; and "LGU" means
any one of such LGUs.
26. 
"Matching Grant" means a grant made available by the Borrower to finance the
reasonable costs of goods, works, and services required for a Sub-project under
Part 2 of the Project; and "Matching Grants" means more than one Matching Grant.
27. 
"Matching Grant Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between an
Eligible Farmers' Organization and the Borrower, through DAR, pursuant to
Section I.H of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, for purposes of implementing Sub-
projects.
28. 
"Matching Grant Sub-project" means a specific development activity or activities
which has or have been selected to receive a Matching Grant under Part 2 of the
Project.
29. 
"Memorandum of Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between
DAR and NIA pursuant to Section I.G.4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement for
purposes of implementing activities under Part I (c)(iii) of the Project.
30. 
"National Grant Committee" or "NGC" means the committee to be established by
the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of Section I.E. 1 of Schedule 2 of
this Agreement.
31. 
"NIA" means the Borrower's National Irrigation Administration created under the
Borrower's Republic Act 3601 dated 22 June 1963 and any successor or successors
thereto.
-27-
32. 
"Pest Management Plan" and "PMP" mean a site-specific pest management plan
prepared by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of the IPMF, defining
details of measures to manage potential pest related risks.
33. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
34. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
February 14, 2017 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines
and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
35. 
"Project Management Board" or "PMB" means the board to be established by the
Borrower in accordance with the provisions of Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
36. 
"Project Operations Manual" means the Borrower's manual referred to in Section
LF of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, dated February 14, 2017, as such manual may
be revised from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section I.F of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, containing detailed arrangements and procedures
for institutional coordination and day-to-day execution of ihe Project, including
Project budgeting, disbursement and financial management, procurement,
environmental and social management, monitoring, evaluation, reporting and
communication, eligibility criteria and implementation arrangements for Sub-
projects, and specifically including: (a) an implementation manual for Part I of the
Project; (b) guidelines for Part 2 of the Project; (c) a procurement manual; and (d) a
financial management manual, as required for the Project.
37. 
"Province" means any of the eighty-one (81) primary political and administrative
divisions of the Borrower, and "Provinces" means any two or more of said
provinces.
38. 
"Provincial Project Office" or "PPO" means an office to be established by the
Borrower in accordance with the provisions of Section I.D.1 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement; and PPOs means more than one such PPO.
39. 
"Region" means any of the seventeen (17) regions in the territory of the Borrower
that serve primarily to organize the Provinces for administrative convenience, and
"Regions" means any two or more regions.
40. 
"Regional Grant Committee" or "RGC" means any of the committees to be
established by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of Section I.E. I of
Schedule 2 of this Agreement.
- 28 -
41. 
"Regional Grant Management Unit" or "RGMU" means any of the grant
management units to be established by the Borrower in accordance with the
provisions of Section I.E.4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
42. 
"Regional Project Office" or "RPO" means an office to be established, by the
Borrower in accordance with the provisions of Section I.C. I of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement; and RPOs means more than one such RPO.
43. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the framework prepared and
adopted by the Borrower, dated September 2015, which sets out the criteria and
procedures, including organizational arrangements and budget for: (a) the
involuntary taking of land and other assets from Displaced Persons;
(b) resettlement and rehabilitation of and compensation to, Displaced Persons; and
(c) reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with such
framework.
44. 
"Safeguard Documents" means, collectively, the ESMF, the IPDF and the RPF,
and any ESMPs, IPPs, PMPs and RAPs.
45. 
"Safeguard Policies" means, to the extent that they are applicable to the Project
activities, the operational policies and procedures OP/BP 4.01 (Environmental
Assessment), OP/BP 4.04 (Natural Habitats), OP/BP 4.07 (Water Resources
Management), OP/BP 4.09 (Pest Management), OP/BP 4.10 (Indigenous Peoples),
OPIBP 
4.11 
(Physical 
Cultural Resources), 
OP/BP 
4.12 
(Involuntary
Resettlement), OP/BP 4.36 (Forests), and OP/BP 4.37 (Safety of Dams) contained
in the Bank's Operational Manual which can be found on the Bank's website at
www.worldbank.org.
46. 
"Selected LGU" means an LGU in a Targeted ARC Cluster that has been selected
to carry out Rural Infrastructure Sub-projects under Part 1(c) of the Project and has
entered into an Infrastructure Sub-project Agreement pursuant to Section I.G. of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
47. 
"Significant Conversion" means the elimination or severe diminution of the
integrity of a Critical Natural Habitat caused by a major, long-term change in land
or water use.
48. 
"Small Grants Window" means the category of Matching Grants where the
Matching Grants have a value of less than the maximum defined in the Project
Operations Manual, as referred to in Section 1.E.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
49. 
"Sub-project Agreement" means an agreement between the Borrower through
DAR and an LGU for the purpose of carrying out one or more Sub-projects under
Part 1 (c)(i) of the Project:
-29-
50. 
"Sub-project Grant" means a grant made by the Borrower to a participating LGU
under a Sub-project Agreement for the purpose of carrying out one or more Sub-
projects under Part 1 (c)(i) of the Project and "Sub-project Grants" means more
than one such grant.
51. 
"Sub-project" means a sub-project eligible for financing under Part 1 (c)(i) of the
Project.
52. 
"Targeted Agrarian Reform Community Cluster" or "Targeted ARC Cluster"
means any ARC Cluster that has been identified as a priority cluster according to
eligibility criteria and procedures described in the Project Operations Manual.
53. 
"Training" means the reasonable costs of goods and services required for the
participation of personnel involved in training activities, workshops or study tours
under the Project, including travel and subsistence costs for training, workshop and
study tour participants, costs associated with securing the services of trainers,
rental of training and workshop facilities, preparation and reproduction of training
and workshop materials, and other costs directly related to training course,
workshop or study tour preparation and implementation, but excluding salaries of
consultants.
54. 
"Work and Financial Plan" means the annual work plan, together with the related
budget, for the Project, approved by the Bank, pursuant to the provisions of Section
1.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and "Work and Financial Plans" means more
than one "Work and Financial Plan".
Section I. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1 .
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge'). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. 
The
-30-
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references. to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The, Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any
prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of
a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable
upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any
Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
