"O 
Q) 
N 
·;:: 
0 ..c 
:i 
~ 
~ 
:::J 
en 
0 
13 
en 
0 
-~ 
J5 
:::J 
a.. 
"O 
Q) 
N 
·;:: 
0 
..c -
:::J 
~ 
~ 
:::J 
en 
0 
13 
en 
0 
-~ 
J5 
:::J 
a.. 
OFFICIAL 
DDGLJMENTS 
LOAN NUMBER 8905-CN 
Loan Agreement 
(Anhui Rural Road Resilience Program for Results) 
between 
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 890>CN 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF 
CHINA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank''). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01 . 
The General Conditions ( as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form 
part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II -
LOAN 
2.01 . 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred million Dollars ($200,000,000), as such 
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion ("Loan"), to 
assist in financing the program described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (''Program"). 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited 
by µie Bank into an account specified by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the 
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance. 
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread; or such rate as may apply 
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions. 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 1 and September l in each year. 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization 
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
- 2 -
2.08. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit 
(as said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(ili) of this Section), the 
Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of one half of one percent (0.5%) 
per annum of the Allocated Excess Exposure Amount ( as defined in sub-paragraph (b )(i) 
of this Section) for each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if any) 
shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date. 
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set forth below: 
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during which 
the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit, the product of: 
(A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the ratio of all ( or, if the Bank 
so determines, a portion) of the Loan to the aggregate amount of all (or the 
equivalent portions) of the loans made by the Bank to the Borrower and to 
other borrowers guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an 
exposur.e surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined 
from time to time by the Bank. 
(ii) 
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the 
Bank's financial 
exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded, 
would subject the Loan to the 
Exposure Surcharge, as determined from 
time to time by the Bank. 
(iii) 
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total 
financial exposure to 
the Borrower, as reasonably determined by the 
Bank. 
ARTICLE ID- PROGRAM 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Program. To this end, the 
Borrower shall cause the Program to be carried out by the Program Implementing Entity 
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the Program 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement. 
- 3 -
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance. 
5.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower's address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
Sanlihe 
Xicheng D.istrict 
Beijing 100820 
People's Republic of China 
(b) the Borrower's Electronic Address is: 
Facsimile: 
(86-10) 6855-2077 
5.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank's address is: 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America; and 
(b) the Bank's Electronic Address is: 
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
248423(MCI) or l-202-477-6391 
64145(MCI) 
-4-
AGREED as of the Signature Date. 
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
By 
Authorized Representative 
\\ 
Name: A__)c:•'4r;lA -:--11 I I 
I 
\ 
I 
{)~ .... n, £),~ ~--( 
Title/'~&:. -t p..-s~--c. ~ 
. 
~~ '°.l. ./ u~"-- ~~-. .i 
D t . 
' ' 
. &/- ~· 
a e. A..(,,~ """7 
p11t 1 ., <· 
~, 
-
£>~-,. ..l-<I; ,. ;u, 1S-. 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
By 
- 5 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Program Description 
The objective of the Program is to improve the rural road network connectivity, safety, 
quality, and its management in the Participating Counties of Anhui Province. 
The Program consists of the following activities: 
A. 
Smooth Traffic Program and Natural Village Road Program 
1. 
Upgrading, reconstruction and pavement improvement, of selected county and township 
roads. 
2. 
Widening and/or paving of selected village roads. 
B. 
Safe Road Program 
1. 
Improvement of rural road signs, markings, installation of guardrail and roadside hazard 
management, as well as other safety facilities. 
C. 
Damaged Bridge Improvement Program 
1. 
Improvement and/or reparation of rural bridge assets, including dual carriageway bridges. 
D. 
Road Maintenance Program 
1. 
Maintenance of rural roads including routine, minor and periodic maintenance, as well as 
rehabilitation and improvement. 
E. 
Institutional Capacity Building Program 
1. 
Supporting the reform of county-level transport bureaus and related government 
institutions involved in road management at the municipal and county levels. 
2. 
Provision of technical assistance and training on Program-related activities including, inter 
alia, on asset management, carrying out of impact analysis' activities, and monitoring and 
evaluation. 
- 6 -
SCHEDULE2 
Program Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
A. 
Program Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
1. 
Financing Arrangements 
For the purposes of carrying out of the Program, the Borrower shall make available the 
proceeds of the Loan to the Program Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Bank, including the following principal terms: 
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars or any other Currency as 
the Loan may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion of 
the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn (such principal amount 
determined on the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account). 
(b) 
The principal amount so made available shall be recovered over a period of twenty 
(20) years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years. 
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and outstanding 
from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest applicable from time to time 
to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2J>5 of this Agreement. 
(d) 
A Commitment Charge shall be charged equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance. 
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Program Implementing Entity, to: (a) manage, operate, 
monitor, transfer and reconcile the proceeds of the Loan made available to them pursuant 
to paragraph 1 above in accordance with arrangements and procedures acceptable to the 
Bank; (b) take all required actions, including provision of timely consents and approvals 
as may be necessary, to facilitate the utilization of said Loan proceeds and the 
implementation of the Program and, to enable the Program Implementing Entity to comply 
with their undertakings under the Program Agreement; and (c) maintain all relevant 
records and documents related to the Loan and the Program and provide promptly such 
documents and records, including all other information, as may be requested by the 
Borrower or the Bank from time to time. 
- 7 -
3. 
Program Action Plan 
The Borrower shall take, and shall cause the Program Implementing Entity to take, all 
measures necessary to comply with, or all measures necessary to enable the Program 
Implementing Entity to comply with, the provisions of Section I.B.2 of the Schedule to the 
Program Agreement. 
Section II. 
Excluded Activities 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Program excludes any activities which: 
A. 
in the opinion of the Bank, are likely to have significant adverse impacts that are sensitive, 
diverse, or unprecedented on the environment and/or affected people; or 
B. 
involve the procurement of: (1) works, estimated to cost US$ 115 million equivalent or 
more 
per contract; (2) goods, estimated to cost US$ 75 million equivalent or more per contract; 
(3) non-consulting services, estimated to cost US$ 60 million equivalent or more per 
contract; or (4) consultants' services, estimated to cost US$ 30 million equivalent or more 
per contract. 
Section ill. 
Program Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation; Audits 
The Borrower shall cause the Program Implementing Entity to furnish to the Bank each 
Program Report not later than sixty (60) days after the end of each calendar semester, 
covering the calendar semester. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
A. 
General 
1. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in 
accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may 
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to finance Program Expenditures, on the basis of the 
results ("Disbursement Linked Results" or "DLRs") achieved by the Program 
Implementing Entity, as measured against specific indicators ("Disbursement Linked 
Indicators" or "DLls"); all as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 of this Part A. 
- 8 -
2. 
The following table specifies each category of withdrawal of the proceeds of the Loan (including 
the Disbursement Linked Indicators as applicable) ("Category''), the Disbursement Linked Results 
for each Category (as applicable), and the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each 
Category: 
Category 
Disbursement Linked 
Amount of 
Disbursement 
(including Disbursement 
Result (as applicable) 
the Loan 
Calculation 
Linked Indicator as 
Allocated 
Formula (as 
applicable) 
(expressed 
applicable) 
in USD) 
(1) 
DLI #1: Number of 
DLR #l : 
79,722,600 
DLR # !: $15,900 
kilometers of rural roads 
5,014 km 
per kilometer 
improved with Resilience 
and Safety Features under 
the Program 
(2) 
DLI #2.1: Number 
DLR#2.l : 
35,596,000 
DLR #2. l : $4,000 
of meters of bridge 
8,899 meters 
per meter 
reinforced, demolished 
and/or reconstructed with 
Resilience and Safety 
Features under the Program 
(3) 
DLI #2.2: Number 
DLR#2.2: 
74,681 ,400 
DLR#2.2: 
of kilometers of rural roads 
maintained per FY with 
FY Targets: 
Actual 
Resilience and Safety 
Achievement of the 
Features under the Program 
FY19: 13,720 km 
year I FY Target x 
FY20: 16,771 km 
Allocation per FY 
FY2I : 19,566 km 
FY22: 22,360 km 
Minimum DLR: 60% 
(4) 
DLI #3: Number of 
DLR#3: 
10,000,000 
DLR#3: 
Participating Counties that 
10 Participating Counties 
$1,000,000 per 
have incorporated the Three 
Participating 
Excellence Criteria into their 
County 
annual performance 
assessment, as conducted by 
the corresponding 
municipality 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
200,000,000 
- 9 -
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
l . 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made: 
(a) 
on the basis ofDLRs achieved prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000,000 may be made on the basis of 
DLRs achieved prior to this date but on or after October 12, 2016, for Category 
(1); and 
(b) 
for any DLR under Categories (1) through (4), including those DLRs referred to 
in sub-paragraph (a) above, until and unless the Program Implementing Entity has 
furnished all required verification documents and information acceptable to the 
Banlc showing that said DLR (and the Minimum DLR. in the case of Category (3)) 
has been achieved. Such documentation and information shall be verified in 
accordance with the provisions of the Verification Protocol, based on reports 
prepared by the Program Implementing Entity, certifying the achievement of the 
DLRs in accordance with procedures and arrangements acceptable to the Banlc. 
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.1 of this Section, the Borrower may withdraw an 
amount not to exceed $50,000,000 as an advance under any of the Categories (1) through 
(4); provided, however, that if the DLRs corresponding to said Categories, in the opinion 
of the Bank; are not achieved ( or only partially achieved) by the Closing Date, the Borrower 
shall refund such advance ( or portion of such advance as determined by the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph B.3 of this Section) to the Bank promptly 
upon notice thereof by the Bank. Except as otherwise agreed with the Borrower, the Bank 
shall cancel the amount so refunded . . Any further withdrawals requested as an advance 
under any Category shall be permitted only on such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.1 of this Section, the amount of the Loan to be 
withdrawn upon the verified achievement of any DLR, shall be calculated in accordance 
with the Formula set out in the fourth column of the table in Section IV.A.2 of this 
Schedule. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.1 of this Section, if in the opinion of the Bank, 
any of the DLRs under Categories (l) through (4) has not been achieved by the date by 
which the said DLR is set to be achieved, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: 
(a) 
with respect to the DLRs under Categories (1), (2) and (4), authorize the 
withdrawal of such lesser amount of the unwithdrawn proceeds of the Loan then 
allocated to said Category which, in the opinion of the Bank, corresponds to the 
- 10 -
extent of achievement of said DLR, said lesser amount to be calculated in 
accordance with the Formula set out in the fourth column of the table in Section 
N .A.2 of this Schedule; 
(b) 
with respect to the DLR under Category (3), provided the Minimum DLR has been 
achieved, authorize the withdrawal of such lesser amount of the unwithdrawn 
proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said Category which, in the opinion of the 
Bank, corresponds to the extent of achievement of said DLR above the Minimum 
DLR, said lesser amount to be calculated in accordance with the Formula set out 
in the fourth column of the table in Section N.A.2 of this Schedule; 
( c) 
reallocate all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said DLR 
to any other DLR; and/or 
(d) 
cancel all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said DLR. 
5. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2023. 
- 11 -
SCHEDULE3 
Amortization Schedule 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the 
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date ("Installment Share"). 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(expressed as a percentage) 
1 March2024 
2.28% 
1 September 2024 
2.34% 
1 March2025 
2.40% 
1 Seotember 2025 
2.46% 
1 March2026 
2.52% 
1 Seotember 2026 
2.58% 
1 March2027 
2.64% 
1 Seotember 2027 
2.71% 
1 March2028 
2.78% 
1 Seotember 2028 
2.85% 
1 March2029 
2.92% 
1 Seotember 2029 
2.99% 
1 March2030 
3.07% 
1 Seotember 2030 
3.14% 
1 March2031 
3.22% 
1 Seotember 2031 
3.30% 
1 March2032 
3.39% 
1 Seotember 2032 
3.47% 
1 March2033 
3.56% 
1 Seotember 2033 
3.65% 
1 March2034 
3.74% 
1 Seotember 2034 
3.83% 
1 March2035 
3.93% 
1 Seotember 2035 
4.02% 
1 March2036 
4.12% 
1 Seotember 2036 
4.23% 
1 March2037 
4.33% 
1 Seotember 2037 
4.44% 
1 March2038 
4.55% 
1 Seotember 2038 
4.54% 
- 12 -
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
I. 
"Achievement" means, in respect of the DLR under Category (3), the actual target achieved 
in the relevant FY, up to a maximum not to exceed the corresponding Allocation per FY, 
and which has been verified as per the Verification Protocol. 
2. 
"Allocation per FY'' means, with respect to the DLR under Category (3), for each of the 
fiscal years FY19 through to FY22, the amount of$18,670,350, plus any proceeds of the 
Loan that remain undisbursed under Category (3) from previous FYs' allocations. 
3. 
"AHMSC" means the Program Implementing Entity's Anhui Highway Management and 
Service Center which, together with the PMO, is responsible for the overall implementation 
of the Program and referred to in Section I.B. l (a) of the Schedule to the Program 
Agreement. 
4. 
"Annual Work Plan, Targets and Fund Utilization Plans" means each of the rolling plans 
of activities, targets and overall fund utilization plans for the Program to be prepared or 
updated by the Program Implementing Entity on an annual basis as provided for in 
Section I.B.3 of the Schedule to the Program Agreement. 
5. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the 
General Conditions, the Bank's "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and 
Corruption in Program-for-Results Financing," dated February I, 2012, and revised 
July 10, 2015. 
6. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
7. 
"Disbursement Linked Indicator" or ''DLf' means in respect of a given Category, the 
indicator related to said Category as set forth in the table in Section IV .A.2 of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement. 
8. 
"Disbursement Linked Result" or "DLR" means in respect of a given Category, the result 
under said Category as set forth in the table in Section IV .A.2 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, on the basis of the achievement of which, the amount of the Loan allocated to 
said result may be withdrawn in accordance with the provisions of said Section IV. 
9. 
"Fiscal Year" or "FY'' means a fiscal year of the Borrower, running from January 1 to 
December 31 . 
- 13 -
10. 
"FY Target" means, with respect to the DLR under Category (3), the targets set forth in the 
second column of the table in Section IV.A.2 of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
11. 
"General Conditions" means the "futernational Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Program-for-Results Financing", dated 
July 14, 2017 . . 
12. 
"Minimum DLR" means, with respect to the DLR under Category (3), sixty percent (60%) 
of the corresponding FY Target. 
13. 
"Participating Counties" means the Program Implementing Entity's counties of Lixin 
(in Bozhou Municipality); Xiao and Si (in Suzhou Municipality); Linquan and Funan 
(in Fuyang Municipality); Shou (in Huainan Municipality); Dingyuan (in Chuzhou 
Municipality); Shucheng (in Lu'an Municipality); Hanshan (in Ma'anshan Municipality); 
and Yuexi (in Anqing Municipality), or any successor(s) thereto. 
14. 
"Program Action Plan" means the Program Implementing Entity's plan dated 
August 28, 2018 and referred to in Section I.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and 
Section I.B.2 of the Schedule to the Program Agreement, as such plan may be amended 
from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank. 
15. 
"Program Implementing Entity'' means the Borrower's province of Anhui, or any successor 
thereto. 
16. 
"Program Management Office" means the office established by the Program 
Implementing Entity which, together with AHMSC, is responsible for the overall 
implementation of the Program, and referred to in Section I.B.l (a) of the Schedule to the 
Program Agreement. 
17. 
''Resilience and Safety Features under the Program" means, as applicable, with respect to: 
(a) road and bridge improvements, reconstruction (and demolition in the case of bridges), 
the installation of traffic signs and markings, speed bumps, guardrail, village gateway 
treatments/speed calming, drainage, and retaining walls, among other measures, ·as 
necessary in accordance with adequate engineering and safety standards; and (b) 
maintenance activities, the installation of proper signalization during works; proper 
drainage and good evenness of road surface after maintenance; proper patching and 
adequate compaction of potholes repairs; periodic lab tests of surface treatment and road 
overlay works; and replacement of obsolete routine and periodic maintenance equipment 
as needed, in accordance with adequate maintenance and safety standards. 
18. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank 
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to ''the date of the Loan 
Agreement" in the General Conditions. 
' 
- 14 -
19. 
"Three Excellence Criteria" means all three of the following Program Implementing Entity 
modules: 
(a) Excellence in construction: At least four of the five following objectives are met 
on a regular basis: (i) 80 percent of the planned construction task for the year is 
executed; (ii) appropriate technical standards are applied for county and township 
roads; (iii) procedures from the initial design to the completion of the works are applied 
in a satisfactory manner; (iv) the engineering addresses quality and safety in the 
construction; and (v) ancillary facilities such as drainage systems, bus stops and 
parking are built along with the main infrastructure. 
(b) Excellence in management: (i) The county and township-level rural road 
management organizations should be operational and capable of performing standard 
management operations; (ii) recurrent costs for those organizations are part of 
the budget of the county administrations; (iii) management of rural roads is part of the 
evaluation of county governments; and (iv) expenditures related to rural roads 
are disclosed. 
(c) Excellence in maintenance: (i) routine maintenance activities for county and 
township levels should be fully funded and taking place on, at least, 70 percent of the 
respective networks; (ii) promotion of market-based maintenance; and (iii) periodic 
maintenance and rehabilitation should be fully funded and suffice to repair at least 4 
percent of the county and township roads annually. 
20. 
"Verification Protocol" means the protocol setting forth the actions and mechanism 
required for verification of DLis, agreed with the Banlc, dated August 28, 2018, and 
referred to in Section IV .B.l(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank. 
