OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8659-AR
Loan Agreement
(Access to Longer Term Finance for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Project)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated as of the Signature Date, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty million Dollars, ($50,000,000), as such amount
may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with
the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower's Representative for purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is MoF's Undersecretary
of International Financial Relations.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e)
of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
-2-
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest
rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the
Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall cause BICE to carry out the Project pursuant to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project
is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following:
(a) 
BICE's Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived
so as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of
BICE to perform any of its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(b) 
BICE has failed to perform any of its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that any event
specified inparagraphs (a) or (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing
for a period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower,
through MoF and MoP, and BICE.
(b) 
BICE has duly established the BICE PIU in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that counsel for the
Borrower and BICE, acceptable to the Bank, has each furnished to the Bank an opinion or
opinions, acceptable to the Bank, providing that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower, through MoF and MoP, and BICE and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and BICE in accordance with its terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower's Representative is its
Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Hip6lito Yrigoyen 250
C1086AAB,
Buenos Aires, Argentina
Telex: 
Facsimile:
121942-AR 
(54 11) 4349-8815
-4-
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
AGREED at feAM0447-fe 
t 
i6, 
,/7 
$k' 
' ,wi;, 
on behalf of the Bank on
/~/A'// ,J O, 
7 
, and on behalf of the Borrower on 
A01ell- .20, 
9s 
2 0
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
/ins 
e7 ?#UTo
Title: 
lfwlsrex e'~) 
A1/
INTERNATIONAL 
K F
RECONSTRUCTION 
.
LOPMENT
By
Authodied Rep)sentative
Name: 
NO~~ffA/~f,
Title: 
V,~ &5
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to improve access and strengthen the framework for the
provision of longer term finance for eligible micro, small and medium enterprises.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Line of Credit
Provision of MSMEs Sub-loans to Eligible MSMEs to carry out Sub-projects.
Part 2: Institutional Capacity Building for BICE, Financial Infrastructure Reforms, Credit
Guarantee Fund and Capacity BuildinE for MSMEs
2.1. 
Strengthening of BICE's capacity to improve and expand its second-tier lending functions
based on international best practices, and update its risk management, policies and systems, all
through the provision of technical assistance.
2.2. 
Improvement of the enabling environment for MSME access to finance, through the
carrying out of preparatory activities for: (a) the modernization of the Borrower's secured
transactions framework; (b) the strengthening of the Borrower's insolvency framework; and (c) the
strengthening of the Borrower's public credit guarantee fund.
2.3. 
Strengthening of SEPYME's MSME support programs through the provision of business
development and management tools aimed at making MSMEs more bankable.
Part 3: Project Management
Strengthening of BICE PIU's capacity to implement the Project, including, inter alia: (a) the
provision of support to coordinate, manage, implement and supervise the Project; (b) the carrying
out of progress and results monitoring activities; (c) the carrying out of a mid-term review survey
to MSME Beneficiaries; and (d) the carrying out of the Project's financial audits.
-6-
SCHEDULE2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall cause BICE to establish, and thereafter operate and maintain, at all
times during Project implementation, a Project implementation unit ("BICE PIU"), with a
structure, functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank as set forth in the
Operational Manual, including, inter alia, the responsibility of BICE PIU to coordinate,
manage, implement, monitor and supervise the carrying out of the Project.
B. 
Operational Manual
1 .
The Borrower shall cause BICE to implement the Project in accordance with a manual
("Operational Manual") which shall include, inter alia:
(a) 
a description of Project activities;
(b) 
institutional arrangements for Project implementation (including, inter alia, BICE
PIU staff composition 
and their roles 
and responsibilities 
in Project
implementation);
(c) 
a dedicated section for the implementation of Part 1 of the Project, including, inter
alia:
(i) 
procedures for the preparation implementation, monitoring and evaluation
of all the activities under Part 1 of the Project, including financial
management and audit procedures for Eligible PFIs and Eligible MSMEs;
(ii) 
criteria and procedures for the selection of Eligible PFIs, Eligible MSMEs
and Sub-projects; and
(iii) 
Excluded Activities;
(d) 
monitoring, reporting requirements and financial management procedures; and
(e) 
the ESMF and the IPPF.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause BICE, to not amend, delete, suspend, or waive any part of the
Operational 'Manual, without the prior agreement of the Bank. In case of any conflict
between the terms of the Operational Manual and those of this Agreement, the terms of
this Agreement shall prevail.
-7-
C. 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement
1. 
For purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower, thorough MoF and MoP, shall: (i)
on-lend the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Category (1) to BICE
("Subsidiary Loan"); and (ii) transfer the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time
to categories (2) and (3) to BICE; all under a subsidiary agreement between the Borrower,
through MoF and MoP, and BICE ("Subsidiary Loan Agreement"), under terms and
conditions approved by the Bank, which shall include, inter alia, the following:
(a) 
The Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall contain provisions pursuant to which the
Borrower, through MoF and/or MoP, undertakes to:
(i) 
promptly disburse to BICE the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan in a
manner acceptable to the Bank; and
(ii) 
suspend or terminate the right of BICE to use the proceeds of the Loan, or
obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount of the Loan then withdrawn,
upon BICE's failure to perform any of its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and
(iii) 
require BICE to:
(A) 
repay the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan (which Subsidiary Loan
shall be denominated in the Borrower's local currency and carry
at least the interest rate applicable to the Loan pursuant to Section
2.05 of this Agreement);
(B) 
in respect of Part 1 of the Project, select financial institutions
according to the criteria and approval procedures set forth in the
Operational Manual, including the criteria set forth under Section
I.D.5 of this Schedule;
(C) 
upon selection and approval of an Eligible PFI, enter into
financing agreements with each Eligible PFI ("PFI Financing
Agreements") under terms and conditions set forth in the
Operational Manual, including, inter alia, those set forth in
Section D of this Schedule;
(D) 
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance 
with 
sound 
technical, 
economic, 
financial,
managerial, environmental and social standards and practices
satisfactory to the Bank, including in accordance with the
provisions of the Operational Manual, the ESMF, the IPPF and
the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of loan
proceeds other than the Borrower;
-8-
(E) 
provide, promptly as needed, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to carry out the Project;
(F) 
monitor the overall execution of the Project and the carrying out
of Eligible PFIs of their obligations under their respective PFI
Financing Agreements in accordance with policies and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank;
(G) 
unless otherwise agreed with the Bank, allocate, as an incentive,
additional potential PFI Financing to Eligible PFIs that provide
MSME Sub-loans to Eligible MSMEs which meet the criteria set
forth in the Operational Manual including, inter alia, the
following criteria: (I) employ indigenous peoples and/or have
them in their value chains; and/or (II) promote gender equality;
and/or (III) are first time recipients of an MSME Sub-loan, as
defined in the Operational Manual;
(H) 
maintain a financial management system in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions and prepare
financial statements in accordance with consistently applied
accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner
adequate to reflect the operations and financial condition of BICE,
including the operations, resources and expenditures related to the
Project;
(I) 
have such financial statements audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, and promptly furnish
the statements as so audited to the Borrower and the Bank;
(J) 
enable the Borrower and the Bank to inspect any relevant records
and documents related with the Project; and
(K) 
prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such
information as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably request
relating to the foregoing.
2. 
The Borrower, through MoF and MoP, shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or
fail to enforce the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any of its provisions.
D. 
PFI Financing
1. 
For purposes of carrying out Part 1 of the Project, the Borrower, through MoF and MoP,
shall cause BICE to on-lend the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
Category (1) to Eligible PFIs (the PFI Financing) pursuant to the relevant PFI Financing
Agreement, under terms and conditions approved by the Bank, including, inter alia, those
set forth in Section I.D.2 below and in the Operational Manual.
2. 
Each PFI Financing Agreement shall contain provisions pursuant to which BICE
undertakes to:
(a) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Eligible PFI to use the proceeds of the PFI
Financing, or obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount of the same then
withdrawn, upon the Eligible PFI's failure to perform any of its obligations under
the PFI Financing Agreement; and
(b) 
require each Eligible PFI to:
(i) 
select Eligible MSMEs in accordance with the criteria and procedures set
forth in the Operational Manual, including the eligibility criteria set forth
in Section I.E.2 of this Schedule;
(ii) 
upon selection of any given Eligible MSME and approval of the
corresponding Sub-project, enter into a sub-loan agreement ("the MSME
Sub-loan Agreement") with said Eligible MSME for the purposes of
providing a loan (the MSME Sub-loan) to such Eligible MSME, all in
accordance with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including
those set forth in Section I. E.1 of this Schedule;
(iii) 
carry out its Project activities and conduct its operations and affairs in
accordance with appropriate financial standards and practices, including
in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines
applicable to recipients of loan proceeds other than the Borrower, with
qualified management and staff in adequate numbers;
(iv) 
(A) select, appraise and approve Sub-projects, and thereafter supervise,
monitor and report on the carrying out of said Subprojects by the
corresponding Eligible MSME, all in accordance with the Operational
Manual; and (B) ensure that no Excluded Activities are included in any
Sub-project;
(v) 
ensure that each Sub-project shall comply with the environmental review
procedures set forth in the Operational Manual and ESMF. To that end,
Eligible PFIs shall require each Eligible MSME applying for an MSME
Sub-loan to furnish evidence satisfactory to the Bank, showing that the
-10-
Sub-project, in respect of which the application has been prepared, is in
accordance with such environmental procedures;
(vi) 
ensure that for Sub-projects which: (A) require an environmental
management plan, the respective Eligible MSME shall: (1) carry out such
plan in accordance with its terms and in a timely manner, requiring such
environmental management plan to be in compliance with the Operational
Manual and ESMF; and (2) provide adequate information concerning
progress in the carrying out of such environmental management plan so
that said information be included in the progress reports referred to in sub-
paragraph (ix) (B) of this paragraph; and (B) involve the presence of
indigenous people, the respective Eligible MSME shall: (1) prepare an
indigenous peoples plan in accordance with the IPPF; and (2) provide
adequate information concerning progress in the carrying out of such
indigenous peoples plan so that said information be included in the
progress reports referred to in sub-paragraph (ix) (B) of this paragraph;
(vii) 
ensure that goods, works, non-consulting services, consulting services and
Working Capital to be financed out of the proceeds of the MSME Sub-
Loan shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Sub-project;
(viii) 
(A) 
Exchange views with, and furnish all such information to, the
BICE and the Bank, as may be reasonably requested by BICE or
the Bank, with regard to the progress of its activities under Part 1
of the Project, the performance of its obligations under its
respective PFI Financing Agreement, and other matters relating to
the purposes of said Part of the Project;
(B) 
prepare and submit to BICE, semiannual reports on MSMEs Sub-
loan disbursements and repayments, and annual reports on the
progress made in achieving the objectives outlined in the business
plans submitted with the MSMEs Sub-loan applications and
incorporated into each Sub-project; and
(C) 
promptly inform BICE and the Bank of any condition that
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its activities
under its respective PFI Financing Agreement;
(ix) 
(A) 
Maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound accounting practices, its operations and financial
condition; and
(B) 
furnish to BICE and the Bank such information concerning said
records and accounts as BICE or the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request;
-11-
(x) 
maintain a financial management system and prepare financial statements
in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to
the Bank; and
(xi) 
at the Bank's or BICE's request, have such financial statement audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, and
promptly furnish the statements so audited to BICE and the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through MoF and MoP, shall cause BICE: (a) to take or cause to be taken
all action necessary or appropriate on its part to enable Eligible PFIs to perform, in
accordance with the provisions of their respective PFI Financing Agreements, all the
obligations of the Eligible PFIs therein set forth; and (b) not to take or permit to be taken
any action that would prevent or interfere with such performance.
4. 
The Borrower, though MoF and MoP, shall cause BICE to exercise its rights and carry out
its obligations under each PFI Financing Agreement in such a manner as to protect the
interests of the Bank and the Borrower and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause BICE not to assign,
amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any of the provisions of the PFI Agreement which
are listed in the Operational Manual.
5. 
PFI Eligibility Criteria. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, BICE shall select PFIs
in accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth in the Operational Manual,
including that a financial institution may be selected as an Eligible PFI only if it is duly
established and operating in the territory of the Borrower and in respect of which the
Borrower shall have determined, and the Bank shall have agreed with the determination,
that the financial institution:
(a) 
is not a shareholder of BICE;
(b) 
has audited interim financial reports that comply with the Borrower's Central Bank
requirements;
(c) 
has adequate organization, management, staff and other resources necessary for its
efficient operation; and
(d) 
applies appropriate procedures for appraisal, supervision, and monitoring of Sub-
projects, including for the efficient evaluation and supervision of the
environmental and social requirements of the Sub-projects.
E. 
MSMEs Sub-loans
1 .
Upon approval of any given Sub-project, the Borrower, pursuant to the terms of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall cause BICE to cause each Eligible PFI to provide an
MSME Sub-loan to the pertinent Eligible MSME pursuant to the relevant MSME Sub-loan
-12-
Agreement, under terms and conditions set forth in the Operational Manual and satisfactory
to the Bank, including, inter alia, the following:
(a) 
Each Eligible PFI shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and those of
the Bank, including:
(i) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Eligible MSME to use the proceeds
of the MSME Sub-loan, or obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount
of the MSME Sub-loan then withdrawn, upon the Eligible MSME's failure
to perform any of its obligations under the MSMEs Sub-loan Agreement;
and
(ii) 
require each Eligible MSME to: (A) carry out its Sub-project with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
economic, financial, managerial, environmental and social standards and
practices satisfactory to the Bank including in accordance with the
provisions of the Operational Manual, the ESMF, the IPPF (if applicable)
and the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of loan
proceeds other than the Borrower; (B) provide the facilities, services and
other resources, necessary or appropriate to carry out the corresponding
Sub-project; (C) maintain mechanisms adequate to enable it to monitor
and evaluate the progress of the Sub-project; (D) maintain a financial
management system and prepare financial statements, both in a manner
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to
the Sub-project, as detailed in the Operational Manual and furnish the
audited financial statements to each Eligible PFI; (E) if necessary, enable
the Borrower, BICE, the Eligible PFI and the Bank to inspect the Sub-
project, its operation and any relevant records and documents; (F) prepare
and furnish to the Borrower, BICE, the Eligible PFI, and the Bank all such
information as the Borrower, BICE, the Eligible PFI, or the Bank shall
reasonably request relating to the foregoing; and (G) except as the Eligible
PFI, BICE and the Bank shall otherwise agree, not to assign, amend,
abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any of the MSMEs Sub-loan
Agreement's provisions listed in the Operational Manual.
2. 
MSME Eligibility Criteria. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause BICE to ensure that each MSMEs Sub-loan shall be provided to an Eligible MSME
only if it has been established, to the satisfaction of BICE and Eligible PFI that the
following have been satisfied and, except the requirement set forth in paragraph (a) below,
shall be maintained throughout the duration of the respective MSME Sub-loan:
(a) 
it is a MSME;
(b) 
it has a satisfactory financial structure and adequate organization, management,
staff and other resources required for the efficient carrying out of its operations,
including the carrying out of the Sub-project; and
-13-
(c) 
if applicable, it has a certificate from the relevant local or national authorities of
the Borrower about compliance with applicable environmental laws and
regulations of the Borrower.
3. 
Sub-project Eligibility Criteria. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause BICE to verify that each MSMEs Sub-loan shall be provided for a Sub-project
which is determined, on the basis of an appraisal carried out in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank:
(a) 
to be technically feasible and economically, financially and commercially viable;
(b) 
to be in compliance with all requirements pertaining to environmental protection
applicable under the laws and regulations of the Borrower and the ESMF,
including, if applicable, the preparation of the pertinent environmental
management plan;
(c) 
to, if applicable, be in compliance with the IPPF; and
(d) 
not to be supporting or include any of the Excluded Activities.
F. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
G. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall cause BICE to ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with
the provisions of the ESMF and the IPPF, as applicable.
Section H. 
Project Monitorin2 Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall cause BICE to monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report shall
cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than
forty-five (45) calendar days after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall cause BICE to maintain or cause to be maintained a financial
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
-14-
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall cause
BICE to prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of each Project Report, interim unaudited
financial reports for the Project covering the pertinent semester, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause BICE to have its Financial Statements audited in accordance
with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six
months after the end of such period.
Section HI. 
Procurement
All goods, works, non-consulting services and consulting services required for Parts 2 and
3 of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in the Procurement Regulations
and the provisions of the Procurement Plan.
-15-
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank Disbursement
Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as
made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures
in each Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive Taxes)
(1) MSME Sub-loans under 
44,500,000 
100%
Part 1 of the Project
(2) Goods, consulting 
4,550,000 
100%
services, non-consulting
services, and Training under
Part 2 of the Project.
(3) Goods, consulting 
825,000 
100%
services, non-consulting
services, Training, and
Operating Costs under Part 3
of the Project.
(4) Front-end Fee 
125,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(5) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar premium 
Section 2.08(c) of this
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
50,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an aggregate
-16-
amount not to exceed $ 1,000,000 may be made for payments made prior to the Signature
Date but on or after February 26, 2016 (but in no case more than one year prior to the
Signature Date), for Eligible Expenditures.
2. 
The Closing Date is November 30, 2021.
-17-
SCHEDULE3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: 
(a)
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment
Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary,
to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each Januaryl5 and July 15
Beginning on January 15, 2024
through July 15, 2048 
1.96%
On January 15, 2049 
2.00 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as
of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
-18-
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding
on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall
be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating
to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-19-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated
October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
2. 
"BICE" means Banco de Inversi6n y Comercio Exterior Sociedad Anonima, a financial
institution owned by the Borrower and created pursuant to BICE's Legislation.
3. 
"BICE's Legislation" means the Borrower's Decree No. 2703/91, dated December 20,
1991 and published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on January 6, 1992, as said Decree
has been amended to the date of this Agreement; and Resolution No. 65 from the
Borrower's Central Bank, dated February 21, 1992.
4. 
"BICE PIU" means the unit of BICE referred to in Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
5. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
6. 
"Category A Sub-project" means an investment which is likely to have significant adverse
environmental impacts that are sensitive, diverse, or unprecedented, in accordance with the
Bank's OP/BP 4.01.
7. 
"Eligible MSME" means a micro, small or medium enterprise that satisfies the appropriate
criteria as set forth in the Operational Manual (including the criteria set forth in Section
I.E.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement) to receive a MSME Sub-loan.
8. 
"Eligible PFI" means any financial institution incorporated in accordance with the
Borrower's laws and regulations and which meets the criteria set forth in the Operational
Manual (including the criteria set forth in Section I.D.5 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement)
to receive a PFI Financing.
9. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF" means BICE's
framework dated August 25, 2016, satisfactory to the Bank, disclosed on the Borrower's
website on August 26, 2016, and in the Bank's website on August 26, 2016, which sets
forth, inter alia: (a) guidelines for the identification of existing environmental and social
conditions and potential direct and indirect environmental and social impacts and risks
resulting from the carrying out of Subprojects; (b) recommendation of mitigation measures
for each negative impact identified; (c) measures for enhancing each identified positive
impact; and (d) the guidelines for the preparation and carrying out of environmental
assessments and the related environmental management plans, as said framework may be
amended from time to time with the Bank's prior approval.
-20-
10. 
"Excluded Activities" means, collectively:
(a) 
any of the activities listed, or activities that produce and/or use materials listed, in
the Operational Manual and which are classified and referred to as part of the
negative list in said manual;
(b) 
any investment that is classified as a "Category A Sub-project" in accordance with
the provisions of the Operational Manual;
(c) 
any investment that involves Resettlement;
(d) 
any investment that involves the use or potential pollution of, or discharge into,
International Waterways (or detailed design and engineering studies of such
investment);
(e) 
any investment that involves: (i) the construction of a new dam or will rely on the
performance of an existing dam or a dam under construction; or (ii) degradation
/or conversion of natural habitats; or (iii) the procurement of pesticides; and
(e) 
any investment that involves a contract with a contractor included in the Bank's
list of debarred or suspended firms.
11. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
12. 
"Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework" or IPPF" means BICE's framework, acceptable
to the Bank dated August 25, 2016, disclosed on the Borrower's website on August 26,
2016, and in the Bank's website on August 26, 2016, setting forth the guidelines for the
preparation and implementation of indigenous peoples plans in respect of Subprojects, as
the same may be amended and supplemented from time to time, with the agreement of the
Bank.
13. 
"International Waterways" means: (a) any river, canal, lake, or similar body of water on
the territory of the Guarantor that forms a boundary between, or any river or body of surface
water that flows through, two or more states, whether Bank members or not; (b) any
tributary or other body of surface water on the territory of the Guarantor that is a component
of any waterway described in (a) above; and (c) any bay, gulf, strait, or channel on the
territory of the Guarantor bounded by two or more states or, if within one state, recognized
as a necessary channel of communication between the open sea and other states, and any
river flowing into such waters.
14. 
"MoF" means Ministerio de Finanzas, the Borrower's Ministry of Finance, or any
successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
-21-
15. 
"MoP" means Ministerio de Producci6n, the Borrower's Ministry of Production, or any
successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
16. 
"MSME" means a micro, small or medium sized enterprise, defined as such in the
Operational Manual and collectively referred to as "MSMEs".
17. 
"MSMEs Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by an Eligible PFI to a
MSME, out of the proceeds of any given PFI Financing, for purposes of financing all or a
portion of the expenditures incurred by a MSME for goods, works, non-consulting services,
consulting services and Working Capital under any given Sub-project.
18. 
"MSMEs Sub-loan Agreement" means any agreement referred to in Section I.D.2(b)(ii) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
19. 
"Operating Costs" means reasonable incremental recurrent expenditures incurred by: (a)
the Borrower for Project administration costs (including office rent), operation and
maintenance of office equipment, banking fees, non-durable goods, costs for utilities,
printing services, communication services, logistics for workshops, and travel expenses
(air tickets and per diem); and (b) an Eligible MSME for, inter alia, salaries and overtime
of staff.
20. 
"Operational Manual" means BICE's manual, acceptable to the Bank, set forth in Section
I.B.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, dated September 16, 2016, as the same may be
amended and supplemented from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
21. 
"PFI Financing" means any financing made or proposed to be made out of the proceeds of
the Subsidiary Loan by BICE to an Eligible PFI to finance an MSME Sub-loan pursuant to
the pertinent PFI Financing Agreement.
22. 
"PFI Financing Agreement" means any agreement referred to Section I.C. 1 (a)(iii) (B) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
23. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for Parts 2 and 3 the Project,
dated September 9, 2016 and provided for under Section IV of the Procurement
Regulations, as the same may be updated from time to time in agreement with the Bank.
24. 
"Procurement Regulations" means the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for
Borrowers under Investment Project Financing", dated July 1, 2016.
25. 
"Resettlement" means the impact of an involuntary taking of land under the Project, which
taking causes affected persons to have their: (a) standard of living adversely affected; or
(b) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and grazing
land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or
permanently; or (c) access to productive assets adversely affected, temporarily or
permanently; or (d) business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely
affected, temporarily or permanently.
-22-
26. 
"SEPYME" means Secretaria de Emprendedores y de la Pequefia y Mediana Empresa, the
Secretariat of Entrepreneurs and of Small and Medium Enterprises, established within the
Borrower's Ministry of Production, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
27. 
"Signature Date" means the latest of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed the Loan Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the date of the
Loan Agreement" in the General Conditions.
28. 
"Sub-project" means any activity for productive purposes which meets the criteria set forth
in the Operational Manual (including the criteria set forth in Section I.E.3 of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement).
29. 
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.C.1 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with the
agreement of the Bank.
30. 
"Subsidiary Loan" means a loan made out of the proceeds of the Loan by the Borrower to
BICE pursuant to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
31. 
"Training" means expenditures (other than those for consultant's services) incurred by
BICE PIU, all as approved by the Bank on the basis of an annual budget acceptable to the
Bank, to finance reasonable transportation costs and per-diem of trainees and trainers (if
applicable), training registration fees and rental of training facilities and equipment under
the Project.
32. 
"Working Capital" means the Operating Costs incurred by an Eligible MSME to, at least,
maintain the existing levels of production of said Eligible MSME.
Section H. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The
-23-
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually
in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition
of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01
(a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition
of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the definition
of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and
Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
