OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8823-MX
Loan Agreement
(Additional Financing for Social Protection System Project)
between
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
OVAi 
30
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between UNITED MEXICAN
STATES duly represented by its Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (Secretaria de
Hacienda y Cridito PtTblico) ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing
additional financing for the Part of the Project described in Schedule 1 to this agreement
("Project").
WHEREAS, the Borrower has informed the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan
(as set forth in the table in Section 111.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and for purposes
of supporting the Project), shall be used in conformity with the requirements of the
Borrower's income, budgetary and public debt laws and the terms of this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
Noting that the Borrower has informed the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan shall
be used in conformity with the requirements of the Borrower's income, budgetary
and public debt laws and the terms of this Agreement, but without limitation to the
provisions of Section 8.01 of the General Conditions, the Bank agrees to lend to
the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
the amount of three hundred million Dollars ($300,000,000) as such amount may
be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion ("Loan"), to assist
the Borrower in financing the Project.
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Unless the Borrower's Representative
designated in Section 6.01 of this Agreement otherwise informs the Bank, the
Borrower's Representative for purposes of taking any action required or permitted
to be taken pursuant to this Section is the NAFIN's Director(a) de Organismos
Financieros Internacionales or any person or persons whom such representative
shall designate in writing.
-2-
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may
apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure
Limit (as said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of
this Section), the Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of
one half of one percent (0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess
Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for
each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if any)
shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set
forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during
which the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit,
the product of: (A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the
ratio of all (or, if the Bank so determines, a portion) of the Loan
to the aggregate amount of all (or the equivalent portions) of the
loans made by the Bank to the Borrower and to other borrowers
guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an exposure
surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined from
time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the
Bank's financial exposure to the Borrower, which, if exceeded,
would subject the Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined
from time to time by the Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total
financial exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by
the Bank.
-3-
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, and for the purposes of this Agreement, the Borrower, through SEDESOL
(through CNP), shall carry out the Part of the Project set forth in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consist of the following, namely, that any of
the parties to the Contrato de Mandato and/or the BANSEFI Agreement, shall have
failed to perform any of their obligations under the Contrato de Mandato and/or
under the BANSEFI Agreement, respectively, and that in the opinion of the Bank,
such failure materially or adversely affects the objectives of the Project.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that any
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to
the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
that the Contrato de Mandato shall have been duly executed by the parties
thereto.
(b) 
that the Borrower, through SEDESOL (through CNP) shall have issued
the notice (Oficio) set forth in Section I.E.2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
5.02. 
As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 5.01 (a), there shall be
furnished to the World Bank the following opinions:
(a) 
the Borrower, through SHCP and SEDESOL (through CNP) shall issue
two separate legal opinions -one for SHCP and one for SEDESOL
(through CNP)- satisfactory to the Bank, by counsel acceptable to the
Bank, indicating that the Contrato de Mandato has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower, and
is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with the Contrato de
Mandato's terms; and
(b) 
NAFIN has issued a legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank, by NAFIN's
counsel satisfactory to the Bank, indicating that the Contrato de Mandato
-4-
has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on
behalf of, NAFIN, and is legally binding upon NAFIN in accordance with
the Contrato de Mandato's terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower's
Representative is the Titular de la Unidad de Cridito Puiblico of SHCP. The
authorized representative to make requests for Conversions or for an IBRD Hedge
(as defined in the Hedging Guidelines) on behalf of the Borrower shall be: (a) the
Titular de la Unidad de Cridito Pblico of SHCP or any person or persons whom
he or she shall designate in writing for this particular purpose; or (b) NAFIN's
Director(a) de Organismos Financieros Internacionales.
6.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions, as applicable:
the Borrower's address is:
Secretaria de Hacienda y Cr6dito Pfiblico
Unidad de Asuntos Internacionales de Hacienda
Insurgentes Sur 1971, torre III, piso 3
Colonia Guadalupe Inn
01020 M6xico City
Mexico
and
the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
E-mail:
uaih_shcp@hacienda.gob.mx
6.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions, as applicable:
the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
the Bank's Electronic Address is:
-5-
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
E-mail:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
jkem@worldbank.org
64145(MCI)
AGREED at Mexico City, as of the Signature Date.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By
Autho 
ed Rep esentative
Title: Int 11 
ki,JnL/i k'~ ~C64D(b
Date: Marzo 26, 2018
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By
.Authorized 
Representative
Nam:
Title: Ac-TitAG(Oouwvsyi 
Oixt;zs61-
Date: 
""q 
ZZ_ 7,018
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to support the Borrower's effort to: (i) increase
access of PROSPERA Beneficiaries to social and productive programs; and (ii) develop
instruments for an integrated social protection system.
The Project consists of the Original Project. The following Part of the Project may be
supported by the Loan:
Part 1. Support to the PROSPERA Program and its Linkage with Social and
Productive Programs.
(a) 
Promoting the investment in human capital through the provision of PROSPERA
Conditional Support to PROSPERA Beneficiaries for:
(i) 
education, pursuant to Section 3.6.1 (Componente Educativo), or its
successor thereto satisfactory to the Bank, of the Operational Rules.
(ii) 
health and nutrition, as referred to in Section 3.6.2 (Componente de Salud)
and Section 3.6.3 (Componente Alimentario), or their successors thereto
satisfactory to the Bank, of the Operational Rules, but excluding any in-
kind support referred to under Sections 3.6.2 (b) of the Operational Rules.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arran2ements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements.
1. 
For purposes of carrying out the Part of the Project set forth in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, and except as the Borrower, through SEDESOL (through CNP) and
the Bank may otherwise agree, throughout Project implementation, the Borrower,
through SEDESOL (through CNP) shall, under its overall coordination:
(a) 
Maintain a council comprised of representatives of SEDESOL, SHCP,
SEP, SS, SE, STPS, SAGARPA and CNP responsible of, inter alia,
general guidance on the implementation of the PROSPERA Program;
(b) 
Maintain a technical committee comprised of representatives of SHCP,
SEDESOL, SEP, SS, SE, STPS, SAGARPA, IMSS and CNP responsible
of, inter alia, providing, 
supervision, transparent 
operation and
performance review for the PROSPERA Program, including the approval
of the Operational Rules;
(c) 
Provide the health and education services related to the PROSPERA
Program through SEP, SS, and IMSS; and
(d) 
Maintain State level committees (with the participation of, inter alia,
SEDESOL, SEP, Salud and IMSS), which will, inter alia, supervise and
monitor the implementation of the PROSPERA Program at the State level.
2. 
The Borrower, through SEDESOL (through CNP), shall ensure that the
PROSPERA Beneficiaries comply with the obligations set forth under Section 3.8
(Derechos, compromisos, corresponsabilidades, suspensiones y bajas de las
familias beneficiarias), or its successor thereto satisfactory to the Bank, of the
Operational Rules, and listed in the Operational Manual.
B. 
Contrato de Mandato
1 .
The Borrower, through SHCP and SEDESOL (through CNP), shall enter into a
contract (Contrato de Mandato) with NAFIN, satisfactory to the Bank, whereby:
(a) 
NAFIN agrees to: (i) act as financial agent of the Borrower with respect to
the Loan, meaning that, inter alia, NAFIN agrees to represent the
Borrower vis-6-vis the Bank for purposes of submitting Loan withdrawal
applications to the Bank in form and substance sufficient to justify
-8-
disbursement by the Bank to the Borrower of Loan proceeds and agrees,
if required by the Borrower (through SHCP), to maintain and operate the
Designated Account (referred to in the Disbursement and Financial
Information Letter and the additional instructions cited in Section 2.01(b)
of the General Conditions), all of this in compliance with the provisions
of this Agreement; and: (ii) abide by the Anti-Corruption Guidelines;
(b) 
the Borrower, through SEDESOL (through CNP), agrees to carry out the
Part of the Project set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, in accordance
with the provisions of this Agreement, including the IPP, the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines, and the Operational Manual;
(c) 
the Borrower, through SHCP, shall have the right to, in case of fraud or
corruption (as defined in the Anti-Corruption Guidelines) provide for the
early termination of the Contrato de Mandato, or temporarily suspend its
effects, or, if applicable, require the Restitution of an amount equivalent
to the funds transferred to NAFIN under said Contrato de Mandato; and
(d) 
the Borrower, through SEDESOL(through CNP), agrees to cooperate fully
with NAFIN to ensure that NAFIN and SEDESOL (through CNP) are able
to comply with all their obligations referred to in this Agreement.
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the
Contrato de Mandato in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank may
otherwise agree, the Borrower, through SHCP and SEDESOL (through CNP) shall
not amend, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any provision of the Contrato de
Mandato. In case of any conflict between the terms of the Contrato de Mandato
and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
C. 
BANSEFI Agreement and Payment Agent Agreements
1 .
The Borrower, through SEDESOL (through CNP), shall, for purposes of carrying
out the Part of the Project set forth in Schedule I to this Agreement:
(a) 
maintain, throughout the implementation of the Part of the Project set
forth in Schedule I to this Agreement, the BANSEFI Agreement with
contents satisfactory to the Bank, whereby BANSEFI, shall agree to
distribute the PROSPERA Conditional Support to the PROSPERA
Beneficiaries.
(b) 
exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the BANSEFI
Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and
the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
-9-
(c) 
not amend, suspend, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any provision of
the BANSEFI Agreement in such a manner so as to affect materially and
adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Borrower to comply
with its Project related obligations set forth in this Agreement (including
the provisions related to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines). In case of any
conflict between the terms of the BANSEFI Agreement and those of this
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
2. 
For purposes of carrying out the Part of the Project set forth in Schedule of the
Project, the Borrower, through SEDESOL (through CNP) shall ensure that
BANSEFI:
(a) 
prior to the distribution of PROSPERA Conditional Support to the
PROSPERA Beneficiaries by each Payment Agent, shall have entered into
a separate agreement with said Payment Agent (the Payment Agent
Agreement), with contents satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter alia,
the obligation of: (i) each Payment Agent to distribute, on behalf of
BANSEFI, the PROSPERA Conditional Support to the PROSPERA
Beneficiaries; and (ii) each Payment Agent and BANSEFI to comply with
the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
(b) 
shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each Payment
Agent Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower, BANSEFI and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan.
(c) 
shall not amend, suspend, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any provision
of the Payment Agent Agreement in such a manner so as to affect
materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the
Borrower to comply with its Project related obligations set forth in this
Agreement (including the provisions related to the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines). In case of any conflict between the terms of each Payment
Agent Agreement and those of this Agreement, the terms of this
Agreement shall prevail.
D. 
Operational Manual
1 .
The Borrower, through SEDESOL (through CNP) shall carry out the Part of the
Project set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement in accordance with the provisions
of a manual (the Operational Manual) satisfactory to the Bank, containing, inter
alia: (i) specific provisions on detailed arrangements for the carrying out of the
Project; 
(ii) 
the procurement, 
financial 
management 
and disbursement
requirements thereof; (iii) the performance indicators; (iv) the Operational Rules;
(v) the IPP; and (vi) the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
-10-
2 
The Borrower through SEDESOL (through CNP) shall not amend or waive or fail
to enforce any provision of the Operational Manual without the Bank's prior
written approval. In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational
Manual and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
E. 
Anti-Corruption
1 .
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. In this regard, the Borrower, through
SEDESOL (through CNP) or through any other entity as the Borrower may deem
appropriate, shall, inter alia, ensure compliance with paragraph 9 (d) of the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines as follows:
(a) 
by requiring BANSEFI, to take appropriate measures to prevent, inform
on, respond to and investigate corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive and
obstructive practices with respect to their payment of PROSPERA
Conditional Support;
(b) 
by allowing the Bank to inspect accounts, records and other documents of
BANSEFI relating to the Project upon the Bank's request and in the
company of CNP representatives;
(c) 
by allowing the Bank, at its request, to have such accounts, records and
other documents audited by or on behalf of the Bank, using the Bank's
terms of reference for such purpose, with the collaboration of the
Borrower, through SEDESOL (through CNP);
(d) 
by agreeing to suspend or terminate BANSEFI's right to process Bank
financed proceeds derived from the Loan or from any other agreement
with the Bank, if the Bank has declared BANSEFI ineligible under
paragraph 11 of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines; and
(e) 
by agreeing to obtain Restitution from BANSEFI of any amount of the
Loan with respect to which fraud and corruption has occurred,
all of the above pursuant to audit, transparency, control, restitution and information
sharing clauses within the BANSEFI Agreement, the Operational Rules and/or any
other means (including, but not limited to the Borrower's rights under the Federal
Budget and Fiscal Responsibility Law, and the Federal Public Debt Law).
2. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section I.E.1 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, the Borrower, through SEDESOL (through CNP), shall: (a) issue a
notice (Qficio) to BANSEFI (the ACG Notice) in a manner acceptable to the Bank,
including (i) a copy of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines; and (ii) exhorting
BANSEFI to comply with the Anti-Corruption Guidelines when managing Loan
-11-
proceeds (as disbursed in accordance with the provisions set forth in this
Agreement).
F. 
Safeguards.
The Borrower, through SEDESOL (through CNP), shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the IPP.
Section H. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar
semester.
Section HI. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
1. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and
in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the
Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible
Expenditures; and (b) pay: (i) the Front-end Fee; and (ii) each Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar premium; in the amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the
percentage set forth against each Category of the table set forth below.
2. 
Without limitations to paragraph 
1 above, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date and pay
to itself the Front-end Fee payable pursuant to Section 3.01 of the General
Conditions. The remaining proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed in Dollars
unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and the Bank and so reflected in
the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter. Consistently with Section 2.05
of the General Conditions, the Borrower may use an amount equivalent to the
amount in Dollars provided under this Agreement to finance Eligible
Expenditures:
-12-
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) PROSPERA Conditional 
299,250,000 
100%
Support under the Part of the
Project set forth in Schedule
1 to this Agreement
(2) Front-end Fee 
750,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(3) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar premium 
Section 4.05 (c) of the
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
300,000,000 
__ 
__
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawal shall be made
for payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $ 60,000,000 may be made for payments made
prior to this date but on or after the date twelve (12) month prior to the Signature
Date, for Eligible Expenditures under Category (1).
4. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2021.
-13-
SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule - Bullet Repayment
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on August 15, 2032.
-14-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"ACG Notice" means the notice issued by the Borrower, through CNP, to
BANSEFI referred to in section I.E.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
3. 
"BANSEFI" means Banco del Ahorro Nacional y Servicios Financieros, S.N.C, a
Mexican development bank created pursuant to the BANSEFI Organic Law (or
any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank).
4. 
"BANSEFI Agreement" means the agreement entered into between the Borrower,
through CNP, and BANSEFI on January 2, 2017, and referred to in Section
I.C. 1(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and any other renewal or amendment
thereof, whereby BANSEFI will continue to make available to each PROSPERA
Beneficiary the PROSPERA Conditional Support in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement, and under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank.
5. 
"BANSEFI Organic Law" means the Borrower's law Ley Orginica del Banco del
Ahorro Nacional y Servicios Financieros published on June 1, 2001 in the Official
Gazette, and said term includes the regulations to said law, as said law and
regulations have been amended to the date of this Agreement.
6. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section 111.1 of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
7. 
"CNP" means Coordinaci6n Nacional de PROSPERA Programa de Inclusidn
Social, a deconcentrated unit (6rgano desconcentrado) within SEDESOL
responsible for the implementation of the PROSPERA Program as created by the
Borrower's Decree published in the Official Gazette on September 5, 2014 (or any
successor thereto acceptable to the Bank).
8. 
"Contrato de Mandato" means the contract between the Borrower, through SHCP
and SEDESOL (through CNP), and NAFIN, referred to in Section I.B.1 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time.
-15-
9. 
"Federal Budget and Fiscal Responsibility Law" means the Borrower's Ley
Federal de Presupuesto y Responsabilidad Hacendaria, as said law and its
subsequent amendments have been published in the Official Gazette.
10. 
"Federal Public Debt Law" means the Borrower's Ley Federal de Deuda Puiblica,
as said law and its subsequent amendments have been published in the Official
Gazette.
11. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project
Financing", dated July 14, 2017.
12. 
"Hedging Guidelines" means the Bank's Guidelines for Using Hedging Products
dated March 23, 2009 or any later guidelines issued by the Bank to replace said
guidelines.
13. 
"IMSS" means Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social, a decentralized public entity
of the Borrower, with separate legal personality, separate budget and fiscal
autonomy, created pursuant to the Borrower's Social Insurance Law, or any
successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
14. 
"IPP" means the Borrower's indigenous peoples plan dated July 30, 2014 and
published August 26, 2014 as said plan may be updated, from time to time, with
the prior written consent of the Bank.
15. 
"NAFIN" means Nacional Financiera, S.N. C., I.B.D, a Mexican development bank
serving as the Borrower's financial agent for purposes of the Loan, or any
successor thereto.
16. 
"Official Gazette" means the Borrower's Diario Oficial de la Federaci6n.
17. 
"Operational Manual" means the Borrower's manual dated December 5, 2017
satisfactory to the Bank, referred to in Section I.D.1 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, as such manual may be amended from time to time with the Bank's
prior approval.
18. 
"Operational Rules" means the Borrower's operational rules for the PROSPERA
Program published in the Official Gazette on December 29, 2016, as these may be
amended from time to time.
19. 
"Original Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement for the Social Protection
System Project between the Borrower and the Bank dated November 19, 2014
(Loan No. 8447-MX), as amended.
-16-
20. 
"Original Project" means the Project described in Section I of Schedule 1 to the
Original Loan Agreement.
21. 
"Payment Agent" means any entity contracted by BANSEFI to assist in the
carrying out of the Part of the Project set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
and collectively referred to as "Payment Agents".
22. 
"Payment Agent Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in Section
I.C.2(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and any other renewal or amendment
thereof satisfactory to the Bank, and collectively referred to as "Payment Agent
Agreements".
23. 
"Procurement Regulations" means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF
Borrowers", dated July 2016.
24. 
"PROSPERA Beneficiary" means any family living in poverty, identified in
accordance with the methodology set forth in Section 3.2.1, 3.3 and 3.4, or any
successor thereto acceptable to the Bank, of the Operational Rules, collectively
referred to as "PROSPERA Beneficiaries".
25. 
"PROSPERA Conditional Support" means a non-reimbursable contribution made
out of the proceeds of the Loan to a PROSPERA Beneficiary, but excluding any
unconditional support (apoyos sin corresponsabilidad) referred to in Section 3.5.2,
or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank, of the Operational Rules.
26. 
"PROSPERA Program" means the Borrower's program to assist poor families
through the provision of conditional support on compliance with conditions
referred to in the Operational Rules (or any successor thereto acceptable to the
Bank).
27. 
"Restitution" means the refund to the Borrower of the portion of the equivalent
amount of the Loan with respect to which fraud and corruption has occurred, as set
forth in the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
28. 
"SAGARPA" means Secretaria de Agricultura, Ganaderia, Desarrollo Rural,
Pesca y Alimentaci6n, the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock, Rural
Development, Fisheries and Food, or any successor thereto.
29. 
"SE" means Secretaria de Economia, the Borrower's Ministry of Economy or any
successor thereto.
30. 
"SEDESOL" means Secretaria de Desarrollo Social, the Borrower's Social
Development Ministry, or any successor thereto.
-17-
31. 
"SEP" means Secretaria de Educaci6n Publica, the Borrower's Public Education
Ministry or any successor thereto.
32. 
"SHCP" means Secretaria de Hacienda y Cridito Publico, the Borrower's Ministry
of Finance and Public Credit or any successor thereto.
33. 
"Social and Productive Programs" means any program of the Borrower, the States
or the Municipalities, which supports: (i) closing gaps in access to health, nutrition,
education, housing and other social services; (ii) generating income in rural areas;
and/or (iii) labor in urban areas.
34. 
"SS" means Secretaria de Salud, the Borrower's Health Ministry, or any successor
thereto.
35. 
"State" means any of the thirty two political subdivisions of the Borrower and the
Ciudad de Mxico, collectively referred to as "States".
36. 
"STPS" means Secretaria de Trabajo y Previsi6n Social the Borrower's Ministry
of Labor and Social Security, or any successor thereto.
37. 
"Signature Date" means the latest of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applied to all references to "the
date of the Loan Agreement" in the General Conditions.
