OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8821-BY
Loan Agreement
(Additional Financing for the Forestry Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BELARUS
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between REPUBLIC OF BELARUS
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
WHEREAS:
(A) under an agreement, dated April 2, 2015, between the Borrower and the Bank
("Original Loan Agreement"), the Bank agreed to provide the Borrower with a loan ("Original
Loan") in an amount equivalent to forty million seven hundred fourteen thousand Dollars
(USD 40,714,000) to assist in the financing of the Forestry Development Project ("Original
Project"), as described in Schedule 1 to the Original Loan Agreement;
(B) under an agreement, dated April 2, 2015, between the Borrower and the Bank, acting
as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) (Grant Agreement), the Bank
has agreed to make a grant to the Borrower in the amount of two million seven hundred thirty-nine
thousand seven hundred twenty-six Dollars (USD 2,739,726) to assist in financing part of the
Project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(C) the Borrower has requested the Bank to provide additional financing in support of
certain on-going activities related to Part 1 of the Original Project and certain new activities, as
fully described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project"), by making available to the Borrower
an additional loan ("Additional Loan");
NOW THEREFORE:
the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of twelve million Euro
(EUR 12,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower's Representative for purposes of taking any
-2-
action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is the Minister of Forestry
or any successor thereto.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower, through its Ministry of Forestry, shall ensure that the Project is carried out by
Bellesexport, in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE IV- EFFECTIVENESS
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that the
Project Operational Manual shall has been updated and adopted by the Borrower.
4. 02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty days (120) days after the
Signature Date.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower's Representative is
its Deputy Prime Minister.
5.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower's address is:
Council of Ministers of the Republic of Belarus
House of Government
Minsk, 220010
Sovetskaya Str. 11
Republic of Belarus; and
(b) the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile: 
E-mail:
375 17 2226665 
contact@government.by
-3-
5.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
E-mail:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
akremer@worldbank.org
64145(MCI)
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
REPUBLIC OF BELA
By
A 
orized Representative
Name: V1- /4 
rOZA/J
Title: 
Ct 
PIP 
e4{
Date: 
AFi( -f, iso
INTERNATIONAL BAN 
FOR
RECONSTRUCT 
D DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name:
Title:
Date: 
-4-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to enhance silvicultural management and reforestation and
afforestation, increase the use of felling residues and improve the public good contribution from
forests in the Borrower's targeted forest areas.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Improvement of Silviculture and the Sustainability of Forest Management
Improving silviculture and forest management effectiveness through, inter alia:
1. 
the increased intensity of silviculture activities by thinning of young and middle-aged
stands through the provision of necessary equipment (including harvesters and forwarders),
including the carrying out of Training;
2. 
the development of the use of woody biomass from logging residues to enhance the forest
management productivity through the provision of necessary equipment (including heavy
duty chipper machines); and
3. 
the improvement of forest nurseries for afforestation and reforestation through the
modernization of selected forest nurseries through, inter alia: (a) the carrying out of civil
works including construction of greenhouses, warehouses, cold stores, wells, and
water storage facilities; (b) the provision and installation of new seeding lines,
greenhouses, cooling machinery, and watering systems; (c) the provision of other forest
nursery equipment; and (d) the carrying out of Training.
Part 2: Improvement of Forest Fire Prevention, Monitoring, Detection, and Suppression
Reducing the incidents of forest fire hazards through, inter alia:
1. 
the enhancement of the Borrower's capacity to respond to fire incidents through, inter alia:
(a) the carrying out of public awareness activities; (b) the development of a fire-fighting
zone system; and (c) the carrying out of an inventory of depleted peat lands;
2. 
(a) the strengthening of fire detection and monitoring measures through the provision of
the necessary equipment; and (b) the enhancement of communication mechanisms among
State-owned Forestry Enterprises; and
3. 
the improvement of fire suppression efforts through the provision of: (a) modern fire-
fighting vehicles; and (b) other modem fire-fighting equipment.
-5-
Part 3: Capacity Building for Sustainable Forest Management
Strengthening the Borrower's capacity for sustainable forest management through, inter
alia:
1. 
the facilitation of an enabling environment for sustainable forest management through,
inter alia: (a) the review and update of the Borrower's forest policy and legal framework
and forestry sector strategy; (b) the development of the necessary methods and techniques
to improve the biological and landscape diversity in forest management, including through
the piloting of trial new silvicultural approaches; and (c) the carrying out of Training
activities to raise awareness of State-owned Forestry Enterprises on international best
practices in the forestry sector;
2. 
the strengthening of the forest management information system and forest management
planning capacity through, inter alia: (a) the provision of equipment; (b) the development
of a web-based interface for sharing information among relevant forest sector stakeholders;
and (c) the development of a geo-information system-based map and database of potential
forestry carbon (non Project) investments;
3. 
the use of advanced forest management technologies through the provision of Training;
4. 
(a) the design and implementation of a monitoring system of radiological conditions of
forests in the Borrower's territory; and (b) the strengthening of the existing system of
protective measures of radiological monitoring activities; and
5. 
the provision of support for the implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the Project,
including: (a) the carrying out of the Project audits; and (b) the implementation and
supervision of the Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP).
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall continue to vest the overall responsibility for the implementation of
the Project in the Ministry of Forestry (MoF), and to this end, through Bellesexport, shall
continue to operate and maintain, throughout Project implementation, the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) with qualified staff in sufficient numbers, adequate funds,
facilities, services, and other resources for Project implementation, all acceptable to the
Bank.
2. 
The Borrower, through Bellesexport, shall continue to: (a) carry out the Project in
accordance with the requirements set forth in a manual acceptable to the Bank (Project
Operational Manual (POM); and (b) not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive the POM or any
of its provisions, except with the prior written approval of the Bank. In case of any conflict
between the terms of the POM and those of this Agreement, the terms and conditions of
this Agreement shall prevail.
3. 
The Borrower shall continue to ensure, during the implementation of the Project, the
coordination among its offices, units and subordinated agencies (including, State-owned
Forestry Associations, State-owned Forest Enterprises, Bellesozahita and Belgosles) and
any other relevant ministry (including the Ministry of Natural Resources and
Environmental Protection) with technical, environmental and social safeguards, fiduciary,
and other Project related responsibilities for implementing the Project, all with powers,
functions, capacity, staffing, and resources acceptable to the Bank to fulfill their respective
responsibilities under the Project.
B. 
Safeguards
1 .
The Borrower, through Bellesexport, shall continue to carry out the Project in accordance
with the ESMP. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through
Bellesexport, shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive the ESMP or any of its provisions.
2. 
The Borrower, through Bellesexport, shall continue to ensure that no activities to be
carried out under the Project involve Involuntary Resettlement.
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure, that the terms of reference for any consultancy in respect of
any Proj ect activity under the Project shall be satisfactory to the Bank following its review
thereof and, to that end, such terms of reference shall duly incorporate the requirements of
the Bank Safeguards Policies then in force, as applied to the advice conveyed through such
technical assistance.
-7-
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
The Borrower, through Bellesexport, shall continue to furnish to the Bank each Project
Report not later than one month after the end of each calendar semester, covering the
calendar semester.
Section III. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article 1I of the General Conditions and in
accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to finance Eligible Expenditures in the amount allocated
and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category of the following
table:
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Category 
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in EURO) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, 
works, 
non-
consulting 
services,
consulting services 
and 
12,000,000 
100%
Training under Parts 1.1
and 1.3 of the Project
TOTAL AMOUNT 
12,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank shall have received payment in full of the
Front-End Fee; and
(b) 
for payments made prior to the Signature Date.
2. 
The Closing Date is August 31, 2021.
Section IV. 
Other Undertakings
A. 
Amendment to the Original Loan Agreement
The Original Loan Agreement is amended as follows:
1. 
The Schedule 1 of the Original Loan Agreement is modified to read as set forth in the
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date in the Section IV of the Schedule 2 of the Original Loan Agreement is
modified to read August 31, 2021.
-8-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date ("Installment Share").
Level Principal Repayments
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
On each April 15 and October 15
Beginning April 15, 2021 
5.56%
through April 15, 2029
On October 15, 2029 
5.48%
-9-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption
in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006
and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
2. 
"Bank Safeguards Policies" means the World Bank's operational policies and procedures
set forth in the Bank's Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04, 4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12,
4.36, 
4.37, 
7.50 
and 
7.60 
as 
said 
manual 
is 
published 
under
www.WorldBank.org/opmanual.
3. 
"Belgosles" means the Borrower's forest management republican unitary (state-owned)
enterprise established pursuant to MoF Order No. 32, dated February 15, 2001.
4. 
"Bellesexport" means the Borrower's republican unitary (state-owned) enterprise
established pursuant to MoF Order No. 71, dated July 19, 1995, or any successor thereto,
acceptable to the Bank.
5. 
"Bellesozahita" means the Borrower's institution responsible of forest protection and
monitoring, established pursuant to MoF Order No. 105, dated May 5, 2000.
6. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
7. 
"ESMP" means the Borrower's environmental and social management plan (which
includes an environmental impact assessment), publicly disclosed on December 8, 2014
and updated and re-disclosed in country and on the World Bank's website on November
29, 2017, in form and substance acceptable to the Bank which contains, inter alia: (a) the
potential environmental and social impacts of the Project; (b) proposed corresponding
environmental and social mitigation measures; (c) monitoring activities; and (d) roles and
responsibilities of the implementation of the ESMP, as said plan may be amended from
time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
8. 
"FSC" means Forest Stewardship Council, an international non-profit, multi-stakeholder
organization established in 1993 to promote responsible management of the world's forests.
9. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing", dated July 14, 2017.
10. 
"Involuntary Resettlement" means any direct economic and social impact caused by:
(a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of
assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or
not such persons must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access
-10-
to legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the
livelihood of such persons.
11. 
"Ministry of Natural Resources and Environmental Protection" means the Borrower's
Ministry of Natural Resources and Environmental Protection, or any successor thereto.
12. 
"MoF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Forestry, or any of successor thereto.
13. 
"PEFC" means Program for the Endorsement of Forest Certification, an international non-
profit, non-governmental organization dedicated to promoting Sustainable Forest
Management (SFM) through independent third-party certification.
14. 
"Procurement Regulations" means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF Borrowers", dated
July 2016 and amended on November 2017.
15. 
"Project Implementing Unit" means the unit referred to in Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
16. 
"Project Operational Manual" or "POM" means the manual for the Project, acceptable to
the Bank, prepared and adopted by the Borrower, describing and setting forth procedures
inter alia, the activities and timetable of actions to be carried out under the Project, the
respective roles and responsibilities of the agencies and any other relevant ministry
involved in the implementation of the Project, the staff of the Project Implementing Unit,
the fiduciary, technical and operational aspects and procedures for implementation of the
Project, including the financial management procedures (budgeting, accounting and
internal control, disbursement and flow of funds, financial reporting, annual reports,
internal and external audit arrangements procedures and including the Project specific chart
of accounts), procurement procedures, monitoring and evaluation arrangements, and other
fiduciary and administrative arrangements and necessary terms of reference, as the same
may be amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
17. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the date of the Loan
Agreement" in the General Conditions.
18. 
"State-owned Forestry Association" means any of the Borrower's state-owned forestry
associations established in each of the Borrower's six regions.
19. 
"State-owned Forestry Enterprise" means any of the Borrower's state-owned enterprises
under the administrative jurisdiction of the MoF, certified to be in compliance with PEFC
and/or FSC standards, and participating in the implementation of the Project.
20. 
"Training" means expenditures (other than those for consultants' services) incurred by the
Borrower in connection with the carrying out of seminars, workshops, including the
reasonable travel costs (i.e. accommodation, transportation and per-diem, inter alia) of
trainees and trainers (if applicable), training registration fees, catering, rental of training
facilities and equipment, logistics and printing services, as well as training materials for
the purposes of, and directly related to, the activities of the Project.
