OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8863-TN
Loan Agreement
(Strengthening Foundations for Learning Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8863-TN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of eighty-one million two hundred
thousand Euro (EUR81,200,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in
Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are June 1 and December I in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project through its Ministry of Education (MoE) in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
-2-
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the Signature
Date.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Development, Investment and
International Cooperation.
5.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower's address is:
Ministry of Development, Investment and International Cooperation
98, Avenue Mohamed V
Place Pasteur
1002 Tunis
Republic of Tunisia
and
(b) the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile:
216 71 799 069
5.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-3-
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
By 
i 
n
Authorized Representative
Name: ZIPD 
L-AIMjAR_
Title: MIMt4f- 
a 
i&me
Date:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Auth rized Representative
Name: 1O 
VEA HE I
Title: 
__________
Date: 
2o 
-4-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to improve learning conditions in public preschools and
primary schools, and to increase access to public preschool education in Selected Districts.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. Improving quality and increasing supply of public preschool education
I. 
Strengthening the Borrower's professional development program of preschool teachers
through the carrying out of the following activities, including:
(a) 
the provision of support for, inter alia: (i) the development of training modules for
the training of trainers and preschool teachers; and (ii) the delivering of learning
courses for the training of trainers and for preschool teachers; and
(b) 
the provision of support to CIFFIP and CREFOC for the carrying out of the
training of trainers and the training of preschool teachers and, when applicable,
other relevant personnel on the Borrower's professional development program of
preschool teachers.
2. 
Providing support for: (a) the preparation, acquisition and distribution of instructional
materials for use in preschool classrooms; and (b) the provision of training in the use of
instructional materials.
3. 
Implementing a preschool quality assurance mechanism through the carrying out of the
following activities, including:
(a) 
the provision of advisory services for the design and development of a quality
measurement tool to measure both the quality of the learning environment and
child development in preschools; and
(b) 
the provision of training on the use of the quality measurement tool to measure
both the quality of the learning environment and child development in public
preschools.
4. 
Increasing the supply of public preschool classrooms through, inter alia, the construction
and equipment of preschool classrooms within public primary schools in Selected Districts,
including the construction of corresponding sanitary blocks and the installation of
playgrounds.
Part 2. Improving learning conditions in public primary school
1. 
Strengthening school leadership through the carrying out of the following activities,
including:
-5-
(a) 
(i) the design of a professional development program on leadership and school
management for primary school directors/deputy directors; (ii) the elaboration of
training modules for the training of trainers and for the training of primary school
directors/deputy directors; and (iii) the delivery of learning courses for the training
of trainers and for primary school directors/deputy directors;
(b) 
the provision of support to the CIFFIP and CREFOC for carrying out the training
of trainers, the training of primary school directors and, when applicable, other
relevant personnel on the professional development program developed on
leadership and school management for primary school directors/deputy directors;
(c) 
the development and reproduction of training materials in print and digital format
for the professional development program developed on leadership and school
management for primary school directors/deputy directors;
(d) 
the purchase of digital tools for primary school directors to carry out distance
learning activities; and
(e) 
the provision of Primary School Grants to Eligible Primary Schools to implement
school improvement activities selected pursuant to the criteria and procedures
established in the POM.
2. 
Upskilling primary school teachers through the carrying out of the following activities,
including:
(a) 
(i) the design of a professional development program for untrained teachers in
primary education; (ii) the development of training modules for the training of
trainers and for the training of primary school teachers; and (iii) the delivery of
learning courses for the training of trainers and for primary school teachers;
(b) 
the provision of support to the CIFFIP and CREFOC for carrying out the training
of trainers, the training of primary school untrained teachers and, when applicable,
other relevant personnel on the professional development program developed
under Part 2.2(a) of the Project;
(c) 
the development and reproduction of training materials in print and digital format
for the professional development program developed under Part 2.2 (a) of the
Project; and
(d) 
the purchase of digital tools for primary school untrained teachers to carry out
distance learning activities.
3. 
Improving the quality of instructional support to primary school teachers through the
carrying out of the following activities, including:
(a) 
the preparation of instructional materials for primary school inspectors and
pedagogical counsellors on techniques for teacher coaching;
-6-
(b) 
the reproduction and distribution of the instructional materials for primary school
inspectors and pedagogical counsellors;
(c) 
the provision of support to the CIFFIP and CREFOC for carrying out the training
of trainers, the training of primary school inspectors and pedagogical counselors
and, when applicable, other relevant personnel on the techniques for teacher
coaching developed under Part 2.3(a) of the Project; and
(d) 
the purchase of digital tools for primary school inspectors and pedagogical
counsellors to carry out distance learning activities.
4. 
Promoting literacy-rich classroom environments through, inter alia, the purchase of
selected reading materials and digital reading resources for reading corners in primary
school classrooms.
5. 
Rehabilitation of primary schools in Selected Districts, including small repair-type works
and equipment of classrooms.
Part 3. Strengthening Management Practices in the education sector
1 .
Managing primary school teachers' professional development through the design and
implementation of a digital tool for better management and tracking of individual teacher
professional development pathways.
2. 
Implementing learning assessments to strengthen primary school teachers' instruction
through, inter alia: (a) the design and implementation of adequate learning assessments in
primary school; (b) based on the learning assessments carried out under (a) above, the
preparation and implementation of appropriate interventions; and (c) the printing of
materials and reports to disseminate the results of said learning assessments.
3. 
Providing financing of payments under the Eligible Expenditure Program (EEP) in support
of improving learning conditions in public preschools and primary schools through, inter
alia: (a) the carrying out of training activities to strengthen the capacity of MoE's relevant
personnel; (b) the carrying out of activities to support public primary school maintenance;
and (c) the carrying out of activities to support the development of distance learning
platforms and training modules, all in accordance with the provisions set forth in Section III
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Part 4. Project Management
Supporting the Borrower (including its Project Implementing Unit (UGPO)) in the
management, monitoring and evaluation of the Project (including the implementation of all
technical, administrative, fiduciary and safeguard-related aspects), and the carrying out of
relevant impact assessment studies as defined in the POM.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements.
1. 
The Borrower shall vest the overall responsibility for the implementation of the Project in
the MoE, and to this end, shall, through the MoE:
(a) 
(i) maintain, throughout Project implementation, the UGPO with composition and
resources acceptable to the Bank and defined in the Project Operational Manual,
to be responsible for day-to-day management of the Project (including the
procurement, financial management and safeguards aspects); and (ii) no later than
three (3) months after the Effective Date, or such other date as agreed by the Bank,
appoint and thereafter maintain a Project coordinator under terms of reference
described in the Project Operational Manual; and
(b) 
no later than three (3) months after the Effective Date, or such other date as agreed
by the Bank, establish, and thereafter maintain throughout Project implementation,
the Project Steering Committee with composition acceptable to the Bank and
defined in the Project Operational Manual, to provide strategic guidance and
oversight of the Project.
2. 
The Borrower, through the MoE, shall: (a) carry out the Project in accordance with the
requirements set forth in a manual acceptable to the Bank (Project Operational Manual or
POM); and (b) not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive the POM or any of its provisions,
except with the prior written approval of the Bank. In case of any conflict between the
terms of the POM and those of this Agreement, the terms and conditions of this Agreement
shall prevail.
B. 
Primary School Grants
1 .
For purposes of the provision of Primary School Grants under Part 2.1(e) of the Project,
upon achievement of DLR#2.1 as described in Schedule 4 of this Agreement, 
the
Borrower, through the MoE, shall, upon selection of an Eligible Primary School pursuant
to the criteria and procedures established in the POM, enter into a standard agreement with
the Eligible Primary School, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (the
Primary School Grant Agreement), including, inter alia: (a) the Eligible Primary School's
obligation to: (i) carry out its activities in compliance with the Anti-Corruption Guidelines,
and when applicable, prepare an environmental and social information sheet in accordance
with the ESMF, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, and to implement said
activities in accordance with the relevant environmental and social information sheet;
(ii) report to the UGPO on the progress of the implementation of the activity financed with
the Primary School Grant, and to enable the UGPO, the Borrower and the Bank, if the Bank
shall so request, to visit the primary school where the financed activities are implemented
and administered; and (iii) to maintain records and accounts for expenditures incurred and
financed with the Primary School Grant; and (b) the right of the Borrower to suspend,
-8-
cancel or request a refund of the Primary School Grant or a portion thereof in case of the
failure of the Eligible Primary School to perform any of its obligations under the Primary
School Grant Agreement.
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each Primary
School Grant Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Primary School Grant
Agreement or any of their provisions.
C. 
Safeguards.
The Borrower, through MoE, shall ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with the
Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) and the Resettlement Policy
Framework (RPF). Except as otherwise agreed by the Bank, the Borrower, through MoE, shall not
amend, abrogate, waive, or fail to enforce the ESMF or the RPF, or any of their provisions.
Section H. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
The Borrower, through MoE, shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than forty-five
(45) days after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar semester.
Section III. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in accordance
with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may withdraw the proceeds
of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible Expenditures; and (b) pay the Front-end Fee; in the amount
allocated and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category of the following
table:
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in EUR) 
(exclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, 
works, 
non- 
56,637,000 
100%
consulting 
services,
consulting services, Training
and Incremental Operating
Costs under 
Parts 
1, 
2
(including Primary School
Grants under Part 2.1 (e) of
the Project), 3 (but excluding
Part 3.3) and 4 of the Project
(2) Payments for EEPs under 
24,360,000 
100%
Part 3.3 of the Project
-9-
(3) Front-end Fee 
203,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 
2.03 
of 
this
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
81,200,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed EUR4,872,000 may be made for payments made
prior to this date but on or after the date twelve months prior to the Signature Date,
for Eligible Expenditures under Category (2), provided that the Borrower shall
have submitted the relevant EEP spending report for the referred period and such
report shall have been found satisfactory by the Bank, in accordance with the
provisions of the POM and the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter; or
(b) 
for payments made under Category (2) until and unless the Borrower has furnished
evidence satisfactory to the Bank with respect to the achievement of the respective
Disbursement-Linked Results (DLRs) as referred to in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement and the additional supporting documentation set forth in the
Disbursement and Financial Information Letter;
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.1(b) of this Section, if any of the DLRs referred
to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement has not been achieved, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower: (a) reallocate all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said
DLR to any other DLR; and/or (b) cancel all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan then
allocated to said DLR.
3. 
The Bank and the Borrower may agree from time to time, by exchange of letters, to modify
DLIs or corresponding amounts for the DLIs set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
4. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2023.
- 10-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan as follows:
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
June 1, 2024 
1.00%
December 1, 2024 
1.00%
June 1, 2025 
1.00%
December 1, 2025 
1.00%
June 1,2026 
1.00%
December 1, 2026 
1.00%
June 1, 2027 
1.00%
December 1, 2027 
1.00%
June 1, 2028 
1.00%
December 1, 2028 
2.00%
June 1, 2029 
2.00%
December 1, 2029 
2.00%
June 1, 2030 
2.00%
December 1, 2030 
2.00%
June 1, 2031 
4.00%
December 1, 2031 
4.00%
June 1, 2032 
3.00%
December 1, 2032 
4.00%
June 1, 2033 
2.00%
December 1, 2033 
2.00%
June 1, 2034 
4.00%
December 1, 2034 
4.00%
June 1,2035 
4.00%
December 1, 2035 
4.00%
June 1, 2036 
4.00%
December 1, 2036 
4.00%
June 1, 2037 
4.00%
December 1, 2037 
2.00%
June 1, 2038 
2.00%
December 1, 2038 
2.00%
June 1, 2039 
2.00%
December 1, 2039 
2.00%
June 1, 2040 
2.00%
December 1, 2040 
2.00%
June 1, 2041 
2.00%
December 1, 2041 
2.00%
June 1, 2042 
2.00%
December 1, 2042 
2.00%
June 1, 2043 
2.00%
December 1, 2043 
2.00%
June 1, 2044 
2.00%
- 11 
December 1, 2044 
2.00%
June 1, 2045 
2.00%
December 1, 2045 
2.00%
- 12 
SCHEDULE 4
Disbursement Linked Indicators
The DLIs and corresponding amounts may be adjusted from time to time by the Bank and the
Borrower, based on the review pursuant to Section III.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Disbursement Linked 
Disbursement Linked 
Amount of Loan Allocated
Indicator Description 
Result 
(expressed in EUR)
DLL# 1: Quality assurance 
DLR# 1.1: The MoE has 
DLR#1.1: EURI,624,000
mechanism for public 
adopted a national plan
preschool education 
describing the main
established 
challenges identified and
outlining key actions to
improve the quality of public
preschool services.
DLR# 1.2: The MoE has 
DLR#1.2: EUR1,624,000
formally adopted the quality
assurance mechanism for
public preschool education.
DLR#1.3: Number of public 
DLR#1.3: EUR1,624,000
preschools that have received 
Formula: For each public
feedback on their 
preschool that has received
performance using the quality 
feedback on their
assurance mechanism adopted 
performance using the newly
under DLR#1.2, from a 
adopted quality assurance
baseline of 0 public 
mechanism, EUR4,060 may
preschools. 
be made available for
withdrawal by the Borrower,
up to EUR1,624,000.
DLI#2: Public primary 
DLR#2.1: The Borrower has 
DLR 2.1: EUR812,000
schools receive and manage 
adopted the required
funds to improve quality 
legislation allowing eligible
public primary schools to
receive and manage their own
budget, as further described in
the POM
DLR#2.2: (a) The MoE has 
DLR#2.2: EUR812,000
approved and circulated the 
Formula: For each eligible
guidelines for the preparation 
public primary school having
of budget to eligible public 
prepared a budget proposal in
primary schools; and (b) 
accordance with the MoE 's
following appropriate training 
approved guidelines,
to public primary schools' 
EUR8,120 may be made
principals on the budget 
available for withdrawal by
processes, eligible public
- 13 
primary schools have 
the Borrower, up to
prepared, and submitted to the 
EUR812,000.
Borrower for approval,
budget proposals in
accordance with the
Borrower's approved
guidelines.
DLI#3: Improved teacher 
DLR#3.1: The MoE has 
DLR# 3.1: EURI,624,000
classroom practices 
adopted a core professional 
Formula: (a) EUR812,000
development program for: 
may be made available for
(a) public preschool teachers, 
withdrawal by the Borrower
and (b) primary school 
upon the adoption of a core
teachers; each (a) and (b) 
professional development
under terms of reference 
program for public preschool
defined in the POM 
teachers under terms of
(including a face-to-face and 
reference defined in the
a distance learning 
POM; and (b) EUR812,000
component and continuous 
may be made available for
coaching to be provided by 
withdrawal by the Borrower
public primary schools' 
upon the adoption of a core
inspectors and pedagogical 
professional development
counselors). 
program for public primary
school teachers under terms
of reference defined in the
POM
DLR#3.2: The information 
DLR#3.2: EUR 1,624,000
management system for 
Formula:
professional development 
(a) EUR812,000 may be
(developed under terms and 
made available for
conditions described in the 
withdrawal by the Borrower
POM) is fully operational to 
upon the use by MoE of the
monitor and manage 
information management
professional development 
system for professional
activities for: 
development to monitor and
assign professional
(a) public preschool and 
development activities to
primary school teachers; and 
public preschool and primary
school teachers; and
(b) public primary school
directors 
(b) EUR812,000 may be
made available for
withdrawal by the Borrower
upon the use by MoE of the
information management
system for professional
development to monitor and
- 14 
assign professional
development activities to
public primary school
directors.
DLR#3.3, 3.4 and 3.5: 
EUR 1,624,000
Number of trained public
preschool and primary school 
DLR#3.3: EUR324,800
teachers that have 
Formula: At least 30% of a
demonstrated skills learned 
random sample of trained
through the core professional 
public preschool and primary
development program 
school teachers have
approved under DLR#3.1, 
demonstrated skills learned
during a given calendar year, 
through the core professional
from a 0 baseline. 
development program
approved under DLR#3.1,
from a 0 baseline.
DLR#3.4: EUR487,200
Formula: At least cumulative
40% of a random sample of
trained public preschool and
primary school teachers have
demonstrated skills learned
through the core professional
development program
approved under DLR#3.1
DLR#3.5: EUR812,000
Formula: At least cumulative
50% of a random sample of
trained public preschool and
primary school teachers have
demonstrated skills learned
through the core professional
development program
approved under DLR#3.1.
DLI#4: Strengthened 
DLR#4. 1: The Borrower has: 
DLR#4.1: EURI,624,000
measurement and use of 
developed and adopted a
learning outcomes to inform 
policy framework authorizing
policy 
and providing guidelines for
the elaboration of a national
standardized learning
assessment for public primary
schools under terms and
conditions described in the
POM.
- 15 
DLR#4.2: Public primary 
DLR#4.2: EUR812,000
schools that carried out
standardized student learning
assessment under Part 3.2 of
the Project, have received the
report on the learning
assessment results and
guidelines on how to utilize
said report to improve
teaching and learning
outcomes
DLR#4.3: Results of public 
DLR#4.3: EURI,624,000
primary school student 
Formula: (a) EUR812,000
learning assessments have 
may be made available for
been shared with the parents 
withdrawal by the Borrower
of public primary schools, as 
when at least 50 percent of
further described in the POM 
public primary schools have
shared results of student
learning assessments with
parents, from a baseline of 0.
(b) EUR812,000 may be
made available for
withdrawal by the Borrower
when at least cumulative 80
percent of public primary
schools have shared results of
student learning assessments
with parents.
DLR#4.4: The Borrower's 
DLR#4.4: EUR1,624,000
CREs have developed 
Formula: (a) EUR812,000
adequate action plans which 
may be made available for
shall include the proposed 
withdrawal by the Borrower
targeted interventions aimed 
when at least 50 percent of
at supporting low-performing 
the CREs have developed
public primary schools based 
action plans to support low-
on results of the learning 
performing public primary
assessment carried out under 
schools, from a baseline of 0.
Part 3.2 of the Project.
(b) EUR812,000 may be
made available for
withdrawal by the Borrower
when at least cumulative 80
percent of the CREs have
developed action plans to
- 16 
support low-performing
public primary schools.
DLI#5: Key investment 
DLR#5.1: The Borrower has 
DLR#5.1: EUR 1,624,000
programs in the education 
adopted a medium-term
sector are prioritized 
expenditure framework which
shall include, inter alia,
proposed budget allocations
per type of expenditures in
public primary education for
the targeted period (as defined
in the POM).
DLR#5.2: The actual 
DLR#5.2: EUR406,000
expenditures approved in
public primary education
during the first Borrower's
fiscal year covered by the
medium-term expenditure
framework are within 25
percent of the budget
allocation approved in said
medium-term expenditure
framework.
DLR#5.3: The actual 
DLR#5.3: EUR406,000
expenditures approved in
public primary education
during the second Borrower's
fiscal year covered by the
medium-term expenditure
framework are within 25
percent of the budget
allocation approved in said
medium-term expenditure
framework.
- 17-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption
in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006
and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
3. 
"CIFFIP" means Centre International de Formation des Formateurs et d'Innovation
Pidagogique, the International Center for Training of Trainers and Educational Innovation.
4. 
"CNTE" means Centre National des Technologies en Education, the Borrower's National
Center for Information System.
5. 
"CRE" means Commissariat Rdgionale d'Education, a Borrower's regional education
office established in each of the Borrower's Governorates.
6. 
"CREFOC" means Centre Rdgional de I'Education et de la Formation Continue, each
Regional Education and In-service Training Center established within the Borrower's
territory.
7. 
"Disbursement Linked Indicator" or "DLI" means in respect of Category (2), each of the
indicators related to said Category as set forth in the table in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
8. 
"Disbursement Linked Result" or "DLR" means in respect of Category (2), each of the
results related to said Category as set forth in the table in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, on
the basis of the achievement of which, the amount of the Loan allocated to said result may
be withdrawn in accordance with the provisions of Section Ill.B of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
9. 
"Eligible Expenditures Program" or "EEP" means a set of defined expenditures within
CREFOC's, CRE's, CIFFIP's and CNTE's respective budget including recurrent operating
costs incurred by said entities for carrying out the Project activities under their
responsibility.
10. 
"Eligible Primary School" means a public primary school in the Borrower's territory
selected in accordance with the criteria and procedures established in the POM, which will
benefit from the provision of Primary School Grant under Part 2.1(e) of the Project.
11. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the Borrower's
Environmental and Social Management Framework, acceptable to the Bank, published on
the Borrower's website on March 15, 2018 and on the Bank's external website, on
March 16, 2018, which contains, inter alia the environmental and social protection measures
in respect of the Project, including: (a) measures for chance findings of physical cultural
property; (b) protection of natural habitats and pest management; (c) guidelines for the
- 18-
identification of existing environmental conditions and potential direct and indirect
environmental impacts resulting from the carrying out of the Project; (d) guidelines for the
carrying out of environmental assessments and the preparation, when applicable, of
environmental and social management plans under Parts 1.4 and 2.5 of the Project, or
environmental and social information sheets under Part 2.1(e) of the Project; (e) the
recommendation of mitigation measures for each negative impact identified; and
(f) measures for enhancing each identified positive impacts; as may be amended from time
to time with the Bank's prior written consent.
12. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing", dated
July 14, 2017.
13. 
"Governorate" means an administrative subdivision of the Borrower's territory.
14. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means reasonable recurrent expenditures (none of which
would have been encountered absent the Project), incurred in the account of Project
implementation, including, inter alia, travel costs (i.e. accommodation and transportation);
printing and publications; but excluding the salaries of the Borrower's public servants
and/or permanent employees.
15. 
"Involuntary Resettlement" means the impact of: (a) an involuntary taking of land under
the Project, which taking causes affected persons to have their: (i) standard of living
adversely affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises,
agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed,
temporarily or permanently; (iii) access to productive assets adversely affected,
temporarily or permanently; or (iv) business, occupation, work or place of residence or
habitat adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (b) an involuntary restriction of
access to legally designated parks and protected areas (including reserves) which causes
an adverse impact on the livelihoods of the affected persons.
16. 
"Ministry of Education" or MoE" means the Borrower's Minist re de l'Education, or any
successor thereto.
17. 
"Primary School Grant" means a grant to be provided by the Borrower from the proceeds
of the Loan to each Eligible Primary School to implement school improvement activities
under Part 2.1(e) of the Project, selected pursuant to the criteria and procedures established
in the POM.
18. 
"Primary School Grant Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
19. 
"Procurement Regulations" means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF Borrowers", dated
July 2016, revised November 2017.
20. 
"Project Implementing Unit" or "UGPO" means Unit de Gestion par Objectif, established
within MoE, and referred to in Section I.A. I (a)(i) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
- 19-
21. 
"Project Operational Manual" or "POM" means the manual referred to in Section I.A.2 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, to be adopted by the Borrower, at all times in form and
substance acceptable to the Bank, setting forth the details of all operational arrangements
for the implementation, monitoring and supervision of the Project, including: (a) the
respective roles and responsibilities for the implementation of the Project; (b) the
accounting, financial management, 
auditing and reporting arrangements; 
(c) the
procurement arrangements, including the Procurement Plan; (d) the monitoring and
evaluation procedures including the selected indicators for measuring Project performance;
(e) the procedures and eligibility criteria governing the provision of Primary School Grants;
(f) the DLIs and DLRs under Part 3.3 of the Project, including the procedures for verifying
the achievement of said DLI; (g) the ESMF and RPF; and (h) all other relevant
arrangements necessary for the carrying out of the Project.
22. 
"Project Steering Committee" means Comit de Pilotage, the Steering Committee located
within MoE and referred to in Section I.A. 1 (b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
23. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the Borrower's Resettlement Policy
Framework, acceptable to the Bank, published on the Borrower's website on
March 15, 2018 and on the Bank's external website, on March 16, 2018, outlining general
implementation 
procedures, mitigation 
measures and monitoring 
procedures for
Involuntary Resettlement under the Project, including the procedures for preparation and
implementation of resettlement plans, when applicable, as said framework may be
amended from time to time with the Bank's prior written consent.
24. 
"Selected Districts" means any of the Borrower's districts (dligations) selected to
participate in the Project pursuant to the criteria and procedures established in the Project
Operational Manual.
25. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the date of the Loan
Agreement" in the General Conditions.
26. 
"Training" means expenditures (other than for consultants' services) incurred in
connection with the carrying out of training, seminars, and workshops under the Project,
including, inter alia: logistics, the reasonable travel cost (including transportation and
lodging), per-diem of the trainers, and training materials.
