OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8860-TR
Loan Agreement
(Inclusive Access To Finance Project)
between
TfRKiYE SINAi KALKINMA BANKASI A.$.
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
,U\j- 
:+ 
2018
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8860-TR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between TORKIYE SINAI
KALKINMA BANKASI A.$. ("Borrower" or "TSKB") ("Borrower"), a joint stock
company established and operating under the Republic of Turkey and further defined in
the 
Appendix 
to 
this 
Agreement, 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of four hundred million
Dollars (USD 400,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project
described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as
may apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
-2-
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end,
and except as the Borrower, the Guarantor and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and the Operations Manual.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
the Borrower shall have adopted the Operations Manual in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b) 
at least two (2) Subsidiary Financing Agreements, satisfactory to the Bank,
shall have been entered into between the Borrower and Participating
Financial Institutions ("PFIs") in accordance with the provisions of
Section I.B.1 of Annex I to Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the Signature Date.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Executive Vice President of the Borrower.
5.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower's address is:
Torkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi A.$.
Meclisi Mebusan Caddesi
No. 81
34427 Findikli,
Istanbul
Turkey; and
(b) 
the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile:
-3-
(90-212) 334-5234
5.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank's address
is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
TORKiYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI
A.$.
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
-
C5a.
Title: C:__ _
Date:________\
By
Authorized Representative
Name:C-o5"A X14N 
L/
Title: £)e20AeA 
A
Date: 
___ 
_
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Aut 
eprese 
*ve
Name: 
:vVvifjfi
Title:
Date: 
-Zot2
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve access to longer-term finance for (i)
Women-Inclusive Enterprises, and (ii) enterprises in Less Developed Sub-regions affected
by the SuTP influx.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. On-lending through qualified PFIs to eligible beneficiary enterprises
Establishment and operation of a credit facility for the Borrower's provision of
Subsidiary Financing to select PFIs to provide Sub-loans to eligible beneficiary
Small 
and Medium Enterprises 
("SMEs"), 
comprising Women-Inclusive
Enterprises, and Enterprises in Less Developed Sub-regions affected by the SuTP
influx, to finance Sub-projects.
Part 2. Direct Lending by the Borrower to eligible beneficiary enterprises
Establishment and operation of a credit facility for the Borrower's provision of
Sub-loans to eligible beneficiary SMEs and Large Enterprises ("LEs"), comprising
Women-Inclusive Enterprises and Enterprises in Less Developed Sub-regions
affected by the SuTP influx, to finance Sub-projects.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, throughout the
implementation of the Project:
(a) 
maintain a Project Implementation Unit ("PIU") for the purpose of, inter
alia: (i) selecting, and on-lending to, PFIs under Part I of the Project, (ii)
monitoring the PFIs' carrying out of Part I of the Project to ensure
compliance with the criteria for Part I of the Project, as set forth in this
Agreement and the Operations Manual, (iii) overseeing the Borrower's
direct lending to SMEs and LEs under Part 2 of the Project, (iv) ensuring
adherence to all Bank fiduciary and safeguard requirements by Project
beneficiaries, and (v) carrying out Project monitoring and evaluation; and
(b) 
ensure the PIU functions at all times in a manner and with staffing and
budgetary resources necessary and appropriate for the implementation of
the Project and to the satisfaction of the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower shall: (a) maintain the Operations Manual in form and content
satisfactory to the Bank; (b) duly perform all its obligations under the Operations
Manual, including ensuring the PFIs' and Project beneficiaries' adherence to the
relevant terms of said manual; and (c) not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Operations Manual, or permit any of its provisions to be assigned, amended,
abrogated or waived without obtaining the prior approval of the Bank. In case of
any conflict between the terms of the Operations Manual and those of this
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
3. 
The Borrower shall, throughout the implementation of the Project, comply with
the applicable prudential regulations of the Guarantor.
4. 
For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall, except as the Bank
may otherwise agree, ensure that:
(a) 
at least sixty percent (60%) of the Loan is allocated to finance Sub-loans
to SMEs;
(b) 
no more than forty percent (40%) of the Loan is allocated to finance Sub-
loans to LEs;
-7-
(c) 
at least thirty percent (30%) of the Loan is allocated to finance Women-
Inclusive Enterprises; and
(d) 
at least thirty percent (30%) of the Loan is allocated to finance enterprises
in Less Developed Sub-regions, of which a percentage agreed to by the
Bank and set forth in the Operations Manual shall be allocated to finance
enterprises in Least Developed Sub-regions.
5. 
The Borrower shall contribute to the improvement of the PFIs' technical capacity
to lend to Women-Inclusive Enterprises under Part I of the Project, including:
(a) 
within twelve (12) months after the Borrower's signing of a Subsidiary
Financing Agreement with a selected PFI, the Borrower shall cause the
PFI to carry out a gender bias survey, satisfactory to the Bank, of the PFI's
loan officers; and
(b) 
the Borrower shall organize training on gender finance, satisfactory to the
Bank, and shall cause the selected PFI to ensure the attendance of said
training by its loan officers.
6. 
For the purposes of carrying out Part 1 of the Project, the Borrower shall, as
appropriate, ensure or cause to ensure that (a) the eligibility criteria for selecting
PFIs, (b) the terms and conditions for the Borrower's provision of Subsidiary
Financing to PFIs, (c) the eligibility criteria for selecting beneficiary SMEs, (d) the
eligibility criteria for selecting Sub-projects, (e) the terms and conditions for the
selected PFIs' provision of Sub-loans to SMEs, and (f) the procedures for
approving Sub-loans, as set forth in the Operations Manual and in Annex 1 of this
Schedule 2, are followed.
7. 
For the purposes of carrying out Part 2 of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure
that (a) the selection criteria of the beneficiary SMEs and LEs, (b) the eligibility
criteria for selecting Sub-projects, (c) the terms and conditions for the Borrower's
provision of Sub-loans to SMEs and LEs, and (d) the procedures for approving
Sub-projects, set forth in the Operations Manual and set forth and/or referred to in
Annex 2 of this Schedule 2, are followed.
8. 
The Borrower shall utilize principal Repayments (defined in sub-paragraph (b)
below) from the first financing cycle to provide additional Subsidiary Financing to
the same or other PFIs under Part I of the Project, and additional Sub-loans to the
same or other SMEs and LEs under Part 2 of the Project (each case, -Reflows") 
for the same purpose of financing Woman-inclusive Enterprises and enterprises in
Less Developed Regions - for at least one additional financing cycle, and such
Reflows:
-8-
(a) 
(i) 
shall be made within twelve (12) months of the principal
Repayments reaching a total equivalent to USD 30,000,000;
(ii) 
shall be in the amount of the Repayments not required to meet the
Borrower's 
payment obligations 
to the Bank 
under this
Agreement; and
(iii) 
shall, in the aggregate, not be less than the aggregate of the
Subsidiary Financing provided in the first financing cycle; and
(b) 
for this purpose, (i) establish a separate account, in accordance with
policies and procedures satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) deposit into said
account each payment of interest or other charges and repayment of
principal under all Subsidiary Financing Agreements under Part I of the
Project and Sub-loan Agreements under Part 2 of the Project (each case,
"Repayments") promptly upon receipt thereof; (iii) record the same; and
(iv) accumulate the amounts required to meet the Borrower's payment
obligations to the Bank under this Agreement.
B. 
Safeguards.
1. 
The Borrower shall: (a) in carrying out the Project, and/or cause the relevant PFIs
to in carrying out Part 1 of the Project, take all necessary measures in accordance
with the Operations Manual, the Environmental and Social Management
Framework ("ESMF") and the Environmental and Social Management Plans
("ESMPs"), and shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or the ESMF and/or
the ESMPs, without prior approval of the Bank; (b) ensure, and/or cause the
respective PFIs to ensure under Part 1 of the Project, that no Sub-project shall
involve any Involuntary Resettlement; and (c) ensure that adequate information on
the implementation of the ESMF and the ESMPs is suitably included in the Project
Reports.
2. 
The Borrower shall not in carrying out Part 2 of the Project, and cause the PFIs to
not in carrying out Part I of the Project, provide Sub-loans for any Sub-project
unless: (a) the Sub-project has been screened and approved in accordance with the
provisions of the Operations Manual and the ESMF; and (b) as the case may be,
the Sub-project has been subjected to an environmental and social analysis and its
environmental and social impacts have been addressed in a manner satisfactory to
the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of the Operations Manual and the
ESMF.
3. 
In the event that a proposed Sub-project (under either Part I or Part 2 of the Project)
involves potential land acquisition, the Borrower shall cause the PFIs in carrying
out Part I of the Project, or shall in carrying out Part 2 of the Project:
-9-
(a) 
perform a study using a land acquisition screening form, satisfactory to the
Bank, to justify a determination that no conditions triggering Involuntary
Resettlement are involved;
(b) 
ensure that any proposed land acquisition under Sub-projects are market-
based, involving only willing buyers and willing sellers;
(c) 
ensure that, in cases of any proposed utilization of public lands, (i) the
transfer documents for the allocation or rental arrangements of such public
lands are included as supporting documentation in the land acquisition
screening form, and (ii) such land is not utilized either informally or
formally by any persons as a source of income or means of livelihood; and
(d) 
ensure that no Sub-projects 
involve Involuntary 
Resettlement or
expropriation.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of each six (6) month period, covering said period.
Section III. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and
in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the
Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible
Expenditures; and (b) pay (i) the Front-end Fee, and (ii) each Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar premium; in the amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the
percentage set forth against each Category of the following table:
-10-
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Subsidiary Financing 
199,500,000 
100% of amount of
under Part 1 of the 
Subsidiary Financing
Project 
disbursed under a
Subsidiary Financing
Agreement
(2) Sub-loans under Part 2 
199,500,000 
100% of amount of Sub-
of the Project 
loans disbursed under a
Sub-loan Agreement
(3) Front-end Fee 
1,000,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(4) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar 
Section 4.05 (c) of the
premium 
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
400,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed $80,000,000 may be made for payments made prior to this date but
on or after July 1, 2017, for Eligible Expenditures under Categories (1) and (2).
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2023.
-11-
ANNEX 1
to
SCHEDULE 2
For the purposes of Section I.A.6 of this Schedule 2, in relation to the carrying out
of Part I of the Project, (a) the eligibility criteria for selecting PFls, (b) the terms and
conditions for the Borrower's provision of Subsidiary Financing to PFls, (c) the eligibility
criteria for selecting beneficiary SMEs, (d) the eligibility criteria for selecting Sub-projects,
(e) the terms and conditions for the selected PFls' provision of Sub-loans to SMEs, and (f)
the procedures for approving Sub-loans, shall include those set forth below.
I. 
Borrower's Provision of Subsidiary Financing to PFIs
A. 
Participating Financial Institution ("PFI") Eligibility Criteria. For the purposes
of carrying out Part I of the Project, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall select Participating Banks and Leasing Companies as PFis in
accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth in the Operations Manual,
including the following:
1. 
Participating Banks. A Participating Bank may be selected as a PFI only
if it is duly established and operating in the territory of the Guarantor and
in respect of which the Borrower shall have determined, and the Bank shall
have agreed with the determination, that the Participating Bank:
(a) 
has total assets exceeding the equivalent of USD 1,000,000,000
on average during the last two fiscal years of the Participating
Bank preceding the signing of its 
Subsidiary 
Financing
Agreement;
(b) 
is in compliance with applicable banking regulations and
prudential regulations of the Guarantor as: (i) confirmed in the
semiannual financial reports of the Participating Bank; and (ii)
duly certified by the Participating Bank's auditors at the end of
each fiscal year of the Participating Bank provided that in the first
year of the Subsidiary Financing, if the auditor's certification is
not available, a management letter confirming the Participating
Bank's compliance with applicable banking regulations and
prudential regulations of the Guarantor will be accepted in lieu of
the auditor's certification;
(c) 
is operating pursuant to investment and financing policies and
procedures acceptable to the Bank, the Borrower, and the
Guarantor, and has undertaken to maintain said policies and
procedures;
-12-
(d) 
has adequate organization, management, staff and other resources
necessary for its efficient operation;
(e) 
has committed to (1) carrying out a gender bias survey of its loan
officers, to the satisfaction of the Bank, and (2) ensuring the
training of its staff on gender finance in accordance with
parameters set forth in the Operations Manual; and
(f) 
applies appropriate procedures for appraisal, supervision, and
monitoring of Sub-projects, including for the efficient evaluation
and supervision of the procurement, environmental and social
elements of Sub-projects.
2. 
Leasing Companies. A Leasing Company may be selected as a PFI only
if it is duly established and operating in the territory of the Guarantor, and
in respect of which the Borrower shall have determined, and the Bank shall
have agreed with the determination, that the Leasing Company:
(a) 
has total lease receivables exceeding a minimum of USD
50,000,000 equivalent on average during the last two fiscal years
preceding the Leasing Company's signing of the Subsidiary
Financing Agreement;
(b) 
has new lease volume exceeding a minimum of USD 50,000,000
equivalent on average during the last two fiscal years preceding
the Leasing Company's signing of the Subsidiary Financing
Agreement;
(c) 
has been profitable for at least two (2) out of the last three (3) years
of its operations;
(d) 
is in compliance with applicable laws and regulations of the
Guarantor that are applicable to the leasing industry as:
(i) confirmed in the semiannual financial reports of the Leasing
Company; and (ii) duly certified by the Leasing Company's
auditors at the end of each fiscal year of the Leasing Company
provided that in the first year of the Subsidiary Financing, if the
auditor's certification is not available, a management letter
confirming the Leasing Company's compliance with applicable
banking regulations and prudential regulations of the Guarantor
will be accepted in lieu of the auditor's certification;
(e) 
is operating pursuant to investment and financing policies and
procedures acceptable to the Bank, the Borrower, and the
-13-
Guarantor, and has undertaken to maintain said policies and
procedures;
(f) 
has adequate organization, management, staff and other resources
necessary for its efficient operation;
(g) 
has committed to carrying out (i) a gender bias survey of its loan
officers, to the satisfaction of the Bank, and (ii) ensuring training
of its staff on gender finance in accordance with parameters which
will be provided in the Operations Manual; and
(h) 
applies appropriate procedures for appraisal, supervision, and
monitoring of Sub-projects, including for the efficient evaluation
and supervision of the procurement, environmental and social
elements of Sub-projects.
B. 
Terms and Conditions of the Subsidiary Financing to PFIs.
1. 
Terms of the Subsidiary Financing to PFIs. For the purpose of carrying
out Part 1 of the Project, the Borrower shall facilitate the carrying out of
each PFI's respective part of the Project, by making part of the proceeds
of the Loan allocated from time to time to Category (1) set forth in Section
III.A of this Schedule to each selected PFI (provided that the PFI continues
to satisfy the eligibility criteria set forth in paragraph I in Section I.A of
this Schedule), in accordance with on-lending terms set forth in the
individual subsidiary financing agreements between the Borrower and the
respective PFIs, under terms and conditions approved by the Bank
(collectively "Subsidiary Financing Agreements"), which shall include the
following terms and conditions:
(a) 
Each Subsidiary Financing shall be subject to interest, markup,
charges and/or fees applied to the principal amount thereof
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time and which interest,
markup, charges and/or fees, in the aggregate, shall not be less
than the rate payable under Section 2.05 of this Agreement plus:
(i) any premium, charges and fees payable under this Agreement;
(ii) the administrative costs of the Borrower; and (iii) a reasonable
risk margin ("Subsidiary Finance Rate").
(b) 
The Subsidiary Financing to:
(i) 
a Participating Bank shall have a minimum maturity
period of six (6) years and shall be in an amount not
exceeding the equivalent of USD 40,000,000; and
-14-
(ii) 
a Leasing Company shall have a minimum maturity of
five (5) years and shall be in an amount not exceeding the
equivalent of USD 40,000,000.
2. 
Conditions of the Subsidiary Financing to PFIs. 
Each Subsidiary
Financing Agreement shall contain provisions pursuant to which the PFI
concerned undertakes to:
(a) 
carry out the activities under Part 1 of the Project and conduct its
operations and affairs in accordance with appropriate financial
standards and practices, including (i) in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to
recipients of Loan proceeds other than the Borrower, (ii) with
qualified management and staff in adequate numbers, (iii) in
conformity with the investment and lending policies and
procedures referred to in the Operations Manual, and (iv) to
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for this purpose;
(b) 
(i) 
provide, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Sub-
loans to eligible SMEs on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Operations Manual, including, without
limitation, the terms and conditions set forth in this Annex
to Schedule 2;
(ii) 
ensure that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(A) the amount of each Sub-loans provided to any single
SME shall not exceed the equivalent of USD 3,500,000;
and (B) the aggregate amount of outstanding Sub-loans
provided to any single SME from all PFIs shall not exceed
the equivalent of USD 6,000,000;
(iii) 
exercise its rights and carry out its obligations in relation
to each such Sub-loan in such a manner as to protect its
interests and the interests of the Borrower, the Guarantor
and the Bank, comply with its obligations under its
respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement, and achieve
the purposes of the Project;
(iv) 
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of its agreements
providing for Sub-loan, or any provision thereof, without
the prior approval of the Borrower;
(v) 
select and appraise Sub-projects and supervise, monitor
and report on the carrying out of Sub-projects by SMEs, all
-15-
in accordance with the Operations Manual, and ensure that
no Excluded Activities are included in any Sub-project;
(vi) 
ensure that each Sub-project complies with environmental
and social review procedures set forth in the Operations
Manual and Environmental and Social Management
Framework ("ESMF"). To that end, PFIs shall require
each SME applying for a Sub-loan to furnish evidence
satisfactory to the Bank, showing that the Sub-project, in
respect of which the application has been prepared, is in
accordance with such procedures;
(vii) 
ensure that for Sub-projects that require an Environmental
and Social Management Plan, the SME concerned shall
carry out such plan in a timely manner, requiring such
Environmental and Social Management Plan to be in
compliance with the Operations Manual and ESMF, and
shall include adequate information on the carrying out of
such Environmental and Social Management Plans in the
progress reports referred to in sub-paragraph (c)(ii) of this
paragraph; and
(viii) 
ensure that goods, works, non-consulting services and
consulting services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of
the Sub-project;
(c) 
(i) 
exchange views with and furnish all such information to
the Bank or the Borrower, as may be reasonably requested
by the Bank and the Borrower, with regards to the
progress of its 
activities 
under the Project, 
the
performance of its obligations under its respective
Subsidiary Financing Agreement, 
and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Project;
(ii) 
prepare and submit to the Borrower, quarterly reports on
Sub-loan disbursements and repayments;
(iii) 
promptly inform the Bank and the Borrower of any
condition that interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of its activities under its respective Subsidiary
Financing Agreement;
-16-
(d) 
(i) 
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in
accordance 
with 
sound 
accounting 
practices, 
its
operations and financial condition;
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank such information concerning said
records and accounts as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request; and
(e) 
assume the risk of each Sub-loan.
3. 
Each Subsidiary Financing Agreement shall also provide that the right of
the PFI to use the proceeds of its respective Subsidiary Financing shall be:
(a) 
suspended upon failure of such PFI to perform any of its
obligations under its respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement,
or to continue to satisfy the eligibility criteria set forth in Section
I.A of this Schedule, as the case may be; and
(b) 
terminated if such right shall have been suspended pursuant to
sub-paragraph (a) hereof for a continuous period of sixty (60)
days.
4. 
The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all action necessary or
appropriate on its part to:
(a) 
enable the selected PFIs to perform in accordance with the
provisions of their respective Subsidiary Financing Agreements
all the obligations of the PFIs therein set forth, and not take or
permit to be taken any action that would prevent or interfere with
such performance;
(b) 
monitor the overall execution of the Project and the carrying out
by the PFIs of their obligations under their respective Subsidiary
Financing Agreements in accordance with policies and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank; and
(c) 
exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the
Subsidiary Financing Agreements in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive, or fail to
enforce the Subsidiary Financing Agreement or any of its
provisions.
-17-
II. 
PFIs' Provision of Sub-loans to SMEs
A. 
SME Eligibility Criteria. 
Each SME shall establish, and maintain during the
duration of its receipt of the relevant Sub-loan, the following to the satisfaction of
the Borrower and PFI:
1. 
it is an SME;
2. 
it is a Private Enterprise;
3. 
it has a satisfactory financial structure and the organization, management,
staff and financial and other resources required for the efficient carrying
out of its operations, including the carrying out of the Sub-project; and
4. 
it has a certificate from the relevant local or national authorities of the
Guarantor about compliance with applicable environmental laws and
regulations of the Guarantor.
B. 
Sub-project Eligibility Criteria. Unless otherwise agreed between the Bank and
the Borrower, each Sub-loan shall be provided for a Sub-project which is
determined, on the basis of an appraisal carried out in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank:
1. 
to be technically feasible and economically, financially and commercially
viable;
2. 
to be in compliance with all requirements of the ESMF. To that end, the
PFI shall require each SME applying for a Sub-loan to furnish evidence
satisfactory to the PFI, the Borrower, and the Bank, showing that the Sub-
project for which the application was made, was prepared in accordance
with such procedures, such evidence to include, 
inter alia, an
Environmental and Social Management Plan prepared in accordance with
the requirements of the ESMF for a Sub-project submitted for approval;
3. 
not to be supporting and not to include the purchase of land that involves
any Involuntary Resettlement; and
4. 
not to be supporting and not to include any of the Excluded Activities.
C. 
Terms and Conditions for the Sub-loans to SMEs.
I. 
Terms. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, each Sub-loan shall be
provided on terms, including those relating to the maturity, interest rate,
-18-
markup, charges and/or fees determined in accordance with the PFI's
investment and lending policies and practices, provided that:
(a) 
the interest rate, markup, charges and/or fees, in the aggregate, to
be applied to the principal amount thereof withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, shall not be less than the Subsidiary
Finance Rate applicable from time to time pursuant to Section
I.B.1(a) of this Annex to Schedule 2 plus the PFI's administrative
costs and an appropriate risk margin; and
(b) 
each Sub-loan by PFIs shall have a maturity period of at least two
(2) years for all working capital and at least three (3) years for all
investment Sub-loans.
2. 
Conditions of the Sub-loan to SMEs. Each Sub-loan shall be provided
on further conditions whereby the PFI shall obtain, by written contract
with the SME or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to
protect its interests and the interests of the Guarantor, the Bank, and the
Borrower, including, inter alia, the right to:
(a) 
require the SME to carry out and operate the facilities financed
under the Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial
standards, and in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of finance proceeds
other than the Borrower, and to maintain adequate records;
(b) 
without limitation to the generality of the provisions of the
preceding paragraph (a), require the SME to carry out and operate
the Sub-project with due regard to applicable social impact,
ecological, environmental and pollution control standards and in
accordance with the provisions of the Operations Manual;
(c) 
require that goods, works, non-consulting services and consulting
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan shall
be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Sub-project;
(d) 
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank, the
Borrower or the Guarantor, if the Bank or the Guarantor shall so
request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction
included in the Sub-project, the operation thereof, and any
relevant records and documents;
(e) 
require that the SME take out and maintain with responsible
insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts,
-19-
as shall be consistent with sound business practice; and without
any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan to the place of
use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable
in a currency freely usable by the SME to replace or repair such
goods;
(f) 
obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the
administration, operations and financial condition of the SME and
to the benefits to be derived from the Sub-project;
(g) 
require that, for all Sub-loans above a certain threshold amount,
as specified in the Operations Manual, the respective SMEs shall:
(i) 
submit to the Borrower a cash flow statement in
accordance with the Operations Manual;
(ii) 
have a ratio of financial obligation to equity (after receipt
of the Sub-loan) as specified in the Operations Manual,
except as the Bank and the Borrower may otherwise
agree; and
(iii) 
provide a reasonable forecast of its revenues and
expenditures showing that its net revenues for each fiscal
year (during the term of the financial obligation to be
incurred) shall be no less than the requirement specified
in the Operations Manual, except as the Bank and the
Borrower may otherwise agree; and
(h) 
suspend and terminate the right of the SME to the use of the
proceeds of the Sub-loan upon failure by such SME to perform
any of its obligations under its contract with the PFI.
D. 
Approval Procedures for Sub-loan.
1 
Each Sub-loan shall be approved by the PFI on the basis of:
(i) 
a description of the SME and an appraisal of the Sub-project,
including a description of the expenditures proposed to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan;
(ii) 
the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the
schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan;
-20-
(iii) 
evidence of compliance with the Operations Manual and with the
ESMF; and
(iv) 
such other information as the Bank or the Borrower shall
reasonably request.
2. 
Unless otherwise agreed to by the Bank, the Borrower shall ensure that:
(a) the first Sub-loan by each PFI, irrespective of size, shall be subject to
the prior review and approval of the Bank; and (b) any Sub-loan to be
provided to an SME in an amount exceeding the equivalent of USD
2,500,000 shall be subject to the prior review and approval of the Bank.
-21-
ANNEX 2
to
SCHEDULE2
For the purposes of Section I.A.7 of this Schedule 2, in relation to the carrying out
of Part 2 of the Project, the selection criteria of the beneficiary SMEs and LEs, the
eligibility criteria for selecting Sub-projects, the terms and conditions for the Borrower's
provision of Sub-loans to SMEs and LEs, and the procedures for approving Sub-projects,
shall include those set forth below.
I. 
Sub-loans to eligible beneficiaries under Part 2 of the Project.
A. 
For the purposes of carrying out Part 2 of the Project, the Borrower shall:
1 
(a) 
make Sub-loans to SMEs and LEs under Sub-loan Agreements to
be entered into between the Borrower and, as relevant, an SME or
an LE, on the terms and conditions set forth in the Operations
Manual, including, without limitation, the terms and conditions
set forth in Section II of Annex 1 to Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
with the following modifications:
(i) 
all references to "PFI" shall be treated as references to
"the Borrower";
(ii) 
references to "SME" and to "SMEs", other than those
defining the term "SME", shall also include, respectively,
references to "LE" and "LEs";
(iii) 
Section II.C.1 (a) and (b) shall be modified to read as
follows:
"1. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, each
Sub-loan shall be provided on terms, including those
relating to the maturity, interest rate, markup, charges
and/or 
fees, 
determined 
in 
accordance 
with 
the
Borrower's investment and lending policies and practices,
provided that:
(a) 
the interest rate, markup, charges and/or
fees, in the aggregate, to be applied to the
principal amount thereof withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, shall not be
less than the rate payable under Section
2.05 of this Agreement 
plus (i) any
-22-
premium, charges and fees payable under
this Agreement, (ii) the administrative
costs 
of the 
Borrower, 
and 
(iii) a
reasonable risk margin; and
(b) 
each Sub-loan by the Borrower to SMEs
and LEs to finance an Sub-project shall
have a minimum maturity period of:
(i) four (4) years for an Investment Sub-
project, and (ii) two (2) years for a
Working Capital Sub-project.";
(iv) 
Section C.2 (a) shall be modified to read as follows:
"2. 
Conditions of the Sub-loans to SMEs and LEs.
Each Sub-loan shall be provided on further
conditions whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by
written contract with the SME or the LE, as the
case may be, or by other appropriate legal means,
rights adequate to protect its interests and the
interests of the Guarantor and the Bank, including
the right to:
(a) 
require that (i) the Sub-loan for any
individual Sub-project shall not exceed
USD 3,500,000 equivalent for SMEs and
USD 6,000,000 equivalent for LEs, and
(ii) the aggregate amount of outstanding
Sub-financing and Sub-loans to any one
SME shall not exceed USD 6,000,000
equivalent, and the aggregate amount of
outstanding Sub-loans to any one LE
shall 
not 
exceed 
USD 
10,000,000
equivalent, unless otherwise agreed to by
the Bank"; and
(vii) 
Section D.2 shall be modified as follows:
"Unless otherwise agreed to by the Bank, the Borrower
shall ensure that: (a) the first Sub-loan, irrespective of
size, shall be subject to the prior review and approval of
the Bank; and (b) any Sub-loan (i) to be provided to an
SME in an amount exceeding the equivalent of USD
2,500,000, or (ii) an LE in an amount exceeding the
-23-
equivalent of USD 5,000,000, shall be subject to the prior
review and approval of the Bank."
(b) 
exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each Sub-
loan Agreement in a manner acceptable to the Bank, and to protect
its interests, and the interests of the Guarantor and the Bank; and
(c) 
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of its Sub-loan
Agreements, or any provision thereof, without the prior approval
of the Bank.
2. 
supervise, monitor and report on the carrying out of Sub-projects by SMEs
and LEs, in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and those
of the Operations Manual.
-24-
SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share").
Level Principal Repayments
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
On each April 15 and October 15
Beginning October 15, 2024
through October 15, 2046 
2.17%
On April 15, 2047 
2.35%
-25-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
3. 
"Category A Sub-projects" means Sub-projects which are likely to have significant
adverse environmental or social impacts that are sensitive, diverse, 
or
unprecedented and require a full environmental impact assessment pursuant to the
provisions of the Operational Manual and the Environmental and Social
Management Framework.
4. 
"Enterprises in Less Developed Sub-regions" means enterprises operating in the
Less Developed Sub-regions of the Guarantor.
5. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the
environmental and social management framework prepared and adopted by the
Borrower for the purposes of the Project dated March 6, 2018, acceptable to the
Bank, describing: (a) the procedures, principles and guidelines to screen all Sub-
projects proposed for financing under the Project; and (b) in case such screening
shall reveal that a Sub-project may have any negative environmental or social
impact, the procedures, principles and guidelines which shall be complied with in
order to prepare an environmental/social assessment and to address the
environmental/social impacts of such Sub-project through mitigation measures
and/or an ESMP, as appropriate, as such framework may be amended from time to
time with the prior agreement of the Bank.
6. 
"Environmental and Social Management Plan" or "ESMP" means any specific
environmental and social management plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to be carried
out by an SME or LE under a Sub-project, as may be required pursuant to the due
observance of the Environmental and Social Management Framework by the
Borrower, the PFIs and SMEs and LEs, and in accordance with the provisions of
the respective Sub-loan Agreement or contract, as relevant, wherein shall have
been defined specific details of measures to manage potential environmental and
social risks and mitigate, reduce and/or offset adverse environmental and social
impacts associated with the implementation of activities under the Sub-project,
together with adequate institutional, monitoring and reporting arrangements
capable of ensuring proper implementation of, and regular feedback on compliance
-26-
with, its terms, as the same such Environmental and Social Management Plan may
be amended and supplemented from time to time, satisfactory to the Bank.
7. 
"Excluded Activities" means, collectively:
(a) 
any of the activities listed, or activities that produce and/or use materials
listed, in the Operations Manual and which are classified and referred to
as part of the negative list in said manual;
(b) 
an investment that is classified as a Category "A" Sub-project in
accordance with the provisions of the Operations Manual;
(c) 
an investment that entails land acquisition that would involve Involuntary
Resettlement;
(d) 
an investment that involves the potential use of, or discharge into,
international waterways (or detailed design and engineering studies of
such investment), as such waterways shall have been described more
specifically in the Operations Manual; and
(e) 
an investment that involves the construction of a new dam or will rely on
the performance of an existing dam or a dam under construction.
8. 
"Guarantor" means the Republic of Turkey.
9. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project
Financing", dated July 14, 2017, with the modifications set forth in Section II of
this Appendix.
10. 
"Involuntary Resettlement" means any direct economic and social impact caused
by: (a) the involuntary taking of land resulting in (i) relocation or loss of shelter,
(ii) loss of assets or access to assets, and (iii) loss of income sources or means of
livelihood, whether or not the affected persons must move to another location; or
(b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected
areas resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihoods of such person.
I I. 
"Least Developed Sub-regions" means the subset of Less Developed Sub-regions
approved by the Bank and set forth in the Operations Manual that have been
selected based on a composite index agreed to by the Bank.
12. 
"Less Developed Sub-regions" means the NUTS-II sub-regions approved by the
Bank and set forth in the Operations Manual, selected based on a composite index
agreed to by the Bank comprising the following five major socio-economic
indicators for the Republic of Turkey: share of refugees in population; the socio-
-27-
economic development index; job quality index; unemployment rate; and female
labor force participation rate.
13. 
"Large Enterprise" or "LE" means an enterprise that: (a) employs fewer than 1,500
employees if the enterprise is located in a Least Developed Sub-region, or employs
fewer than 1,000 employees if it is located in any other sub-region; and (b) satisfies
the appropriate criteria as set forth in Section 1. of Annex 2 to Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and the Operations Manual.
14. 
"Leasing Company" means an institution registered and operating as a leasing
company under the Guarantor's Financial Leasing, Factoring and Financing
Company Law (Law No. 6361 published in the Official Gazette dated December
13, 2012, No. 28496, as amended) and other applicable laws and regulations of the
Guarantor pertaining to leasing.
15. 
"NUTS II" means the Republic of Turkey's sub-regions under its nomenclature of
territorial units for statistics.
16. 
"Operations Manual" means the manual of the Borrower referred to in Section
I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, adopted by the Borrower and satisfactory
to the Bank, that sets forth the operational and administrative procedures in respect
of the preparation, approval, processing, financing, implementation, 
and
supervision of Sub-projects, and such manual includes the Environmental and
Social Management Framework.
17. 
"Participating Financial Institution" or "PFI" means any or each Participating
Bank or Leasing Company selected by the Borrower pursuant to the criteria set
forth in Section l.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the Operations Manual.
18. 
"Participating Bank" means an institution registered and operating as a bank under
the Guarantor's Banking Law (Law No. 5411 published in the Official Gazette
dated November 1, 2005, No. 25983, as amended) and other applicable laws and
regulations of the Guarantor pertaining to banking.
19. 
"Private Enterprise" means an enterprise in the territory of the Guarantor of which
more than fifty percent (50%) of the shares or other equity interest thereof is held
by persons or companies other than the Guarantor, any agency or subdivision
thereof, or any local governmental authority, or entities controlled by the
Guarantor or such agencies or subdivisions.
20. 
"Project Implementation Unit" or "PIU" means the Project implementation unit of
the Borrower, referred to in Section I.A. 1 of Schedule 2, or any legal successor to
such unit.
-28-
21. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the
date of the Loan Agreement" in the General Conditions.
22. 
"Small or Medium Enterprise" or "SME" means an enterprise that employs fewer
than 250 employees, and that satisfies the appropriate criteria as set forth in Section
I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the Operations Manual.
23. 
"Sub-loan" means financing made or proposed to be made by: (a) a PFI to an SME
beneficiary enterprise out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time
to Category (1), for purposes of financing all or a portion of the expenditures
incurred by an SME under a Sub-Project; or (b) the Borrower (under Part 2 of the
Project) directly to a SME or LE beneficiary enterprise, out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to Category (2), for purposes of financing all or
a portion of the expenditures incurred by a beneficiary enterprise, all for goods,
works, non-consulting services and consulting services under a Sub-project.
24. 
"Sub-loan Agreement" means an agreement entered or to be entered into between
the Borrower and an SME or an LE for the purposes of Part 2 of the Project,
pursuant to Section I.A.1 of Annex 2 to Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
25. 
-Sub-project" means a specific project, selected based on criteria satisfactory to
the Bank, to be carried out by a beneficiary enterprise, in whole or in part through
the utilization of the proceeds of any Sub-financing or Sub-loan.
26. 
"Subsidiary Financing" means any financing provided by the Borrower to a PFI
pursuant to a Subsidiary Financing Agreement.
27. 
"Subsidiary Financing Agreement" means an agreement entered or to be entered
into between the Borrower and a PFI pursuant to Section I.B.1 of Annex 1 to
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
28. 
"Syrians under Temporary Protection" or "SuTP" means the term as defined in
Turkish Law No. 6458 on Foreigners and International Protection (2013) and
Regulation No. 29153 on Temporary Protection of Syrians (2014), which provide
Syrians under temporary protection access to registration and documentation and
to services, including all Syrians who entered the country after April 27, 2011, and
were retroactively placed under temporary protection.
29. 
"Tirkiye 
Sinai 
Kalkinma 
Bankasi 
A.S." or "TSKB" means Industrial
Development Bank of Turkey, a joint-stock company established pursuant to the
statutes published in Trade Registry Gazette No. 7046 dated June 2, 1950 (Trade
Registry No. 42527).
30. 
"Women-inclusive Enterprise" means:
-29-
(a) 
for the purposes of Part I of the Project, an enterprise:
(i) 
with at least one 
female shareholder 
with documented
representative and managing powers, acceptable to the Bank; or
(ii) 
with at least one female holding a top executive or highest level
corporate position in the company, or with at least twenty-five
percent 
(25%) percent female representation 
in mid-level
management (as such positions are further defined in the
Operations Manual); or
(iii) 
employing a ratio of women that is higher than the average ratio
observed in the respective sector; and
(b) 
for the purposes of Part 2 of the Project, an enterprise that meets one or
more of the following criteria:
(i) 
possession of a valid gender certification acceptable to the Bank;
or
(ii) 
receipt of a minimum required gender toolkit score, as specified
in the Operations Manual, and based on an assessment carried out
by the Borrower, as determined to be acceptable to the Bank; or
(iii) 
commitment to implement a credible time-bound gender action
plan that would result in achieving the minimum required score
specified in the Operational Manual, carried out in accordance
with the gender toolkit, and acceptable to the Bank.
-30-
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
I. 
Section 5.13 (Procurement) is deleted in its entirety and the remaining section in
Article V is renumbered accordingly.
2. 
Paragraphs 84 (Procurement Plan) and 85 (Procurement Regulations) in the
Appendix are deleted in their entirety and the subsequent paragraphs are
renumbered accordingly.
