OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
PROGRAM LOAN NUMBER 8812-BR
PROJECT LOAN NUMBER 8813-BR
Loan Agreement
(Support to the Upper Secondary Education Reform Operation 
Projeto de Apoio 6 Implementa(do do Novo Ensino Midio)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated as of the Signature Date, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF
BRAZIL ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to, and form
a part of, this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred fifty million Dollars ($250,000,000)
(Operation Loan) to assist in financing, out of which: (a) the amount of two hundred
twenty one million Dollars ($ 221,000,000) allocated to the Program described in Part I of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (the Program) which constitutes an integral part of the
Operation (Program Loan); and (b) the amount of twenty-nine million Dollars ($
29,000,000) shall be allocated to the Project described in Part 2 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement (the Project), which constitutes an integral part of the Operation (Project
Loan) as any of such amounts may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion, to assist in financing the Operation.
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Operation Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. All withdrawals from the Program Loan
Account (to which the amounts of the Loan allocated for the Program and for the Project
are credited) shall be deposited by the Bank into an account specified by the Borrower and
acceptable to the Bank. The Borrower's Representatives for purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section are: (a) the Borrower's Secretary
of the National Treasury of the Ministry of Finance or any person or persons whom he/she
shall designate; and (b) the Borrower's Minister of Education or any person or persons
whom he/she shall designate.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee, payable by the borrower, is equal to one quarter of one percent (0.25%)
of the Program Loan amount; and one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Project Loan
Amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is equal to one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Program Loan Balance, and one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum
on the Unwithdrawn Project Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest is the Reference Rate plus the Fixed Spread; or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Program Loan and Project Loan shall be repaid in accordance
with the Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
If, on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit (as
said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of this Section), the
Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of one half of one percent
(0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-
paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The
Exposure Surcharge (if any) shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each
Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during which
the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit, the product of:
(A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the ratio of all or, if the Bank
so determines, a portion of the Program Loan and/or Project Loan to the
aggregate amount of all (or the equivalent portions) of the loans made by
the Bank to the Borrower, and to other borrowers guaranteed by the
Borrower that are also subject to an exposure surcharge, as said excess and
ratio are reasonably determined from time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the Bank's
financial exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded, would subject the
Program Loan and/or Project Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as
determined from time to time by the Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total financial
exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
ARTICLE III -
OPERATION
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Operation. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out the Operation through MEC, with the assistance of the FNDE and
the SEEs for activities under the Operation that falls under their administrative jurisdiction,
as follows: (i) FNDE, within its legal mandate, to carry out selected activities under Part 1
of the Operation; and (ii) SEEs to carry out selected activities under Part 1 of the Operation;
all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the respective General Conditions,
and the NEM Portaria Commitment Agreements and the FTS Portaria Commitment
Agreements.
-2-
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
the NEM Legal Framework shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect, materially and adversely, in the opinion of the
Bank and in consultation with the Borrower, the ability of the Borrower, FNDE or
any SEE to perform any of their obligations under this Agreement, under any NEM
Portaria Commitment Agreements or FTS Portaria Commitment Agreements.
(b) 
the MEC Portarias shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank in
consultation with the Borrower, the ability of the Borrower, FNDE or any SEE to
perform any of their obligations under this Agreement, the NEM Portaria
Commitment Agreements or the FTS Portaria Commitment Agreements.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that any of the
events specified in paragraph 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and are continuing for a period
of ninety (90) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consist of the following, namely that acceptable
evidence has been received by the Bank confirming that the FTS Portaria Commitment
Agreements comply with the Anti-Corruption Guidelines, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
5.03. 
For purposes of Section 9.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement (other than those providing for payment obligations) shall terminate
twenty (20) years after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE VI- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower's Representative is its
Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions,
(a) the Borrower's address is:
Ministdrio da Fazenda
Procuradoria-Geral da Fazenda Nacional
Esplanada dos Minist6rios, Bloco "P" - 80 andar
Brasilia, DF, 70048-900 - Brazil
30
With copies to:
SEAIN - Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais do
Minist6rio do Planejamento, Desenvolvimento e GestAo
Esplanada dos Minist6rios - Bloco K - 50 andar
Brasilia, DF, 70040-906 - Brazil
And to:
Ministerio da Educago - MEC
Secretaria da Educaqdo B6sica
Esplanada dos Ministerios - Bloco L - 50 andar
Brasilia, DF, 70047-900 - Brazil; and
(b) the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile: 
E-mail:
(55-61) 3412-1740 
gabinete-seb@mec.gov.br
6.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions,
(a) the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
E-mail:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
mraiser@worldbank.org
64145(MCI)
-4- 
1
AGREED at the Signature Date.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 4\(~i4~~~ ~Sv
Title: 
?f0C4__f 
__)Mk 
__a
Date:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: AAY4.t 
RaL
Title: 
fec44 
Date: 
1  
4
WITNESSED BY
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Operation Description
The objectives of the Operation are to: (i) strengthen the capacity of the SEEs to implement
the Upper Secondary Education Reform, prioritizing Vulnerable Schools; and (ii) increase the
Index of Basic Education Development in targeted full-time upper secondary schools in the
Borrower's territory.
The Operation consists of the Program (Part 1) and the Project (Part 2), as follows:
Part 1: Support to the Upper Secondary Education Reform (the Program)
The Program consists of the following selected result areas and activities:
a) 
Supporting the implementation of the new curriculum to increase the relevance of
Upper Secondary Education, through the NEM Portaria Commitment Agreements,
to:
(i) 
reorganize the States' curricula (based on the BNCC and the NEM Legal
Framework), including the design and implementation of learning itineraries and
implementation strategies focused on social and gender equity;
(ii) 
train SEEs officials, technical staff, school principals, and pedagogic coordinators
and ultimately school teachers in the main elements and implementation of the
NEM (including pedagogical practices towards competencies and socioemotional
skills); and
(iii) 
build capacity for SEEs to plan, implement and monitor the Upper Secondary
Education Reform, including guidelines for curricular proposals, planning
governance, communication and teacher training.
b) 
Promoting the expansion of FTS to decrease dropouts and repetition rates in targeted
Upper Secondary Education schools, through the FTS Portaria Commitment
Agreements, to:
(i) 
introduce a FTS system based on the basic concepts of the NEM Legal Framework,
including BNCC and formative itineraries;
(ii) 
develop and execute an implementation plan for the expansion of the FTS;
(iii) 
support the implementation of the FTS system through a per capita basis transfers
to help States to, inter alia, train teachers and personnel, build new or rehabilitate
infrastructure and purchase equipment;
(iv) 
carry out an in-depth assessment of the FTS system with recommendations for
improvements (based on NEM, BNCC and the new learning itineraries) and
guidelines to promote best practices; and
-6-
(v) 
monitor and evaluate the results of the Program, based on set targets as per the
MEC Portarias.
Part 2: Technical Assistance to Implement the Upper Secondary Education Reform (the
Project)
Strengthening the institutional capacity of MEC and SEEs to ensure a proper implementation of
the Upper Secondary Reform, through: (i) the design to implement the new Upper Secondary
Education curriculum based on the BNCC and the NEM Legal Framework, including learning
itineraries; (ii) the technical cooperation between MEC and SEEs; (iii) the periodic monitoring and
evaluation of the implementation and results of the Upper Secondary Reform; and (iv) the
optimization of existing resources and strengthening of accountability mechanisms between MEC
and SEEs in the implementation of the Upper Secondary Reform, to ensure proper implementation
standards, as further described below:
a) 
Strengthening the technical and operational capacity of MEC to support and monitor
the SEEs in the implementation of the Upper Secondary Education Reform within the
context of the BNCC and the flexible curriculum approach, in order to provide general
guidance, set goals and priorities to the implementation of said reform at the schools' level,
based on the international experiences, and through the carrying out of the following
activities: (i) an analysis of potential and specific challenges related to the implementation
of the reform for selected SEEs as well as recommendations based on this analysis; and (ii)
the establishment of a system to evaluate and adapt the implementation of the Upper
Secondary Education Reform.
b) 
Establishing a Staff Development and Training Program for MEC and SEEs for both
central administrators and local implementers, to strengthen the technical capacity and
relevant knowledge of the actors involved in the implementation of the Upper Secondary
Education Reform, including: (i) exchange experiences among States; and (ii) design and
implementation of training programs.
c) 
Building capacity at SEEs to improve planning, implementation, and monitoring of
the Upper Secondary Education Reform to respond to key challenges, such as, inter
alia: (i) the creation of the State level curricula; (ii) the setup of the school system,
including allocation of teachers and definition of learning paths; (iii) the design of a teacher
professional development initiatives for schools; (iv) the determination of potential
partners to deliver the new learnings paths; and (v) the design of an incentive mechanism
for the States to implement the necessary reforms, including the design of instruments and
monitoring systems for the implementation of the various elements of the Upper Secondary
Education Reform.
d) 
Developing instruments, models and studies to support MEC and the States to
implement and monitor the Upper Secondary Education Reform and make changes
accordingly using evidence, tools, and quality standards, including, inter alia: (i) studies
and tools to support the design of curricula and management of the Upper Secondary
Education Reform and assess their results; (ii) design of innovative tools to support the
implementation of the Upper Secondary Education Reform; (iii) design of a platform
-7-
providing data, studies and tools for SEEs; (iv) the carrying out of a study about gender
associated enrollment and drop-out rates, and based on said study, preparation and
implementation of an action plan; and (v) inputs to improve quality of the new curricula.
e) 
Carrying out of communication campaigns among the various units of MEC and other
Borrower's entities to facilitate the implementation of the new Upper Secondary Education
Reform by developing a series of strategies to guarantee education agents' participation in
the education reform process through an effective communication strategy, including, inter
alia: (i) public support for education innovations; and (ii) the strengthening of the
communication system to provide a permanent information channel within MEC, and
among MEC, SEEs and the public, including parents, students and stakeholders.
f) 
Strengthen the capacity of SEEs for managing social and environmental effects of the
Program through the elaboration of an environmental and social management guide,
including, inter alia : preservation of archaeological, paleontological, historical, cultural or
religious patrimony, management of environmental, health and safety risks; environmental
management of works and buildings; best practices related to reform and expansion of
schools; assessment and mitigation of risks of natural disasters; capacity building program
for engineering, environmental management and health and safety of SEEs teams;
sustainability of school buildings for energy efficiency, rational use of water and solid
waste management.
g) 
Establishing a Management Unit to strengthen the institutional capacity of SEB to
manage, administer, and supervise the implementation of the Operation, including support
on: (i) 
procurement, financial management, 
monitoring, 
evaluation, social and
environmental aspects, as well as technical aspects; (ii) the carrying out of the Operation
audits; and (iii) DLR compliance.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Operation Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arran2ements
A. 
Operational Manual
1. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the Borrower
shall carry out, and cause the Operation to be carried out, in accordance with the
Operational Manual, which shall include, inter alia: (a) the Program Action Plan; (b) the
Program Fiduciary, Environmental and Social Systems; (c) the Annual Targets and
Verification Protocols for DLIs and DLRs and the Result Monitoring Framework; (d) the
functions, responsibilities and composition of implementation units in MEC, SEB, FNDE,
and SEEs, in charge of the Program implementation, including their obligation to comply
with the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and follow-up on any related allegation; (e) a detailed
description of Project activities under its responsibility and institutional arrangements for
the Project; (f) the Project administrative, accounting, auditing, reporting, financial
(including cash flow aspects in relation thereto), procurement and disbursement
procedures; (g) the monitoring indicators for the Project; (h) the grievance mechanisms; (i)
the institutional and administrative arrangements established to ensure inter-institutional
coordination; and (j) the functions, responsibilities and composition of implementation
units in MEC and SEB in charge of the Project implementation, including their obligation
to comply with the provisions of paragraph B.3 below.
2. 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower shall not abrogate,
amend, suspend, waive or otherwise fail to enforce the Operational Manual or any
provision thereof.
3. 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and this Agreement,
the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
B. 
Institutional and Safeguard Arrangements
1 .
Operation Institutions:
(a) 
Without limitation to the provisions of Part A of this Section I, the Borrower shall,
no later than ninety (90) days after the Effective Date, establish and thereafter
operate and maintain, at all times during the execution of the Operation, a PMU
within SEB to implement, coordinate, monitor and report on the execution of the
Operation, with powers, functions, key staff (with a coordinator, a financial
management specialist, a procurement specialist, and a monitoring and evaluation
specialist), capacity and resources, all satisfactory to the Bank, to discharge such
functions under the Operation, as further detailed in the Operational Manual.
(b) 
For purposes of carrying out the Program activities that fall under the
administrative jurisdiction of FNDE, the Borrower through MEC shall cause
FNDE, within its legal mandate and as further described in more details in the
Operational Manual, to discharge its functions under the Program.
2. 
NEM Portaria Commitment Agreements and FTS Portaria Commitment Agreements:
(a) 
To facilitate the carrying out the Program, the Borrower through MEC shall sign
the NEM Portaria Commitment Agreements and thereafter maintain the NEM
Portaria Commitment Agreements 
and 
the FTS Portaria Commitment
Agreements under terms and conditions approved by the Bank, including, inter
alia, the obligation of SEEs to: (i) carry out the activities which fall within their
administrative jurisdiction under the Program; and (ii) comply with the pertinent
provisions of this Schedule as applicable to SEEs, including compliance with the
provisions of the Operational Manual and the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
(b) 
The Borrower, through MEC, shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations
under each NEM Portaria Commitment Agreement and each FTS Portaria
Commitment Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower,
the States and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Operation Loan.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower, through MEC,
shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any NEM
Portaria Commitment Agreement, any FTS Portaria Commitment Agreement, or
any of their provisions.
3. 
Safeguards:
The Borrower through MEC shall ensure that the terms of reference for any consultancy in
respect of any activity under Part 2 of the Operation shall: (a) duly incorporate, in the
opinion of the Bank, the requirements of the applicable Bank Safeguards Policies then in
force; and (b) require that the advice conveyed through any such consultancy comply, in
the opinion of the Bank, with the requirement of the applicable Bank Safeguards Policies
then in force.
Section II. 
Excluded Activities
The Borrower through MEC shall ensure that the Program excludes any activities which:
A. 
in the opinion of the Bank, are likely to have significant adverse impacts that are sensitive,
diverse, or unprecedented on the environment and/or affected people; or
B. 
involve the procurement of: (a) works, estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent or more
per contract; (b) goods, estimated to cost $30,000,000 equivalent or more per contract; (c)
non-consulting services, estimated to cost $20,000,000 equivalent or more per contract; or
(d) consulting services, estimated to cost $15,000.000 equivalent or more per contract.
Section III. 
Program Monitorin2, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Program and Project Reports
-10-
The Borrower through MEC shall furnish to the Bank each Program Report and Project
Report not later than three (3) months after the end of each Fiscal Year, covering said Fiscal
Year.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article I of the Program General Conditions and
Article II of the Project General Conditions, and in accordance with the Disbursement and
Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Program
Loan and Project Loan to:
(a) 
with respect to the Program: (i) finance the results ("Disbursement Linked
Results" or "DLRs") achieved by the Borrower, as measured against specific
indicators ("Disbursement Linked Indicators" or "DLIs") in the amounts allocated
against Categories (1) through (10); (ii) pay the Front-end Fee; and (iii) pay the
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar premium, all as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 of this Part A; and
(b) 
with respect to the Project: (i) finance the Eligible Expenditures in the amount
allocated or, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth against said Category; (ii)
pay the Front-end Fee; and (iii) pay the Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar
premium, all as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 of this Part A.
2. 
The following table specifies: (a) each category of withdrawal of the proceeds of the
Program Loan (including the Disbursement Linked Indicators as applicable) ("Category"),
and the allocation of the amounts of the Program Loan to each Category; and (b) the
categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed out of the proceeds of the Project
Loan ("Category"), the allocations of the amounts of the Project Loan to each Category,
and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each said
Category:
Category 
Amount of the 
Amount of the 
Percentage of
(including 
Program Loan 
Project Loan 
Eligible
Disbursement Linked 
Allocated to DLRs 
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
Indicator as applicable) 
(expressed in USD) 
(expressed in USD) 
financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) DLI #1: The MEC
NEM Portaria regulating
the support to the Upper
Secondary Education
Reform has been 
15,000,000
published by MEC 
0 
N/A
(2) DLI #2: Number of
States that formally
signed a NEM Portaria 
0 
N/A
Commitment Agreement 
12,500,000
(3) DLI #3: Number of
States that achieved 75%
of the key objectives 
32,947,500 
0 
N/A
included in their NEM
Implementation Plans
(4) DLI #4: Number of
States that have their
curricula adapted to
NEM, validated and
published by each State
(5) DLI #5: Number of
States that have trained at 
25,000,000 
0 
N/A
least 40% of school
principals and school
coordinators in the New
State Curriculum
(6) DLI #6: Number of
States with schools in
NEM Implementation
Pilots
(7) DLI #7: Number of
States that have their 
15,000,000 
0 
N/A
revised FTS
Implementation Plans
approved by MEC
(8) DLI #8: Evaluations
and adjustment of the 
32,500,000 
0 
N/A
FTS program have been
carried out.
(9) DLI #9: Percentage of 
30,000,000 
0 
N/A
agreed FTS key process
targets achieved by States
as included in their FTS
Implementation Plans
- 12-
(10) DLI #10: Number of
States with NEM
Implementation Plans 
0 
N/A
with specific strategies to
implement NEM in
Vulnerable Schools
(11) Goods, non-
consulting services, 
28,927,500 
100%
consulting services, 
0
Operating Costs and
Training for the Project
(12) Front-end Fee to be
paid pursuant to Section
2.03 of this Agreement in
accordance with Section
2.05 (b) of the Program 
552,500 
72,500 
100%
General Conditions and
Section 2.07 (b) of the
Project General
Conditions
(13) Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar
premium to be paid 
0 
100%
pursuant to Section 4.05
(c) of the General
Conditions
Total Amount of the
Program Loan 
221,000,000 
Total Amount of the
Project Loan 
-
29,000,000
Total Amount of the 
250,000,000
Operation Loan
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions for the Program
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
for purposes of Section 2.03 of the Program General Conditions, for DLRs
achieved prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed $30,000,000 may be made for such DLRs, as further
described and detailed in the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter,
achieved prior to this date but on or after July 13, 2017; and
-13 
(b) 
for any DLR (as further described and detailed in the Disbursement and Financial
Information Letter) under Categories (1) to (10) until and unless the Borrower has
furnished evidence satisfactory to the Bank that said DLR has been achieved, as
further detailed in the Verification Protocols.
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.1 of this Section, the Borrower may withdraw an
amount not to exceed $55,250,000 as an advance under the Program Loan; provided,
however, that if the DLRs (as further described and detailed in the Disbursement and
Financial Information Letter) in the opinion of the Bank, are not achieved (or only partially
achieved) by the Closing Date, the Borrower shall refund such advance (or portion of such
advance as determined by the Bank in accordance with the provisions of the Disbursement
and Financial Information Letter) to the Bank promptly upon notice thereof by the Bank.
Except as otherwise agreed with the Borrower, the Bank shall cancel the amount so
refunded. Any further withdrawals requested as an advance under any Category shall be
permitted only on such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.1 of this Section, if any of the DLRs under
Categories (1) to (10), except for Non-Scalable DLRs, as further described and detailed in
the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, has not been achieved by the date by
which the said DLR is set to be achieved (as per the Disbursement and Financial
Information Letter), the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (a) authorize the withdrawal
of such lesser amount of the unwithdrawn proceeds of the Program Loan then allocated to
said Category which, in the opinion of the Bank, corresponds to the extent of achievement
of said DLRs (Scalable DLRs), said lesser amount to be calculated in accordance with the
formula set out in the Operational Manual; (b) reallocate all or a portion of the proceeds of
the Program Loan then allocated to said DLRs to any other DLR within the same DLI;
and/or (c) cancel all or a portion of the proceeds of the Program Loan then allocated to said
DLR.
C. 
Withdrawal Conditions for the Project
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph B.1 of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the Signature Date.
D. 
Operation Withdrawal Period
The Closing Date is December 31, 2023. The Bank may grant an extension of the Closing
Date only after the Borrower's Ministry of Finance has informed the Bank that it agrees
with such extension.
-14-
SCHEDULE3
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Operation Loan in full on December
15, 2037.
-15-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Annual Targets and Protocols for DLIs and DLRs" means the milestones/values to be
achieved under each DLI and DLR, including scalability criteria and detailed protocols to
assess compliance of said DLLs and DLRs, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank
and attached to the Operational Manual, as said targets and protocols may be amended
from time to time with the prior and written agreement of the Bank.
2. 
"Anti-corruption Guidelines" means: (a) for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to
the General Conditions for the Program, the Bank's "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Program-for-Results Financing," dated February 1,
2012, and revised July 10, 2015; and (b) for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to
the General Conditions for the Project, the Bank's "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
and Grants" dated February 1, 2012, and revised as of July 1, 2016.
3. 
"Bank's Safeguards Policies" means the Bank's operational policies and procedures, set
forth in the Bank's operational manual and identified as OP/BP 4.01, 4.04, 4.09, 4.10, 4.11,
4.12, 4.36 and 4.37, as said manual is published under www.WorldBank.org/opmanual.
4. 
"BNCC" means Base Nacional Comum Curricular, the Borrower's national common core
curriculum, established under the Borrower's Law No 9.394 dated December 20, 1996.
5. 
"Category" means any of the disbursement categories set forth in the table in Section
IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
6. 
"Disbursement Linked Indicator" or "DLI" means, in respect of a given Category, the
indicator related to said Category as set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
7. 
"Disbursement Linked Result" or "DLR" means in respect of a given Category under the
table in Section IV.A. I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the result under said Category as
set forth in the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter on the basis of the
achievement of which, the amount of the Loan allocated to said result may be withdrawn
in accordance with the provisions of said Disbursement and Financial Information Letter.
8. 
"ENEM" means "Exame Nacional do Ensino Mdio ", the Borrower's upper secondary
education national test, as established under the Borrower's Law No 9.394, dated
December 20, 1996.
9. 
"Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year commencing every 1St of January and
finishing every 31st of December each calendar year.
10. 
"FNDE" means "Fundo Nacional de Desenvolvimento da Educaqdo", the Borrower's
National Fund for the Development of Education, as established and operating under the
Borrower's Law No. 5.537 dated November 21, 1968.
-16-
11. 
"FTS" means "Full-Time Schools", as defined in the NEM Legal Framework.
12. 
"FTS Implementation Plans" means the plans to be prepared by SEEs for the
implementation of NEM under the FTS Portaria Commitment Agreements.
13. 
"FTS Portaria Commitment Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in
Section I.B.2 of Schedule 2 of this Agreement, as signed between the States and the
Borrower in accordance with the MEC FTS Portaria, and "FTS Portaria Commitment
Agreements" means several or all such agreements.
14. 
"General Conditions" means the General Conditions for the Program and the General
Conditions for the Project.
15. 
"General Conditions for the Program" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Program-for-Results
Financing", dated July 14, 2017 applicable to the Program Loan, with the modifications
set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
16. 
"General Conditions for the Project" means "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing",
dated July 14, 2017, applicable to the Project Loan with the modifications set forth in
Section III of this Appendix.
17. 
"Index of Basic Education Development" means indice de Desenvolvimento da Educaqdo
Bdsica, the Borrower's index of basic education development calculated by MEC every
two years based on students' performance in Portuguese and in mathematics and on
student's pass rates and retention rates.
18. 
"MEC" means "Ministrio da EducaVdo ", the Borrower's Ministry of Education.
19. 
"MEC FTS Portaria" means MEC regulation No. 727 dated June 13, 2017, establishing
new directives, parameters and criteria for the implementation of FTS; in line with the
NEM Legal Framework.
20. 
"MEC NEM Portaria" means the regulation to be adopted by MEC under DLI #1 in order
to establish the guidelines, parameters and criteria for the NEM implementation and to be
interpreted in conjunction with the resolution to be adopted and published by FNDE in
order to define disbursement aspects of said MEC regulation; both in line with the NEM
Legal Framework.
21. 
"MEC Portarias" means collectively the MEC NEM Portaria and MEC FTS Portaria.
22. 
"NEM" means Novo Ensino Medio, the Borrower's new Upper Secondary Education
system, as established and operating under the NEM Legal Framework.
-17- 
Cr,
23. 
"NEM Implementation Pilots" means the initiatives to be carried out by SEEs for the
implementation of NEM in selected pilot schools under the NEM Portaria Commitment
Agreements.
24. 
"NEM Implementation Plans" means the plans to be prepared by SEEs for the
implementation of NEM under the NEM Portaria Commitment Agreements.
25. 
"NEM Legal Framework" means the Borrower's Law No. 13.415 dated February 16, 2017.
26. 
"NEM Portaria Commitment Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in
Section I.B.2 of Schedule 2 of this Agreement, as signed between the States and the
Borrower in accordance with the MEC NEM Portaria and "NEM Portaria Commitment
Agreements" means several or all such agreements.
27. 
"New State Curriculum" means the curriculum defined by each State, in accordance with
the NEM Legal Framework.
28. 
"Non-Scalable DLRs" means the DLRs that cannot be achieved partially and which require
full attainment to trigger a disbursement, as further detailed in the Disbursement and
Financial Information Letter.
29. 
"Operating Costs" means the reasonable incremental operational costs related to technical
and administrative management, preparation, monitoring and supervision required under
the Project, including inter alia, office equipment, supplies, travel costs (including
accommodations, transportation costs and per diem), printing services, communication
costs, utilities, maintenance of office equipment and facilities, vehicle operation and
maintenance costs, and logistics services.
30. 
"Operation" means collectively the Program and the Project.
31. 
"Operational Manual" means the manual dated November 14, 2017 in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, as approved by the Borrower, and referred to in Section I.A of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as said manual may be amended from time to time with the
prior and written agreement of the Bank.
32. 
"PMU" means "Project Management Unit", the unit to be established within SEB in order
to implement, monitor and manage the Operation, or any successor to said PMU acceptable
to the Bank.
33. 
"Procurement Regulations" means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions for the Project, the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for
Borrowers under Investment Project Financing", dated July 1, 2016.
34. 
"Program Action Plan" means the Borrower's plan in form and substance satisfactory to
the Bank and referred to in Section I.A. 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and attached to
the Operational Manual, as said plan may be amended from time to time with the prior and
written agreement of the Bank.
- 18-
35. 
"Program Fiduciary, Environmental and Social Systems" means the Borrower's systems
for the Program referred to in Section I.A. 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and attached
to the Operational Manual, as said systems may be amended from time to time with the
prior and written agreement of the Bank.
36. 
"Result Monitoring Framework" means the Borrower's monitoring framework including
the performance indicators for the Program and attached to the Operational Manual, as said
indicators may be amended from time to time with the prior and written agreement of the
Bank.
37. 
"Scalable DLRs" means the DLRs that can be achieved partially and which do not require
full attainment to trigger a disbursement, as further detailed in the Disbursement and
Financial Information Letter.
38. 
"SEB" means Secretaria da Educaqdo Bdsica, the Borrower's Secretariat of Basic
Education within MEC, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
39. 
"SEE" means Secretaria Estadual ou Distrital da Educaqdo, any State or Federal District
secretariat for education, and "SEEs" means several such secretariats.
40. 
"Signature Date" means the latest of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applied to all references to "the date of the Loan
Agreement" in the Program General Conditions and in the Project General Conditions.
41. 
"State" means any of the Borrower's 26 States and the Federal District which has signed a
NEM Portaria Commitment Agreement or a FTS Portaria Commitment Agreements with
MEC for the implementation by the SEEs of the Program.
42. 
"Training" means expenditures (other than those for consulting services) incurred in
connection with the carrying out of training, seminars, and workshops, including the
reasonable travel costs (e.g. accommodations, transportation costs and per diem) of trainees
and trainers (if applicable), catering, rental of training facilities and equipment, logistics
and printing services, as well as training materials and equipment under the Project.
43. 
"Upper Secondary Education" means the last three years of the secondary education system
in the Borrower's territory, as established under the Law No 9.394, dated December 20,
1996.
44. 
"Upper Secondary Education Reform" means the Borrower's upper secondary education
reform, as established and operating under the NEM Legal Framework and supported
through the Program.
45. 
"Verification Protocols" means the protocol agreed by the Bank and the Borrower to verify
the data and other evidence supporting the achievement of one or more DLIs and DLRs as
specified in the Operational Manual. Such protocols may be modified from time to time
with the agreement of the Bank.
-19-
46. 
"Vulnerable School" means schools in the Borrower's territory which are in the bottom 40
percent in the State socio-economic level indicator ranking, as calculated by the Borrower's
Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais Anisio Teixeira each Fiscal Year.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions for the Program
The General Conditions for the Program are hereby modified as follows:
(a) 
The definition of the term "Loan Payment" in paragraph 74 of the Appendix is modified to
include "Exposure Surcharge" and read as follows:
"74. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Program Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these Program General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Program Loan Balance, interest, the
Front-end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any
prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a
Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, any Unwinding Amount
payable by the Borrower; and the Exposure Surcharge."
Section III. 
Modifications to the General Conditions for the Project
The General Conditions for the Project are hereby modified as follows:
(a) 
The definition of the term "Loan Payment" in Paragraph 75 of the Appendix is modified
to include "Exposure Surcharge" and read as follows:
"75. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Project Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these Project General Conditions, including (but
not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Project Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end
Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower; and the Exposure Surcharge."
-20-
