OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8820-ME
Loan Agreement
(Second Institutional Development and Agriculture Strengthening Project)
between
MONTENEGRO
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between MONTENEGRO ("Borrower") and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of thirty million Euro, (EUR
30,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Fixed Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-2-
ARTICLE IV -EFFECTIVENESS
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that the
Project Operational Manual has been adopted by the Borrower in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower's address is:
Ministry of Finance
Stanka Dragojevica 2
81000 Podgorica
Montenegro
and
(b) 
the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile: 
E-mail:
382 20 224 450 
mf@mif.gov.me
5.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
and
(b) 
the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-3-
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
MONTENEGRO
By
Authoriled Representative
Name: 
) 
C
Title: 
\C 
v
Date: 
hO\
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONST UCTIO 
AND DEVE OPMENT
By
Authori e 
rese tative
Nae: 
JkfNA
Date: 
C 
0
-4-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve the competitiveness of agriculture and fisheries
in Montenegro through enhanced delivery of Borrower's support in alignment with EU accession
requirements.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A. Strengthening MARD Agriculture, Rural Development and Fisheries Programs
1 .
Increasing and diversifying income generation opportunities through grants for rural
development, agriculture and fisheries Sub-projects, including through the following:
Provision of agriculture, rural development and fisheries Grants to Beneficiaries to carry
out target measures and implement direct support for rural development measures,
including through, inter alia: (a) piloting further 
EU 
IPARD-like 
measures;
(b) implementing direct payment measures towards harmonization with EU Common
Agricultural 
Policy 
(CAP); 
(c) 
supporting 
production 
and 
processing
associations/collection centers; and (d) carrying out fisheries investments in preparation
for the implementation of the European Maritime Fisheries Fund (EMFF).
2. 
Strengthening MARD towards fulfilling EU accession requirements, including through the
following:
(a) Strengthening the Directorate for Payments (DfP) management capacity and
development of the IACS applications; (b) strengthening the Advisory Services and DfP
system at the regional level; (c) upgrading offices for DfP and the Advisory Services,
including through carrying out of works for rehabilitation of existing offices, provision of
equipment and necessary hardware and software installation; and (d) strengthening
capacity of the Department of Rural Development (DfRD), Department of Agriculture
(DfA) and DfP.
Part B. SuDort for the Food Safety, Veterinary and Phytosanitary Services
1 .
Safe management of animal by-products (ABPs), including through the following:
(a) 
establishment of a comprehensive system for the processing and/or disposal for
ABPs through the design of a control system for the safe management of ABPs;
(b) 
carrying out of training to inspectors and business operators in alignment with the
relevant food safety provisions of the EU acquis; and
(c) 
carrying out of public information and awareness activities addressed at food
production/processing industry.
-5-
2. 
Strengthening the diagnostic capacity of MARD's phytosanitary laboratory, through:
(a) 
preparing the designs for the construction of laboratory facilities, including the
carrying out of related works, as well as provision of laboratory equipment and
laboratory furniture;
(b) 
development of an instrument to ensure efficient inter-agency collaboration
between the AFSVPA and the NRL; and
(c) 
support NRL to obtain accreditation of priority tests and methods and strengthen
its institutional capacity.
3. 
Support to inspectors of the AFSVPA to implement effectively the enhanced official risk-
based food safety control regime.
Part C. Modernization of the Fisheries Sector
1. 
Development of a network of landing sites with enhanced access to auxiliary services,
including through the design of infrastructure improvement and subsequent carrying out of
works for rehabilitation of existing infrastructure in the port cities of: a) Bar; (b) Herceg
Novi; and (c) other localities in which fishing landing sites may be developed.
2. 
Support to the MARD's Directorate for Fisheries and association of fishermen to enhance
the productive capacity of the sector and strengthen institutional capacity.
Part D. Project Management
Strengthening the Borrower's Project management, monitoring and evaluation and
safeguards' capacity through the provision of goods, consulting services and Training,
audits and Operating Costs.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, throughout the duration of the Project, (a) the Project
Steering Committee and (b) the Project Management Team, all with a composition and
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower shall maintain, throughout the duration of the Project, the TSU with a
composition, staff, resources and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through TSU, shall be responsible for procurement, financial management
and disbursement activities under the Project in accordance with the provisions of this
Agreement, the Project Operational Manual, the Grant Operational Manuals, the Project
Procurement Strategy for Development and the Procurement Plan, and, to this end, the
Borrower shall maintain, throughout the duration of the Project, the TSU with a
composition, staff, resources, and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
4. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with this Agreement, the Project
Operational Manual and the Grant Operational Manuals, and shall not amend, suspend,
abrogate, repeal or waive any provision of said manuals without the prior written approval
of the Bank. In case of any discrepancy between the terms of said manuals and those of
this Agreement, those of this Agreement shall prevail.
B. 
Sub-projects
1. 
The Borrower shall select, appraise, implement, and evaluate Sub-projects under Part A. I
of the Project in accordance with the principles, procedures and requirements set forth in
the Grant Operational Manuals, Procurement Regulations, Anti-Corruption Guidelines,
and the ESMF.
2. 
The Borrower shall provide each Grant under a Grant Agreement with the respective
Beneficiary on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include the
following:
(a) 
the Grant shall be denominated in EUR; and
(b) 
the Borrower shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and those of the
Bank, including the right to:
(i) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the
Grant, or obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount of the Grant, upon
the Beneficiary's failure to perform any of its obligations under the Grant
Agreement; and
-7-
(ii) 
require each Beneficiary to: (A) carry out its Sub-project with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
economic, financial, managerial, environmental, and social standards and
practices satisfactory to the Bank, including in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of
loan proceeds other than the Borrower, and the ESMF; (B) provide,
promptly as needed, the resources required for the purpose; (C) procure
the goods, works and services to be financed out of the Grant in
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, and the Procurement
Regulations; (D) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank,
the progress of the Sub-project and the achievement of its objectives;
(E) (1) maintain a financial management system and prepare financial
statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards
acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations,
resources and expenditures related to the Sub-project; and (2) at the Bank's
or the Borrower's request, have such financial statements audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, and
promptly furnish the statements as so audited to the Borrower and the
Bank; (F) enable the Borrower and the Bank to inspect the Sub-project, its
operation and any relevant records and documents; and (G) prepare and
furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such information as the Borrower
or the Bank shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing.
3. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each Grant
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Grant Agreement or any of its
provisions.
C. 
Safeguards
1 .
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the ESMF as applicable, and
shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any of their provisions without the
prior written approval of the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that no Loan proceeds are used to finance: (a) infrastructure that
directly uses or discharges into International Waterways; (b) activities that correspond to a
Category A Project or require a full environmental impact assessment under the Borrower's
laws; and (c) purchase of pesticides, or investments or activities involving Involuntary
Resettlement.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than thirty (30) days
after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar semester.
Section III. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in
accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible Expenditures; and (b) pay: (i) the
Front-end Fee; and (ii) each Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar premium in the
amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category of
the following table:
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Category 
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in EURO) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non-consulting
services, 
and 
consulting
services, 
Training 
and 
13,778,000 
100%
Operating Costs for Parts A.2
B, C and D of the Project
(2) Grants under Part A. 1 of the 
16,147,000 
100%
Project
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 
2.03 
of 
this
(3) Front-end Fee 
75,000 
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions
(4) Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
Amount 
due 
pursuant 
to
Rate Collar premium 
0 
Section 4.05 (c) of the General
Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
30,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the Signature Date; or
(b) 
for expenditures under Category (2), unless the Borrower has approved the Grant
Operational Manual for the first call for Grants in form and substance satisfactory
to the Bank.
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2023.
-9-
SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date ("Installment Share").
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
February 15, 2023 
1.84%
August 15, 2023 
1.87%
February 15, 2024 
1.90%
August 15, 2024 
1.92%
February 15, 2025 
1.95%
August 15, 2025 
1.98%
February 15, 2026 
2.01%
August 15, 2026 
2.04%
February 15, 2027 
2.07%
August 15, 2027 
2.10%
February 15, 2028 
2.14%
August 15, 2028 
2.17%
February 15, 2029 
2.20%
August 15, 2029 
2.23%
February 15, 2030 
2.27%
August 15, 2030 
2.30%
February 15, 2031 
2.33%
August 15, 2031 
2.37%
February 15, 2032 
2.41%
August 15, 2032 
2.44%
February 15, 2033 
2.48%
August 15, 2033 
2.52%
February 15, 2034 
2.55%
August 15, 2034 
2.59%
February 15, 2035 
2.63%
August 15, 2035 
2.67%
February 15, 2036 
2.71%
August 15, 2036 
2.75%
February 15, 2037 
2.79%
August 15, 2037 
2.83%
February 15, 2038 
2.88%
August 15, 2038 
2.92%
February 15, 2039 
2.96%
August 15, 2039 
3.01%
February 15, 2040 
3.05%
August 15, 2040 
3.10%
February 15, 2041 
3.14%
August 15, 2041 
3.19%
February 15, 2042 
3.24%
August 15, 2042 
3.45%
-10-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1 .
"ABPs" means animal by-products.
2. 
"Advisory Services" means the Division for advisory affairs in plant production and the
Division for advisory affairs in livestock production within the MARD, established on
March 27, 2017 by MARD's internal order 011-7/17.
3. 
"AFSVPA" means Administration for Food Safety, Veterinary and Phytosanitary Affairs,
the Borrower's agency to perform tasks related to: food and feed safety at all stages of
production, processing and distribution, import and for veterinary and phytosanitary affairs
established on October 7, 2015 by the Law on Food Safety published in the Borrower's
Official Gazette No. 57/15.
4. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption
in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006
and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
5. 
"Beneficiary" means a recipient of a Grant under Part A.1 of the Project, and includes
private agricultural holdings, producer organizations, NGOs, agricultural cooperatives, and
enterprises, all selected in accordance with criteria and procedures set forth in the Grant
Operational Manual, and "Beneficiaries" means more than one such Beneficiary.
6. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
7. 
"Category A Project" means an investment that, in the opinion of the Bank, is likely to
have significant adverse environmental 
impacts that are sensitive, 
diverse, 
or
unprecedented. These impacts may affect an area broader than the sites or facilities subject
to physical works.
8. 
"DfP" or "Directorate for Payments" means MARD's body, established on October 27,
2011 through Borrower Decision No. 03-7161/4 and responsible for, inter alia:
(i) processing aid applications for programs under its jurisdiction; (ii) authorizing and
executing payments in line with eligibility criteria; (iii) organizing related on-the-spot ex-
ante and ex-post controls; and (iv) carrying out related internal audits.
9. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the framework
dated November 17, 2017, prepared and adopted by the Borrower and satisfactory to the
Bank, consisting of a set of mitigation, monitoring, and institutional measures (including
measures for pest management and aimed to avoid any negative impact on natural habitats,
forests and physical cultural resources), required for the Project and to be taken to eliminate
adverse environmental and social impacts, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels,
as well as actions needed to implement said measures, including the measures and
information required for the preparation of site-specific environmental and social
management plans.
-11-
10. 
"EU" means the European Union.
11. 
"EU acquis" means the body of common rights and obligations that is binding on all the
EU member states.
12. 
"EU CAP" or "Common Agricultural Policy" means the set of legislation and practices
adopted by the EU to provide a common, unified policy on agriculture.
13. 
"EU-IPARD" means the European Union Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance for
Rural Development.
14. 
"European Maritime Fisheries Fund" or "EMFF" means the EU Fund for maritime and
fisheries policies for the period 2014-2020.
15. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing", dated July 14,
2017.
16. 
"Grant" means a grant made or proposed to be made by the Borrower to a Beneficiary for
purposes of financing the activities of a Sub-Project under Part A.1 of the Project; and
"Grants" means more than one such grant.
17. 
"Grant Agreement" means the agreement entered into between the Borrower and a
Beneficiary according to terms and conditions set forth under Section I. B.2 of Schedule 2
to this Agreement, as such agreement may be amended from time to time by its parties.
18. 
"Grant Operational Manual" means the manual, to be revised yearly by the Borrower for
each annual call for Grant proposals, describing the procedures for implementing the
Grants under Part A. I of the Project, to be approved by the Borrower pursuant to Section
III.B.1(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and including, inter alia: (a) adequate
procedures and controls relating to eligibility, evaluation, selection, procurement, and flow
of funds for Grants, with a view to ensure use of funds for intended purposes; and
(b) adequate environmental and social safeguard measures, including the ESMF, as said
manual may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
19. 
"IACS" means the European Union's Integrated Administrative and Control System aimed
at ensuring that transactions financed by the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund are
actually carried out and executed correctly, and to prevent and deal with any irregularities.
20. 
"International Waterways" means waters of a trans-boundary river or a tributary to such
river, including (a) any river, canal, lake, or similar body of water that forms a boundary
between, or any river or body of surface water that flows through, two or more states,
whether Bank members or not; (b) any tributary or other body of surface water that is a
component of any waterway described in (a) above; and (c) any bay, gulf, strait, or channel
bounded by two or more states or, if within one state, recognized as a necessary channel of
communication between the open sea and other states--and any river flowing into such
waters.
21. 
"Involuntary Resettlement" means any direct economic and social impact caused by:
(a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of
-12-
assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or
not such persons must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access
to legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the
livelihood of such persons.
22. 
"MARD" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development and any
successor thereto.
23. 
"NRL" means the Borrower's national reference laboratory.
24. 
"Operating Costs" means the incremental expenses incurred by the TSU on account of
Project related communication and office supplies and the incremental expenses incurred
by the PMT on account of the Project management, monitoring and evaluation, which may
include the maintenance of a vehicle (including fuel costs), costs of office and equipment
rental and maintenance, translation and interpretation, communication, printing and
publications, supplies, local field trips and study tours expenses (including per diem),
reasonable bank charges, and other miscellaneous costs directly associated with the Project
implementation, all based on periodic budgets acceptable to the Bank.
25. 
"PMT" or "Project Management Team" means the Project management team established
by MARD, and responsible for the overall implementation, coordination, monitoring and
evaluation of the Project.
26. 
"Procurement Regulations" means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, "The World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF Borrowers", dated
July 1, 2016 revised November 2017.
27. 
"Project Procurement Strategy for Development" or "PPSD" means the strategy document
for the Project, prepared and adopted by the Borrower on November 14, 2017 describing
the carrying out of World Bank-financed projects' procurement.
28. 
"Project Operational Manual" means the Borrower's manual acceptable to the Bank
describing the procedures for Project implementation, including, inter alia, procedures
governing staffing, procurement, accounting, financial management, (including adequate
measures for procurement and forensic audits), environmental and social safeguards, and
monitoring and evaluation arrangements, as said manual may be amended from time to
time with the agreement of the Bank.
29. 
"Project Steering Committee" means the committee chaired by the MARD and to be
established by MARD for the purposes of overall Project oversight.
30. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the date of the Loan
Agreement" in the General Conditions.
31. 
"Sub-project" means any of the activities and/or investments under Part A. 1 of the Project
which have been selected and approved by the Borrower to be financed by a Grant in
accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth in the Grant Operational Manual.
-13-
32. 
"Training" means Project related study tours, training courses, seminars, workshops and
other training activities not included under goods or service providers' contracts, including
training materials, space and equipment rental, travel, accommodation and per diem costs
of trainees and trainers, trainers' fees, and other training related miscellaneous inputs, as
approved by the Bank.
33. 
"TSU" or "Technical Services Unit" means the technical service unit established by the
Borrower's Ministry of Finance and responsible for the fiduciary (procurement and
financial management) and disbursement aspects of the Project.
