OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
SCF-PPCR LOAN NUMBER TF016912
Strategic Climate Fund
Pilot Program for Climate Resilience
Agreement Providing for the Amendment
and Restatement of the
Loan Agreement
(Disaster Vulnerability Reduction Project)
between
COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
acting as an Implementing Entity of the Pilot Program for
Climate Resilience under the Strategic Climate Fund
Dated June 10, 2014
As Amended and Restated as of the Signature Date
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
SCF-PPCR LOAN NUMBER TF016912
STRATEGIC CLIMATE FUND LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated June 10, 2014 entered into between COMMONWEALTH
OF 
DOMINICA 
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION ("World Bank" or "Association"), acting not in its individual capacity but
solely in its capacity as an implementing entity of the Pilot Program for Climate Resilience
("PPCR") under the Strategic Climate Fund ("SCF"), as amended and restated as of the
Signature Date.
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower and the International Development Association,
entered into a financing agreement (Financing Agreement) for the purpose of providing a
credit to the Borrower to assist in financing Parts A and C of the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Financing Agreement.
(B) 
the Borrower and the International Development Association, acting as an
implementing entity of the Pilot Program for Climate Resilience (Pilot Program for Climate
Resilience (PPCR)) under the Strategic Climate Fund, entered into a grant agreement
(PPCR Grant Agreement) for the purpose of making a grant to the Borrower to assist in
financing Parts A, B and D of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the PPCR
Grant Agreement; and
NOW THEREFORE, the Borrower and the World Bank hereby agree as follows:
Article I
Standard Conditions; Definitions
1.01. 
The Standard Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
Article II
Loan
2.01. 
The World Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in this Agreement, the amount of nine million United States
Dollars ($9,000,000) ("Loan"), to assist in financing Part A of the project described
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
-2-
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Loan is funded out of the resources made available to the World Bank as an
implementing entity of the SCF. In accordance with Section 3.02 of the Standard
Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement), the World Bank's
payment obligations in connection with this Agreement are limited to the amount of
funds made available to it from the SCF trust fund, and the Borrower's right to
withdraw the Loan proceeds is subject to the availability of such funds.
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Borrower on the Withdrawn Loan Balance
shall be equal to one-tenth of one percent (1/10 of 1%) per annum.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 1 and August 1 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the repayment
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is USD.
Article III
The Project
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of
Article II of the Standard Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Article IV
Effectiveness; Termination
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
the Amended and Restated Financing Agreement, the Amended and
Restated PPCR Grant Agreement, 
and the Additional Financing
Agreement, have been executed and delivered and all conditions precedent
to their effectiveness (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement) have
been fulfilled; and
(b) 
the Recipient has updated the Project Operations Manual for Parts A, B
and D of the Project, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association.
-3-
4.02. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the Standard Conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
Article V
Borrower's Representative; Addresses
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative referred to in Section 10.02 of the Standard
Conditions is the Minister responsible for finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard Conditions
is:
Ministry of Finance
Financial Centre
Kennedy Avenue, Roseau
Commonwealth of Dominica
Facsimile:
1-767-448-0054
5.03. 
The World Bank's Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard Conditions
is:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INDEVAS 
248423 (MCI) 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.
-4-
AGREED at Roseau, Commonwealth of Dominica, as of the day and year above
written, as amended and restated as of the Signature Date.
COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: Mrs. Rosamund Edwards
Title: 
Financial Secretary
Date: 
November 27, 2018
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
acting as an Implementing Entity of the Pilot Program for
Climate Resilience under the Strategic Climate Fund
By
Authorized Representative
Name: Tahseen Saved
Title: 
Country Director, Caribbean Country
Management Unit, Latin American and
the Caribbean Region
Date: 
November 27, 2018
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to reduce vulnerability to natural hazards and
climate change impacts in the Borrower's territory through: (i) investment in resilient
infrastructure, and (ii) improved hazard data collection and monitoring systems.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: Prevention and Adaptation Investments
1. 
Carrying out of selected infrastructure investments, including: (a) construction of
water storage and distribution infrastructure; (b) slope stabilization; and (c)
rehabilitation of transportation infrastructure including, inter alia, selected primary
and secondary roads and bridges, all through the provision of works, technical
advisory services, operating costs and acquisition of goods.
Part B: Capacity Building and Data Development, Hazard Risk Management and
Evaluation
1. 
Building the capacity for analysis and assessment of risks from natural hazards and
climate change, including integration of such analysis into policy and decision
making process for the development of investments, and developing data
collection systems, including, inter alia: (a) creation of high resolution digital
topographic and bathymetric model for the Recipient; (b) creation of a high
resolution soils survey map; (c) design and deployment of robust hydromet
network; and (d) development of district and community level climate adaptation
plans, all through the provision of technical advisory services and training, and
acquisition of goods.
Part C: Natural Disaster Response Investments
1. 
Carrying out of Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction Subprojects.
Part D: Project Management and Implementation Support
1. 
Strengthening the institutional capacity for Project management, including: (a)
strengthening the capacity and staffing of the PCU; (b) preparation of investment
designs and tender documents; (c) preparation of Project reports; (d) processing of
contracts and tender evaluation; (e) coordination of participating line ministries;
(f) supervision of the quality of works; (g) provision of training of staff of the PCU
in Project management and implementation support; (h) monitoring and evaluation
of the Project progress and results; and (i) carrying out related activities on Project
-6-
management and implementation, all through the provision of technical advisory
services, training and operating costs, and acquisition of goods.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
Project Steering Committee
(a) 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Steering Committee is
maintained at all times during the implementation of the Project, with a
composition, mandate, and in form and substance satisfactory to the World
Bank.
(b) 
Without limitation to sub-paragraph (a) immediately above, the Recipient
shall ensure that the Project Steering Committee shall be responsible for
providing policy guidance to ensure prompt and efficient implementation
of the Project, including, inter alia: (i) reviewing progress made towards
achieving the Project's objective; and (ii) facilitating the coordination of
Project activities, and making recommendations for removal of any
obstacles to the implementation of the Project.
2. 
Project Coordination Unit.
(a) 
The Recipient shall operate and maintain, at all times during the
implementation of the Project, the Project Coordination Unit within the
Recipient's Ministry of Environment, Climate Resilience, Disaster
Management and Urban Renewal, with functions, staffing and resources
satisfactory to the Association.
(b) 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement and
Section I.A. 1 of this Schedule, the Recipient shall ensure that the PCU is
be responsible for the day-to-day administration of the overall Project
planning, evaluation, reporting, communication and coordination, the
technical and fiduciary (i.e., procurement and financial management in
coordination with its Ministry of Finance) aspects, and the environmental
and social safeguards compliance, all in accordance with the provisions of
this Agreement and the Project Operations Manual.
3. 
Ministry of Finance and Line Ministries and Agencies
(a) 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section I.A.1 and I.A.2 of this
Schedule, and for the purpose of ensuring the prompt and efficient
implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project
-8-
Coordination Unit shall, at all times during the implementation of the
Project, carry out the fiduciary management (i.e., procurement and
financial management) under the Project, with the technical support of its
Ministry of Finance, including the requirement that said Project
Coordination Unit, coordinate and provide to the Ministry of Finance
reports on the fiduciary aspects of the Project in a timely manner, in
accordance with the Project Operations Manual.
(b) 
Without limitation to provisions of Section I.A.1 and I.A.2 of this
Schedule, the Borrower shall ensure that its Ministry Public Works,
Dominica Water and Sewerage Authority, the Office of Disaster
Management, and other relevant ministries and agencies (Line Ministries
and Agencies), provide as may be required, 
technical support to the
Project Coordination Unit for relevant technical supervision and
implementation of respective Project activities in the area of expertise of
the relevant Line Ministry or Agency, in accordance with the Project
Operations Manual.
B. 
Project Operations Manual
1 .
The Recipient shall update the Project Operations Manual and thereafter carry out
Parts A, B and D of the Project in accordance with the provisions of the updated
Project Operations Manual, containing detailed arrangements and procedures for:
(a) institutional coordination and day-to-day execution of said Parts of the Project;
(b) Project budgeting, disbursement and financial management; (c) procurement;
(d) environmental and social safeguard guidelines; (e) monitoring, evaluation,
reporting and communication; and (f) such other administrative, financial,
technical and organizational arrangements and procedures as shall be required for
said Parts of the Project.
2. 
The Recipient shall not amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any provision of
the Project Operations Manual without the prior written agreement of the
Association: provided, however, that in case of any conflict between the
arrangements and procedures set out in the Project Operations Manual and the
provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
C. 
Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction Subprojects under Part C of the
Project
In order to ensure the proper implementation of Part C of the Project, the Recipient
shall take the measures set forth below:
-9-
The Recipient, shall:
(a) 
prepare and furnish to the Association for its review and approval, a CERC
Manual which shall set forth detailed implementation arrangements for
said Part of the Project, including: (i) designation of, terms of reference
for and resources to be allocated to, the entity to be responsible for
coordinating and implementing Part C of the Project ("Coordinating
Authority"); (ii) specific Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction
Subprojects, a sound and actionable country-level response plan, Eligible
Expenditures required therefore ("Emergency Expenditures") and any
procedures for such inclusion; (iii) eligibility criteria required for the
Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction Subprojects and other necessary
arrangements to ensure their effective and efficient implementation; (iv)
eligibility criteria and mechanisms for the provision of Cash Transfers and
Grants to Eligible Beneficiaries; (v) financial management arrangements
for Part C of the Project; (vi) procurement methods and procedures for
Eligible Emergency Expenditures to be financed under Part C of the
Project; (vii) documentation required for withdrawals of Eligible
Emergency Expenditures; (viii) environmental and social safeguard
management frameworks for Part C of the Project, consistent with the
Association's policies on the matter; and (ix) any other arrangements
necessary to ensure proper coordination and implementation of Part C of
the Project.
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to review said proposed
CERC Manual;
(c) 
promptly adopt such CERC Manual for Part C of the Project as shall have
been approved by the Association;
(d) 
ensure that Part C of the Project is carried out in accordance with the
CERC Manual; provided however, that in the event of any inconsistency
between the provisions of the CERC Manual and this Agreement, the
provisions of this Agreement shall prevail; and
(e) 
not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provision of the CERC
Manual without prior approval by the Association.
2. 
The Recipient shall, throughout the implementation of Part C of the Project,
maintain the Coordinating Authority, with adequate staff and resources
satisfactory to the Association.
3. 
The Recipient shall undertake no Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction
Subprojects under Part C of the Project (and no such Subprojects shall be included
- 10 
in Part C of the Project) unless and until the following conditions have been met
in respect of said activities:
(a) 
the Recipient has determined that an Eligible Emergency has occurred, has
furnished to the Association a request to include said Subprojects in Part
C of the Project in order to respond to said Eligible Emergency, and the
Association has agreed with such determination, accepted said request and
notified the Recipient thereof;
(b) 
the Recipient has prepared and disclosed all safeguards instruments
required for said activities, in accordance with the CERC Manual, the
Association has approved all such instruments, and the Recipient has
implemented any actions which are required to be taken under said
instruments; and
(c) 
the Recipient has ensured that no activities under Part C of the Project fall
under the excluded activities mentioned in the CERC Manual.
4. 
For purposes of carrying out an Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction
Subproject, the Recipient through the Coordinating Authority may provide Cash
Transfers or Grants to Eligible Beneficiaries pursuant the corresponding Grant
Agreement to be entered into between the Recipient and said Eligible Beneficiaries
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association as set forth in the CERC
Manual.
5. 
An investment or activity shall qualify as an Emergency Recovery and
Reconstruction Subproject only if:
(a) 
it is initiated in response to an Eligible Emergency;
(b) 
it aims, inter alia, to repair or reconstruct streets, roads, bridges,
transportation and other infrastructure damaged by the event of an Eligible
Emergency in question, re-establish telecommunications infrastructure,
re-establish urban or rural solid waste, water supply and sanitation
(including urban drainage) infrastructure damaged by the event of an
Eligible Emergency in question; repair, re-equip, construct or reconstruct
homes, schools, clinics, hospitals or works of cultural significance or other
communal structures damaged by the event of an Eligible Emergency in
question; remove and dispose debris resulting from the event of an Eligible
Emergency in question (but only if such removal and disposal is not an
end in itself but constitute an integral part of an infrastructure repair,
reconstruction or re-establishment activity itemized herein); restore the
productive assets damaged by the event of an Eligible Emergency in
question of uninsured low-income producers; replace vegetation destroyed
by the event of an Eligible Emergency in question, or repair or mitigate
- 11 
damage caused by the event of an Eligible Emergency to a national natural
protected area or buffer zone thereof (all the above in such a way as to take
into account the reasons for the damage suffered in the disaster and to
ensure that the infrastructure re-establishment through the Emergency
Recovery and Reconstruction Subproject is environmentally sound in a
way that reduces its vulnerability to possible social disasters);
(c) 
the Association has reviewed and approved the proposed Emergency
Recovery and Reconstruction Subproject prior to such Subproject's
initiation;
(d) 
in case of an Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction Subproject which
consists of carrying out an activity, the terms of reference for any
consultancy in respect of any such activity shall be satisfactory to the
Association following its review thereof and, to that end, the
implementation of such an activity and/or any such terms of reference,
shall duly comply with the requirements of the Association Safeguard
Policies then in force; and
(e) 
the requirements set forth in subparagraphs (a) to (c) of this paragraph
have been met with respect to the Emergency Recovery 
and
Reconstruction Subproject, and contracts for the execution thereof have
been awarded and signed (and on-site work under such contracts has
commenced) after forty-five (45) calendar days (but no more than one
hundred and eighty (180) calendar days), have passed since the occurrence
of an Eligible Emergency.
6. 
On an exceptional basis, the forty-five (45) calendar day limit set forth in
paragraph 3(e) of this Section, as well as the one hundred and eighty (180) calendar
day limit set forth in said paragraph, may, before the relevant limit expires, be
extended in writing by the Association for a particular commencement of any
Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction Subproject if the nature of the disaster
is such as to justify, in the Association's opinion, delays in the commencement of
such Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction Subproject on-site work (such as
when disaster conditions, for example non-receding flood waters, persist on-site
long after the occurrence of an Eligible Emergency).
D. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
- 12 
E. 
Environmental and Social Safeguards
1. 
The Recipient shall; (a) prior to carrying out any activities under Parts A, B and D
of the Project, update in form and substance acceptable to the Association and
disclose in-country and on the Association's InfoShop the EA, EMF, RPF and IPP;
and (b) immediately thereafter ensure that Parts A, B, and D of the Project are
carried out in accordance with the updated Environmental Management
Framework (EMF), the Environmental Assessment (EA), the Resettlement Policy
Framework (RPF), the Indigenous Peoples Plan (IPP) respectively, including the
guidelines, rules and procedures defined in said EMF, EA, RPF and IPP. To this
end, the Recipient shall, specifically take the following actions in a manner
acceptable to the Association:
(a) 
if an environmental management plan would be required on the basis of
the EMF: (i) such environmental management plan shall be prepared in
accordance with the requirements of the EMF, disclosed locally and
furnished to the Association for approval; and (ii) if applicable, the
pertinent Project activities shall be carried out in accordance with such
environmental management plan as approved by the Association; and
(b) 
if a resettlement action plan would be required on the basis of the
Resettlement Policy Framework: (i) said resettlement action plan shall be
prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Resettlement Policy
Framework, disclosed locally and furnished to the Association for
approval; and (ii) no works in respect of such Project activities shall
commence until: (A) all measures required to be taken under said
resettlement action plan have been taken in accordance with the terms of
said plan and in a manner acceptable to the Association; and (B) the
Recipient has furnished to the Association a report in form and substance
satisfactory to the Association, on the status of compliance with the
requirements of said resettlement action plan.
2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that all measures required for carrying out the EA, any
indigenous peoples plan, any environmental management plan, or any resettlement
action plan are taken in a timely manner, acceptable to the Association.
3. 
Without limitation of the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the Recipient
shall include in the Project Reports adequate information on the implementation
of the EMF, the EA, the RPF, the IPP, any environmental management plan, and
any resettlement action plan, giving details of:
(a) 
measures taken in furtherance of the EMF, the EA, the RPF, the IPP, any
environmental management plan, and any resettlement action plan;
-13-
(b) 
conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the smooth
implementation of the EMF, the EA, the RPF, the IPP, any environmental
management plan, and any resettlement action plan; and
(c) 
remedial measures taken or required to be taken to addiess such conditions
and to ensure the continued efficient and effective implementation of the
EMF, the EA, the RPF, the IPP, any environmental management plan, and
any resettlement action plan.
F. 
Specific Environmental Covenant for Part B of the Project
The Recipient shall ensure that the terms of reference for any consultancy in
respect of any Project activity under Part B of the Project shall be satisfactory to
the Association following its review thereof and, to that end, such terms of
reference shall duly incorporate the requirements of the Association's Safeguard
Policies then in force, as applied to the advice conveyed through such technical
assistance.
Section H. 
Project Monitorin2, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports; Completion Report
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators acceptable to the World Bank. Each
Project Report shall cover the period of six (6) calendar months, and shall be
furnished to the World Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the
period covered by each such report.
2. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions,
the Borrower shall: (a) on or about the date twenty four (24) months after the
Effective Date, submit to the World Bank a mid-term report, in such detail as the
World Bank shall reasonably request, documenting progress achieved in the
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of the mid-term
report, taking into account the monitoring and evaluation activities performed
pursuant to Section II.A.1 of this Schedule, and setting out the measures
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objective thereof during the period following such date; and
(b) review with the World Bank the mid-term report, on or about the date one
month after its submission, and thereafter take all measures required to ensure the
efficient implementation of the Project and the achievement of its objectives, based
on the conclusions and recommendations of the mid-term report and the World
Bank's views on the matter.
-14-
3. 
The Borrower shall prepare the Completion Report in accordance with the
provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions. The Completion Report
shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing
Date.
B. 
Financial Management; Financial Reports; Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that a financial management system is maintained in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
ensure that interim unaudited financial reports for the Project are prepared and
furnished to the World Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of
each calendar quarter, covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to
the World Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements for the Project audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of the Standard Conditions.
Each such audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal
year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall
be furnished to the World Bank not later than six months after the end of such
period.
Section HI. 
Procurement
All goods, works, non-consulting services and consulting services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured
in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in the Procurement
Regulations and the provisions of the Procurement Plan.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of: (a) Article III of the Standard Conditions; (b) this Section; and (c)
such additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the
Borrower (including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects"
dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the World Bank and as made
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocations of the
- 15 
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:
Amount of the 
Percentage of Expenditures
Loan Allocated 
to be Financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, Works, non- 
9,000,000 
19%
consulting services,
consulting services, Operating
Costs and Training under Part
A of the Project
(2) Goods, Works, non- 
0 
0%
consulting services,
consulting services, Operating
Costs and Training under Part
B of the Project
(3) Emergency Expenditures 
0 
0%
for Emergency Recovery and
Reconstruction Subprojects,
including Cash Transfers or
Grants, under Part C of the
Project.
(4) Goods, Works, non- 
0 
0%
consulting services,
consulting services, Operating
Costs and Training under Part
D of the Project
TOTAL AMOUNT 
9,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; or
(b) 
under Category (3), for Emergency Expenditures under Part C of the
Project, unless and until the Association is satisfied, and has notified the
Recipient of its satisfaction, that all of the following conditions have been
met in respect of said activities:
- 16 
(i) 
the Recipient has determined that an Eligible Emergency has
occurred, has furnished to the Association a request to include said
activities in Part C of the Project in order to respond to said Eligible
Emergency, and the Association has agreed with such determination,
accepted said request and notified the Recipient thereof,
(ii) 
the Recipient has prepared and disclosed all safeguards
instruments required for said activities, and the Recipient has implemented
any actions which are required to be taken under said instruments, all in
accordance with the provisions of Section C of this Schedule;
(iii) 
the Recipient's Coordinating Authority has adequate staff and
resources, in accordance with the provisions of Section C.1(a) of this
Schedule, for the purposes of said activities; and
(iv) 
the Recipient has adopted the CERC Manual in form, substance
and manner acceptable to the Association and the provisions of the CERC
Manual remain, or have been updated in accordance with the provisions
of Section C.1(a) of this Schedule so as to be appropriate for the inclusion
and 
implementation 
of any 
given 
Emergency 
Recovery 
and
Reconstruction Subproject.
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2023.
-17-
SCHEDULE3
Repayment Schedule
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Loan
repayable
(expressed as a percentage)
On each February l and August 1:
commencing August 1, 2024 to and including 
1%
February 1, 2034
commencing August 1, 2034 to and including 
2%
February 1, 2054
- 18 
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Additional Financing Agreement" means the agreement entered into the
Recipient and the Association as of the Signature Date.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as
of July 1, 2016.
3. 
"Amended and Restated Financing Agreement" means the financing agreement
for the Disaster Vulnerability Reduction Project between the Recipient and the
Association, dated June 10, 2014, as amended as of the Signature Date (Credit
Number 5495-DM).
4. 
"Amended and Restated Legal Agreements" means collectively the Amended and
Restated SCF Loan Agreement, the Amended and Restated PPCR Grant
Agreement and the Amended and Restated Financing Agreement.
5. 
"Amended and Restated PPCR Grant Agreement" means the grant agreement for
the Disaster Vulnerability Reduction Project between the Recipient and the World
Bank, dated June 10, 2014, as amended as of the Signature Date (SCF-PPCR Grant
Number TFO 16955).
6. 
"Association's Safeguard Policies" means the Association's operational policies
and procedures set forth in the Bank's Operational manual under OP/BPs 4.01,
4.04, 4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.36, and 4.37, as said manual is published under
www.WorldBank.orp/opmanual.
7. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
8. 
"Cash Transfers or Grants" means an amount made out of the proceeds of the
Financing to pay an Eligible Beneficiary to finance an Emergency Recovery and
Reconstruction Subproject in accordance with the provisions set forth in the
corresponding Grant Agreement and the CERC Manual.
9. 
"CERC Manual" means the means the manual to be adopted by the Coordinating
Authority referred to in Section I.C. 1(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
10. 
"Coordinating Authority" means the Recipient's entity or institution in charge of
implementing Part C of the Project.
- 19 
11. 
"Displaced Person" means a person who as a result of an involuntary taking of
land under Parts A, B or D of the Project, had or would have their: (i) standard of
living adversely affected; or (ii) access to, or right, title, interest in any house, land
(including premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable
asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) business,
occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected; and
"Displaced Persons" means, collectively, all such Displaced Persons.
12. 
"Dominica Water and Sewerage Company" means the authority established and
operating pursuant to Water and Sewage Act (Act No. 9 of 1994) of the laws of
the Recipient, or any successors thereto acceptable to the Association.
13. 
"Emergency Expenditures" means the eligible expenditures consisting of the
approved goods, works, consulting services, non-consulting services, Operating
Costs and Training under Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction Subprojects,
including Cash Transfers or Grants.
14. 
"Eligible Beneficiary" means low-income persons affected by an Eligible
Emergency eligible to receive a Cash Transfer or Grant that meet the criteria set
forth in the CERC Manual.
15. 
"Eligible Emergency" means the imminent or actual occurrence of a natural or
man-made crisis or disaster, which, in the opinion of the Association, has the
capacity to cause major adverse economic, health and/or social impacts in the
Recipient's population.
16. 
"Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction Subproject" means an investment or
activity for a productive purpose under Part C of the Project aimed at responding
to damage caused by an Eligible Emergency and meeting the criteria set forth
Section I.C.5 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and in the CERC Manual.
17. 
"Environmental Assessment" or "EA" means the Recipient's report for the Project
dated February 2014, and disclosed in-country on February 27, 2014, and
subsequently re-disclosed on March 25, 2014, and in the Association's InfoShop
on February 21, 2014, and subsequently re-disclosed on March 27, 2014,
describing the set of avoidance, mitigation, enhancement, monitoring, and
institutional measures to be taken under any activity for rehabilitation or
construction to avoid, mitigate, offset, or reduce adverse environmental and social
impacts to acceptable levels, or to enhance positive impacts, as such EA may be
amended with the agreement of the Association.
18. 
"Environmental Management Framework" or "EMF" means the Recipient's
framework, acceptable to the Association, dated February 2014, and disclosed in-
country on February 27, 2014, and subsequently re-disclosed on March 25, 2014,
and in the Association's InfoShop on February 21, 2014, and subsequently re-
-20 
disclosed on March 27, 2014, setting forth the modalities for environmental
screening and procedures/actions for the preparation and implementation of
environmental assessments and management plans under Parts A, B and D of the
Project, including a generic standardized EMP for minor works, and such term
includes all schedules and annexes to the Environmental Management Framework,
as such EMF may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the
Association.
19. 
"Financing Agreement" means the financing agreement referred in paragraph (A)
of the preamble to this Agreement, as such agreement may be amended from time
to time. "Financing Agreement" includes all appendices, schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Financing Agreement.
20. 
"Indigenous Peoples" means, a social group of people with a distinct social and
cultural identity that makes them vulnerable to being disadvantaged in the
development process, including the presence in varying degrees of the following
characteristics: (i) a close attachment to ancestral territories and to the natural
resources in these areas; (ii) self-identification and identification by others as
members of a distinct cultural group; (iii) an indigenous language, often different
from the national language; (iv) presence of customary social and political
institutions; and (v) primarily subsistence-oriented production.
21. 
"Indigenous Peoples Plan" or "IPP" means the Recipient's plan, acceptable to the
Association, dated February 2014 and disclosed in-country on February 25, 2014,
and subsequently re-disclosed on March 26, 2014, and in the Association's
InfoShop on February 25, 2014, and subsequently re-disclosed on March 27, 2014,
setting forth measures for addressing the needs of the Indigenous Peoples living in
the Carib Council within the territory of the Recipient, and providing guidelines
and procedures for consultation with, and informed participation of Indigenous
Peoples residing or cultivating lands in areas under the Project, as such IPP may
be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Association.
22. 
"Ministry of Environment, Climate Resilience, Disaster Management and Urban
Renewal" means the Recipient ministry in charge of environment, climate
resilience, disaster management and urban renewal, or any other successor thereto,
acceptable to the Association.
23. 
"Line Ministries and Agencies" mean the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works,
Energy and Ports, Dominica Water and Sewerage Authority, Office of Disaster
Management, and other relevant ministries and agencies that may participate in the
implementation of the Project.
24. 
"Office of Disaster Management" means the Borrower's office for disaster
management within the Ministry of National Security, Immigration and Labor.
-21-
25. 
"Operating Costs" means the incremental expenses incurred on account of Project
management, including office space rental for the PCU, office equipment and
supplies, vehicle operation and maintenance, communication and insurance costs,
office administration costs, utilities, travel and per diem, excluding the salaries of
the Recipient's civil service.
26. 
"Pilot Program for Climate Resilience (PPCR) Grant Agreement" means the grant
agreement referred to in paragraph (B) of the preamble to this Agreement, as such
grant agreement may be amended from time to time. "PPCR Grant Agreement"
includes all appendices, schedules and agreements supplemental to the PPCR
Grant Agreement.
27. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
May 31, 2018 and provided for under Section IV of the Procurement Regulations,
as the same shall be updated from time to time in agreement with the Association.
28. 
"Procurement Regulations" means the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for
Borrowers under Investment Project Financing", dated July 1, 2016.
29. 
"Project Coordination Unit" or "PCU" means the coordination unit within the
Borrower's Ministry of Health and Environment, and referred to in Section
I.A.2(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement or any successor thereto, acceptable to
the Association.
30. 
"Project Operations Manual" means the Recipient's manual dated April 2017
referred to in Section I.B.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as said manual may
be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Association.
31. 
"Project Steering Committee" means the committee referred to in Section I.A. 1(a)
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
32. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the Recipient's framework,
acceptable to the Association, dated February 2014, and disclosed in-country on
March 5, 2014, and subsequently re-disclosed on March 25, 2014, and in the
Association's InfoShop on February 26, 2014, and subsequently re-disclosed on
March 27, 2014, setting forth the modalities for resettlement and compensation of
Displaced Persons, including guidelines for the preparation of the resettlement
plans, all under Parts A, B and D of the Project, as the same may be amended from
time to time with the agreement of the Association.
33. 
"Signature Date" means the later of two dates on which the Recipient and the
Association signed the Additional Financing Agreement.
34. 
"Standard Conditions" means the Standard Conditions for Loans Made by the
World Bank Out of the Climate Investment Funds, dated February 18, 2014.
-22 
35. 
"Training" means the cost associated with the training and workshops approved
by the Association, for reasonable expenditures (other than expenditures for
consulting services), including: (i) travel, room, board and per diem expenditures
incurred by trainers and trainees in connection with their training; (ii) course fees;
(iii) training facility rentals; and (iv) training material preparation, acquisition,
reproduction and distribution expenses.
