OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8858-TN
Loan Agreement
(Irrigated Agriculture Intensification Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8858-TN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II- LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of one hundred thirteen million six
hundred thousand Euro (EUR 113,600,000) as such amount may be converted from time
to time through a Currency Conversion ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project
described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March15 and September 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project through its Ministry of Agriculture, Hydraulic
Resources and Fisheries (MARHP) in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-2-
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the Signature
Date.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Development, Investment and
International Cooperation.
5.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower's address is:
Ministry of Development, Investment and International Cooperation
98, Avenue Mohamed V
Place Pasteur
1002 Tunis
Republic of Tunisia
and
(b) the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile:
216 71 799 069
5.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-3-
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: Zfel> 
\
Title: Q1 
,LY 
4
Date: 
O 
1
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
thorized Representative
Name: 
Of 
E4E,
Title: r&A
Date: 
24 12
-4-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to improve the reliability and efficiency of the irrigation
and drainage services and strengthen market linkages for irrigated products in Selected Irrigation
Schemes.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. Institutional Modernization
1. 
Development of a new irrigation management institutional framework through the carrying
out of the following activities, including:
(a) 
the provision of advisory services for the establishment and operationalization of
the new water irrigation management entity (Operator), including: (i) the
preparation of the regulatory and corporate aspects, including an assessment of
required transfer of assets and redeployment of staff resources, if applicable;
(ii) the preparation of the contractual terms with the Operator for the operation and
maintenance functions, including a revised tariff structure and performance
standards applicable to the Operator; (iii) the carrying out of an in-depth irrigation
users information and engagement process regarding the proposed new irrigation
management institutional framework; (iv) the setting up of the customer
relationship function and other key functions within the Operator; and (v) the
carrying out of an evaluation of CRDAs and GDAs staff competencies, including
an assessment of their training needs;
(b) 
the financing of Operation and Maintenance Subsidies to the Operator on an
amount and for a period of time as set forth in the Project Operational Manual;
(c) 
the purchase of operational equipment and software relevant for the operation and
maintenance of the Selected Irrigation Schemes; and the rehabilitation of the
Operator's office building(s); and
(d) 
the provision of training to the Operator, GDAs and relevant Borrower's entities
with oversight functions over the provision of irrigation services (including
CRDAs).
2. 
Provision of support for the following activities, including: (a) the development of a
national information system for irrigation; (b) the piloting of in-field water management
systems in Selected Irrigation Schemes; (c) the development of an irrigation alert system
in Selected Irrigation Schemes; and (d) the establishment of an accountability mechanism
to monitor irrigation users' satisfaction.
-5-
Part 2. Rehabilitation and Improvement Works
1. 
(a) the rehabilitation and/or improvement of the following type of works in the Selected
Irrigation Schemes (including the preparation or the update, as the case may be, of pertinent
engineering studies and the carrying out of engineering supervision), including:
(i) renovation/expansion of existing pumping stations, and/or construction of new pumping
stations; (ii) renovation and/or construction of reservoirs; (iii) renovation of main pipeline
equipment through the replacement of obsolete or undersized sections and the
establishment of new main lines; (iv) renovation and reinforcement of distribution network;
(v) establishment of remote management systems in Selected Irrigation Schemes (as the
case may be); (vi) rehabilitation of feeder roads and service roads and ditches; and (vii) the
construction of drainage systems in some parts of the Selected Irrigation Schemes; and
(b) the preparation and implementation of the pertinent environmental and social
management plan(s)) for the works described under part 2.1(a) of the Project, as determined
by the ESMF.
2. 
(a) Strengthening the capacity of the CRDAs to perform their functions of engineering and
construction quality oversight (assistance Li maitrisse d'ouvrage) through the following
activities, including the provision of consulting services for, inter alia: (i) reviewing
technical designs and tender documents; (ii) preparing technical guides and standard
documents 
for 
the 
rehabilitation 
and 
modernization 
of irrigation 
structures;
(iii) establishing a reference list of unit prices and a database for estimating work costs;
(iv) contract management; and (v) carrying out technical audits, as needed; and (b)
purchasing meters and flow limiters.
Part 3. Support to Agricultural Development and Market Access
1 .
Strengthening the institutional capacity of producers and their access to market(s) through
the following activities, including:
(a) 
the design and implementation of an integrated and participatory agricultural
development plan in each of the Selected Irrigation Scheme, including:
(i) 
the provision of training and technical assistance to: (A) form and
consolidate farmer organization structures; and (B) improve their
marketing and business skills; all based on the recommendations of the
participatory agricultural development plans referred to in (a) above; and
(ii) 
the provision of support for the dissemination of research results on
relevant issues identified as part of the participatory agricultural
development plans to be prepared under Part 3.1 (a) and value chains
analysis to be carried 
out under Part 3.2(a) below, 
including,
demonstration 
of varietal 
improvement, 
certified 
seeds, 
water
management and soil fertility; and
(b) 
the preparation of an in-depth analysis of the concession holdings of the organized
sector comprised of socidtis de mise en valeur et de ddveloppement agricole, the
Borrower's Office des Terres Domaniales, technicians and young farmers leasing
public land.
-6-
2. 
Boosting product marketing and developing competitive value chains through the carrying
out of the following activities, including:
(a) 
the preparation of market studies and strategic analysis for selected value chains,
including the preparation of business investment plans eligible for financing under
Part 3.2(c) below;
(b) 
the implementation of actions to promote the quality of selected products,
including certification, labeling, geographical indications, and communication and
advertising campaigns; and
(c) 
the establishment of a Matching Grant Scheme (MGS) to assist Matching Grant
Beneficiaries in the implementation of the business investment plans prepared
under Part 3.2(a) above focused on selected value chains, including: (i) providing
support to the Borrower to, inter alia: (A) prepare the Matching Grant Manual;
(B) design a communication strategy for the MGS; and (ii) providing Matching
Grants to Matching Grant Beneficiaries to implement their business improvement
plans prepared under Part 3.2 (a) above.
Part 4. Project Management
Provision of support for, inter alia: (a) the operation of the Project Implementing Unit (UGO) in
the management, monitoring and evaluation of the Project (including handling of technical,
administrative, fiduciary, and safeguard-related aspects), through, inter alia: (i) the purchase of
relevant equipment; (ii) the carrying out of training activities; (iii) provision of consulting services;
and (iv) the financing of Incremental Operating Costs; and (b) the carrying out of relevant impact
assessment studies.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements.
1. 
The Borrower shall vest the overall responsibility for the implementation of the Project in
MARHP, and to this end, shall, through MARHP:
At the national level:
(a) 
no later than four (4) months after the Effective Date, or such later date as agreed
by 
the 
Bank, 
establish, 
and 
thereafter 
maintain, 
throughout 
Project
implementation, the UGO with composition, terms of reference and resources
acceptable to the Bank and defined in the Project Operational Manual, to be
responsible for day-to-day implementation, management and coordination of the
Project, monitoring and evaluation of its activities, including: (i) carrying out of
procurement procedures at the national level; (ii) financial management;
(iii) management of the monitoring and evaluation system at the national level,
including safeguards aspects; (iv) preparation of consolidated annual work
programs and budgets; (v) coordination and consolidation of procurement and
financial management reporting; and (vi) coordination and consolidation of
periodic Project progress reports;
(b) 
no later than three (3) months after the Effective Date, or such later date as agreed
by the Bank, establish, and thereafter maintain throughout Project implementation,
the COPIL with composition acceptable to the Bank and defined in the Project
Operational Manual, to provide strategic guidance and oversight of the Project,
facilitate overall effective implementation of the Project and ensure its consistency
with the Borrower's sectoral policies and other programs;
At the subnational level:
(c) 
ensure the participation of the CRDAs (including their CRES) in the
implementation of the activities under Part 2.1 of the Project (including, as the case
may be, the operation and maintenance of the infrastructure investments under Part
2.1(a) of the Project), at the Governorate-level, including ensuring compliance
with financial management, procurement and safeguards provisions set forth in
this Schedule and in the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter; and
(d) 
as the case may be, cause the GDAs to carry out their responsibilities in the
operation and maintenance of the infrastructure investments to be carried out under
Part 2.1(a) of the Project, pursuant to adequate arrangements between the relevant
CRDA and the GDA operating in a Selected Irrigation Scheme, under adequate
terms and conditions set forth in the Project Operational Manual.
2. 
When applicable, upon achievement of the withdrawal condition set forth in Section
Ill.B.1(b)(i)(A) of this Schedule, for purposes of the operation and maintenance of the
-8-
infrastructure investments to be carried out under Part 2.1(a) of the Project in any given
Selected Irrigation Scheme, the Borrower, through MARHP, shall enter into adequate
arrangements with the Operator (Contrat Programme or Program Agreement) under terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank which shall include:
(a) 
the Borrower's obligation to make available a portion of the Loan proceeds, on a
grant basis (Operation and Maintenance Subsidy), to the Operator for the carrying
out of the operation and maintenance of the infrastructure investments under Part
2.1(a) of the Project; and
(b) 
the Operator's obligation to: (i) operate and maintain said infrastructure
investment(s) in compliance with the safeguards provisions set forth in this
Schedule and, more generally, in accordance with Article V of the General
Conditions; and (ii) enter into a contrat d'abonnement with any given irrigation
user (Service Contract) under terms and conditions set forth in the Project
Operational Manual.
3. 
The Borrower, through MARHP, shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under
the Program Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Program Agreement or any of
its provisions.
B. 
Project Operational Manual
The Borrower, through MARHP, shall: (i) carry out the Project in accordance with a manual,
acceptable to the Bank (Project Operational Manual or POM); and (ii) not amend, abrogate or waive
the POM or any of its provisions without the Bank's prior written consent. In case of conflict
between the provisions of the POM and the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this
Agreement shall prevail.
C. 
Matching Grant Scheme
1. 
For purposes of the implementation of Part 3.2 (c)(ii) of the Project, the Borrower, through
MARHP, shall enter into an agreement with the Agence de Promotion des Investissement
Agricoles (APIA) (APIA Agreement), under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank
which shall include, inter alia, APIA's obligation to:
(a) 
(i) prior to the implementation of any activity under Part 3.2(c)(ii), prepare and
adopt the Matching Grant Manual in a manner acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) immediately thereafter, carry out Part 3.2(c)(ii) of the Project in accordance
with the requirements set forth in the Matching Grant Manual, including eligibility
criteria, selection procedures and implementation condition; and (iii) not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive any provision of the Matching Grant Manual without
prior written approval of the Bank. In case of any conflict between the terms of the
Matching Grant Manual and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement
shall prevail.
-9-
(b) 
prior to the implementation of any activity under Part 3.2(c)(ii), establish a
matching grant selection committee (Matching Grant Selection Committee) with
composition acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the Matching Grant Manual;
and
(c) 
upon selection of an investment pursuant to the criteria and procedures established
in the Matching Grant Manual, enter into a standard agreement with the Matching
Grant Beneficiary, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, (the
Matching Grant Agreement), including, inter alia:
(i) 
the amount to be provided in the form of a Matching Grant to the Matching
Grant Beneficiary under a Matching Grant Agreement, its terms and
conditions and a disbursement schedule;
(ii) 
an amount of co-financing provided by the Matching Grant Beneficiary
and/or evaluation of in-kind contribution to the activity co-financed by the
Matching Grant Scheme, as defined in the Matching Grant Manual;
(iii) 
the obligation of the Matching Grant Beneficiary to procure the
expenditures to be financed under the Matching Grant Agreement in
accordance with the procedures set forth in the Matching Grant Manual;
(iv) 
the obligation of the Matching Grant Beneficiary to carry out its activities
in compliance with the Anti-Corruption Guidelines, the PMP and, when
applicable, prepare environmental management plans in accordance with
the ESMF, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, and to
implement said activities in accordance with the relevant environmental
management plan;
(v) 
the obligation of the Matching Grant Beneficiary to report to APIA on the
progress of the implementation of the activity co-financed with the
Matching Grant and to enable the APIA, the Borrower and the Bank, if the
Bank shall so request, to visit the facilities where the co-financed activities
are implemented and administered;
(vi) 
the obligation of the Matching Grant Beneficiary to maintain records and
accounts for expenditures incurred and financed with the Matching Grant,
and make available such documentation to APIA, the Borrower and the
Bank, if the Bank shall so request; and
(vii) 
the right of APIA to suspend, cancel or request a refund of the Matching
Grant or a portion thereof in case of the failure of the Matching Grant
Beneficiary to perform any of its obligations under the Matching Grant
Agreement.
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the APIA
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
- 10-
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the APIA Agreement or any of its
provisions.
D. 
Value Chain Development under Part 3 of the Project
1. 
When applicable, for purposes of implementing the activities under Parts 3.1 and 3.2(a)
and (b) of the Project, the Borrower, through MARPH, shall enter into or maintain, as the
case may be, adequate arrangements with CEPEX (Convention) under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the Project Operational Manual.
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the Convention in
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Convention or any of its provisions.
E. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower, through MARHP, shall ensure that the Project is implemented in
accordance with the Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF), the Pest
Management Plan (PMP) and the Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF). Except as
otherwise agreed by the Bank, the Borrower shall not amend, abrogate, waive, or fail to
enforce the ESMF, PMP or the RPF, or any of their provisions.
2. 
The Borrower, through MARHP, shall ensure that the terms of reference for any technical
assistance provided under the Project, shall be satisfactory to the Bank, and to that end,
such terms of reference shall require that the advice conveyed through such technical
assistance be consistent with the requirements of the Bank's Safeguards Policies and
Procedures.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
The Borrower, through MARHP, shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later
than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar
semester.
Section III. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in
accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible Expenditures; and (b) pay the
Front-end Fee; in the amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth
against each Category of the following table:
- 11 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in EUR) 
(exclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, 
works, 
non- 
102,316,000 
100%
consulting 
services,
consulting services 
and
Incremental 
Operating
Costs under Part 1 (but
excluding Part 1(b)), Part
2, Part 3.1, Part 3.2 (but
excluding Part 3.2(c)(ii))
and Part 4 of the Project
(2) Operation 
and 
4,500,000 
100%
Maintenance 
Subsidies
under Part 
1 
(b) of the
Project
(3) Matching 
Grants under 
6,500,000 
100%
Part 
3.2(c)(ii) 
of the
Project
(4) Front-end Fee 
284,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 
2.03 
of 
this
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
113,600,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the Signature Date;
(b) 
under Category (2), until evidence satisfactory to the Bank has been furnished to
the Bank that the following conditions have been met:
(i) 
(A) the Operator has been legally established and is operating in a manner
acceptable to the Bank; and (B) the Borrower, through MARHP, has
entered into a Program Agreement with the Operator under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank; and
(ii) 
for any given Selected Irrigation Scheme where the operation and
maintenance will be transferred to the newly established Operator, a debt
resorption plan has been approved by the Borrower in consultation with
any given GDA operating in a Selected Irrigation Scheme all under terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the Project
Operational Manual; or
- 12 
(c) 
under Category (3), until evidence satisfactory to the Bank has been furnished to
the Bank that the following conditions have been met:
(i) 
the Matching Grant Manual has been adopted in a manner acceptable to
the Bank; and
(ii) 
the Matching Grant Selection Committee has been established with
composition acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the Matching Grant
Manual.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2024.
- 13 
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan as follows:
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
March 15, 2025 
1.00%
September 15, 2025 
1.00%
March 15, 2026 
1.00%
September 15, 2026 
1.00%
March 15, 2027 
1.00%
September 15, 2027 
1.00%
March 15, 2028 
1.00%
September 15, 2028 
1.00%
March 15, 2029 
5.00%
September 15, 2029 
5.00%
March 15, 2030 
2.00%
September 15, 2030 
2.00%
March 15, 2031 
2.00%
September 15,2031 
2.00%
March 15, 2032 
7.00%
September 15, 2032 
7.00%
March 15, 2033 
2.00%
September 15,2033 
2.00%
March 15, 2034 
5.00%
September 15, 2034 
5.00%
March 15, 2035 
2.00%
September 15, 2035 
2.00%
March 15, 2036 
2.00%
September 15, 2036 
2.00%
March 15, 2037 
2.00%
September 15, 2037 
2.00%
March 15, 2038 
2.00%
September 15, 2038 
2.00%
March 15, 2039 
2.00%
September 15, 2039 
2.00%
March 15, 2040 
2.00%
September 15, 2040 
2.00%
March 15, 2041 
2.00%
September 15, 2041 
2.00%
March 15, 2042 
2.00%
September 15, 2042 
2.00%
March 15, 2043 
2.00%
September 15, 2043 
2.00%
- 14 
March 15, 2044 
2.00%
September 15, 2044 
2.00%
March 15, 2045 
2.00%
September 15, 2045 
2.00%
March 15, 2046 
2.00%
- 15 
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Agence de Promotion des Investissement Agricoles" or "APIA" means the Borrower's
Agence de Promotion des Investissement Agricoles established pursuant to Borrower's
Law No. 82-67, dated August 6, 1982, or any successor thereto.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption
in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006
and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
3. 
"APIA Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.C.1 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IlI.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
5. 
"CEPEX" means the Borrower's Center for Export Promotion (Centre de Promotion des
Exportations), an industrial and commercial public enterprise with industrial and
commercial character established and operating according to the rules and regulations of
the Borrower including under the law establishing the CEPEX and Decree No. 2005-3282
of December 19, 2005, fixing the organization of CEPEX, and such term includes any
successor thereto satisfactory to the Bank.
6. 
"Contrat Programme" or "Program Agreement" means the agreement between the
Borrower and the Operator referred to in Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
7. 
"Convention" means the agreement referred to in Section I.D.1 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
8. 
"COPIL" means Comiti de Pilotage, the Steering Committee located within MARHP and
referred to in Section l.A. 1(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
9. 
"CRDA" means Commisariat Rigional pour le Devdloppement Agricole, each of the
MARHP's regional command center for agricultural development established in each
Governorates.
10. 
"CRES" means Cellule Rigionale d'Execution et de Suivi, a regional implementation and
monitoring team established within each CRDA.
11. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the Borrower's
Environmental and Social Management Framework, acceptable to the Bank, published on
the Borrower's and the Bank's external websites on March 15, 2018, which contains, inter
alia, the environmental and social protection measures in respect of the Project, including:
(a) measures for chance findings of physical cultural property; (b) protection of natural
habitats and pest management; (c) guidelines for the identification of existing environmental
conditions and potential direct and indirect environmental impacts resulting from the
carrying out of the Project; (d) guidelines for the carrying out of environmental assessments
- 16 
and the preparation of environmental management plans, when applicable; (e) the
recommendation of mitigation measures for each negative impact identified; (f) measures
for enhancing each identified positive impacts; and (g) generic safety dam measures; as
may be amended from time to time with the Bank's prior written consent.
12. 
"GDA" means Groupe de development Agricole, an Agricultural Development Group
established pursuant to Borrower's Law No. 2004-24. Dated March 15, 2004, or any
successor thereto.
13. 
"Governorate" means an administrative subdivision of the Borrower.
14. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing", dated
July 14, 2017.
15. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the reasonable costs incurred in the account of
Project implementation, including: travel expenditures; equipment rental and maintenance;
vehicle operation, maintenance and repair; office rental and maintenance, materials and
supplies; and utilities, media information campaigns and communications' expenses
(including limited incremental operating costs incurred by APIA for the implementation of
the activities under Part 3.2 of the Project and by CEPEX through its Task Force pour le
Developpement des Chaines de Valeur for the implementation of activities under Parts 3.1
and 3.2(a) and (b) of the Project); but excluding the salaries of the Borrower's public
servants, as further described in the POM.
16. 
"Involuntary Resettlement" means the impact of: (a) an involuntary taking of land under
the Project, which taking causes affected persons to have their: (i) standard of living
adversely affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises,
agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed,
temporarily or permanently; or (iii) access to productive assets adversely affected,
temporarily or permanently; or (iv) business, occupation, work or place of residence or
habitat adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (b) an involuntary restriction of
access to legally designated parks and protected areas (including reserves) which causes
an adverse impact on the livelihoods of the affected persons.
17. 
"Matching Grant" means a grant to be provided by the Borrower out of the Matching Grant
Scheme to each Matching Grant Beneficiary from the proceeds of the Loan for the purposes
of carrying out activities established in the business improvement plan prepared under Part
3.2(a) of the Project.
18. 
"Matching Grant Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between APIA and
each Matching Grant Beneficiary for the provision of a Matching Grant, and referred to in
Section I.C.1(c) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
19. 
"Matching Grant Beneficiary" means any producer/producer organization and/or investor
in a value chain in the Borrower's territory selected in accordance with the criteria and
procedures established in the Matching Grant Manual, which will benefit from the
provision of Matching Grants under Part 3.2(c)(ii) of the Project.
- 17 
20. 
"Matching Grant Manual" means the manual setting forth the eligibility criteria, selection
process of Matching Grant Beneficiaries and activities to be financed under Part 3.2(c)(ii)
of the Project (including a negative list of activities).
21. 
"Matching Grant Scheme" or "MGS" means the mechanism to provide Matching Grants
to Matching Grants Beneficiaries for the purposes of co-financing the activities included
in their business investment plans, to be established under Part 3.2 (c) of the Project, under
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
22. 
"Matching 
Grant 
Selection 
Committee" 
means 
the 
committee 
referred 
to 
in
Section I.C.1(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
23. 
"Ministry of Agriculture, Hydraulic Resources and Fisheries" or "MARHP" means the
Borrower's Ministire de I'Agriculture, des Ressources Hydrauliques et de la Peche, or any
successor thereto.
24. 
"Operator" means any entity vested with legal personality which meets the criteria set forth
in the Project Operational Manual and established to carry out the operation and
maintenance of the infrastructure investments under Part 2.1 (a) of the Project.
25. 
"Operation and Maintenance Subsidy" means a grant made out of the proceeds of the Loan,
in an amount calculated in accordance with a formula set forth in the Project Operational
Manual, to assist the Operator, as applicable, in the carrying out of the operation and
maintenance of the infrastructure activities under Part 2.1(a) of the Project under terms and
conditions described in the Program Agreement.
26. 
"Pest Management Plan" or "PMP" means the Borrower's Pest Management Plan
acceptable to the Bank, published in the Borrower's and the Bank's external websites on
March 15, 2018 describing, inter alia: (i) the reasonable use of pesticides (ii) the good agri-
environmental practices; and (iii) the management of risks associated with the use of
pesticides; as said plan may be amended from time to time with the Bank's prior written
consent.
27. 
"Procurement Regulations" means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF Borrowers", dated
July 2016, revised November 2017.
28. 
"Project Implementing Unit" or "UGO" means Unitd de Gestion par Objectif, established
within MARHP and referred to in Section I.A. I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
29. 
"Project Operational Manual" or "POM" means the manual referred to in Section I.B of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, to be adopted by the Borrower, at all times in form and
substance acceptable to the Bank, setting forth the details of all operational arrangements
for the implementation, monitoring and supervision of the Project, including: (a) the
respective roles and responsibilities for the implementation of the Project; (b) the
accounting, financial management, 
auditing and reporting arrangements; 
(c) the
procurement arrangements, including the Procurement Plan; (d) the monitoring and
evaluation procedures including the selected indicators for measuring Project performance;
- 18 
(e) the procedures and eligibility criteria governing the provision of Matching Grants;
(f) the formula for the calculation of the Operation and Maintenance Subsidies; (g) the
ESMF, RPF and PMP; (h) the model forms of the Service Contract and the Program
Agreement; and (i) all other relevant arrangements necessary for the carrying out of the
Project.
30. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the Borrower's Resettlement Policy
Framework, acceptable to the Bank, published on the Borrower's and the Bank's external
websites on March 15, 2018, outlining general implementation procedures, mitigation
measures and monitoring procedures for Involuntary Resettlement under the Project,
including the procedures for preparation and implementation of resettlement plans, when
applicable, as said framework may be amended from time to time with the Bank's prior
written consent.
31. 
"Selected Irrigation Schemes" means any of the irrigation schemes located in any of the
following Borrower's Governorates: Beja, Bizerte, Jendouba, Nabeul, Sfax and Siliana, or
in any other Governorate as agreed between the Bank and the Borrower; all selected
pursuant to the criteria and procedures established in the POM.
32. 
"Service Contract" means each of the contrat d'abonnement to be entered into between the
Operator and any given irrigation user and referred to in Section 1. A.2(b)(ii) of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
33. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the date of the Loan
Agreement" in the General Conditions.
