OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8882-CN
Loan Agreement
(Anhui Aged Care System Demonstration Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
OF CHINA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of one hundred eighteen
million Dollars ($118,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to
time through a Currency Conversion ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may
apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 1 and November 1 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
2.08 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure
Limit (as said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of
this Section), the Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of
one half of one percent (0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess
Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for
-2-
each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if any)
shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set
forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during
which the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit,
the product of: (A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the
ratio of all (or, if the Bank so determines, a portion) of the Loan
to the aggregate amount of all (or the equivalent portions) of the
loans made by the Bank to the Borrower and to other borrowers
guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an exposure
surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined from
time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the
Bank's financial exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded,
would subject the Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined
from time to time by the Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total
financial exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by
the Bank.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project Implementing
Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions,
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
-3-
5.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) the Borrower's address is:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Xicheng District
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
(b) the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile:
(86-10) 6855-2077.
5.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By 
___
Authorized Representative
Name:
Title.
Date:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
1 
7
Title:
Date: 
,, 
/ 
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to support the government of Anhui in developing
and managing a diversified, three-tiered aged care service delivery system for the elderly,
particularly those with limited functional ability.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A. 
Supporting the Development of Government Stewardship Capacity
1. 
Development of a unified information system aimed at facilitating the management
of the aged-care service system in Anhui.
2. 
Design and piloting of a functional ability and needs assessment protocol, aimed
at improving the effectiveness and quality of aged-care services.
3. 
Development and implementation of quality and service provision standards for
aged-care services in Anhui including, inter alia, residential, community-based
and home-based aged care services.
4. 
Provision of professional managerial training to government officials and facility
managers of aged-care services in Anhui.
Part B. 
Strengthening Community-based and Home-based Care Services
1. 
Construction, upgrading, refurbishing and/or equipping of community-based
stations in Anqing and Lu'An.
2. 
Supporting the provision of aged-care services to targeted beneficiaries in Anqing
and Lu'An through, inter alia: (a) the purchase of basic aged-care services; (b) the
provision of technical assistance; and (c) the carrying out of monitoring and
evaluation activities.
Part C. 
Strengthening the Delivery and Management of Nursing Care
1. 
Construction and equipping of skilled nursing facilities, providing skilled nursing
beds and services in Lu'An and Anqing.
2. 
Upgrading of the infrastructure, equipment, and institutional management capacity
of government-run urban welfare homes in Ningguo City and Xuanzhou, including
the provision of outreach services to regional resource centers and platforms.
3. 
(a) Upgrading of the infrastructure, equipment, and institutional management
capacity of government-run rural welfare homes in Suzhou; and (b) provision of
-6-
technical assistance to develop guidelines for the provision of aged-care services
with the involvement of the private sector in Suzhou; develop transparent and
competitive selection criteria and processes for the selection of private sector
partners, as service provider to Suzhou, member of a joint venture with Suzhou for
the provision of such aged-care services, or concessionaire under a public-private
partnership.
Part D. 
Project Management, Monitoring, and Evaluation
1 .
Provision of technical assistance, training and support for Project management
including, inter alia: (a) capacity building activities for managers and operational
staff at both the PMOs and the PIUs; (b) technical guidance, through a Project
expert panel, to support Project implementation; and (c) monitoring and evaluation
of Project activities, including innovative case studies and other surveys, and
dissemination of Project experience and lessons learned from key interventions
and results.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Financing Arrangements
1. 
For the purposes of carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make available
the proceeds of the Loan to the Project Implementing Entity, under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank, including the following principal terms:
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars or any other
Currency as the Loan may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion of the value of the currency or currencies so
withdrawn (such principal amount determined on the date, or respective
dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account).
(b) 
The principal amount so made available (including an amount equal to the
fee paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement) shall be recovered
over a period of twenty-five (25) years, inclusive of a grace period of five
(5) years.
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of
Section 2.05 of this Agreement.
(d) 
A Commitment Charge shall be charged equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to: (a) manage, operate,
monitor, transfer and reconcile the proceeds of the Loan made available to it
pursuant to paragraph 1 above in accordance with arrangements and procedures
acceptable to the Bank; (b) take all required actions, including provision of timely
consents and approvals as may be necessary, to facilitate the utilization of said
Loan proceeds and the implementation of the Project and enable the Project
Implementing Entity to comply with its undertakings under the Project Agreement;
and (c) maintain all relevant records and documents related to the Loan and the
Project and provide promptly such documents and records, including all other
Project-related information, as may be requested by the Borrower or the Bank from
time to time.
-8-
B. 
Safeguards
The Borrower shall take, and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to take,
all measures necessary to comply with, or all measures necessary to enable the
Project Implementing Entity to comply with, the provisions of Section I.B of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section H. 
Project Monitorin2, Reportin2 and Evaluation
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to furnish to the Bank
each Project Report not later than sixty (60) days after the end of each calendar
semester, covering the calendar semester.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive
-9-
Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set forth in the box below; (b) Direct
Contracting; (c) Shopping; and (d) other methods as agreed by the Bank.
The procedures applicable to the procurement of goods, works, and non-consulting
services under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding ("NCB")
shall be the open tendering procedures set forth in the Borrower's Law on Tendering
and Bidding promulgated by its Order No. 21 dated August 30, 1999; provided,
however, that such procedures shall be subject to the provisions of Section I,
Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of Section III, and Appendix 1 of the Procurement Guidelines,
and the additional provisions in the following. In the event of a conflict between the
Borrower's procedures and these NCB Procedure Modifications, the latter shall govern.
(i) 
Eligibility to participate in a procurement process and to be awarded a Bank-
financed contract shall be as defined under Section I of the Procurement
Guidelines; accordingly, no bidder or potential bidder shall be declared
ineligible for such contract for reasons other than those provided in Section I of
the Procurement Guidelines. No restriction based on nationality of bidders
and/or origin of goods shall apply, and foreign bidders shall be allowed to
participate in NCB without application of restrictive conditions.
(ii) 
All invitations to prequalify or bid shall be advertised in a national newspaper
of wide circulation in the Borrower's country, or on a widely used website 
electronic portal with free national and international access acceptable to the
Bank except for goods or non-consulting services contracts that are estimated to
cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, or works contracts that are estimated to
cost less than $2,000,000 each, which may be advertised in a provincial daily
newspaper. Such advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for prospective
bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding documents and prepare and submit
their responses. In any event, a minimum of thirty (30) days shall be given to
bidders between the date of such advertisement (or the date of availability of
bidding documents, whichever is later) and the deadline for the submission of
bids, and the advertisement and bidding documents shall specify the deadline
for the submission of bids. In the case of such advertisement on a website 
electronic portal, the notice shall remain readily accessible nationally and
internationally until at least the deadline for the submission of bids. Potential
bidders shall be allowed to inspect and purchase bidding documents at any time
prior to the deadline for the submission of bids.
(iii) 
Standard Bidding Documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
(iv) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of evaluating the
qualification of each bidder shall be specified in detail in the bidding documents.
-10-
(v) 
Prequalification procedures and documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used
for large, complex and/or specialized works. Verification of the information
upon which a bidder was prequalified, including current commitments, shall be
carried out at the time of contract award, along with the bidder's capability with
respect to personnel and equipment. All bidders that meet the qualification
criteria set out in the pre-qualification documents shall be allowed to bid, and
there shall be no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. Where pre-
qualification is not used, the qualification of the bidder who is recommended for
award of contract shall be assessed by post-qualification, applying the
qualification criteria stated in the bidding documents.
(vi) 
Registration shall not be used to assess bidders' qualifications. A bidder shall
not be required to register as a condition for inspecting or purchasing bidding
documents, submitting its bid or receiving contract award. A bidder determined
to be the lowest evaluated responsive bidder, shall be given reasonable
opportunity of registering (if required) before contract signing without any let
or hindrance. Bidding shall not be restricted to any particular class of
contractors, and non-classified contractors shall also be eligible to bid.
(vii) 
No margins of preference of any sort shall be given to bidders, such as on the
basis of their location, place of incorporation, or affinity with the geographical
area in which the Project activities will take place.
(viii) 
All bidders who are awarded contracts for works and single-responsibility
contracts shall be required to provide performance security in an amount
sufficient to protect the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity / Entities,
as the case may be, in case of breach of contract by the contractor, and the
bidding documents shall specify the required form and amount of such security
and any other potential damages for such breach.
(ix) 
Bidders shall be allowed to submit bids by mail or in person.
(x) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an opportunity to
be present (either in person or through their representatives) at the time of bid
opening, but bidders shall not be required to be present at the bid opening.
(xi) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding documents and
quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the form of pass/fail requirements.
(xii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price exceeds any cost
estimate or falls outside any margin or bracket of prices or average bids
established by the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity / Entities, as the
case may be. Rejection of all bids or re-bidding shall not be allowed solely
because the number of bids is less than three (3), and rejection of all bids or
rebidding shall not take place without the Bank's prior written agreement.
-11-
(xiii) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder, that
is, the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of capability and resources
and whose bid has been determined: (A) to be substantially responsive to the
bidding documents; and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The winning
bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award, to undertake
responsibilities for work or to assume other obligations not stipulated in the
bidding documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally submitted. No
negotiations shall be permitted except with the Bank's no-objection.
(xiv) 
In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding document and
contract shall include provisions stating the Bank's policy to sanction firms or
individuals found to have engaged in fraud and corruption as set forth in the
Procurement Guidelines.
(xv) 
In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding document and
contract shall include provisions stating the Bank's policy with respect to
inspection and audit of accounts, records and other documents relating to the
submission of bids and contract performance.
(xvi) 
State-owned enterprises in the Borrower's country may be permitted to bid or
submit a proposal of goods, works, or non-consulting services if they can
establish that they: (A) are legally and financially autonomous; (B) operate
under commercial law; and (C) are not a dependent agency of the agency
conducting the procurement.
(xvii) 
Matters such as subcontracting, joint venture relationships and assignment of
contract shall be handled in accordance with the bidding documents.
(xviii) The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be published in the
national or provincial press (as provided under paragraph (ii) above) or official
gazette or a free and open-access website and shall identify: (A) the name of
each bidder who submitted a bid; (B) bid prices as read out at bid opening; (C)
the name of the bidder, and the evaluated price, of each bid that was evaluated;
(D) the names of bidders whose bids were either rejected as non-responsive or
not meeting qualification criteria, or not evaluated, with the reasons therefor;
and (E) the name of the winning bidder and the final total contract price, as well
as the duration and summary scope of the contract. Such publication shall be
within two (2) weeks of receiving the Bank's no-objection to the award
recommendation for contracts subject to the Bank's prior review, and within
two (2) weeks of the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity /Entities'
award decision for contracts subject to the Bank's post review. The bidding
documents shall disclose the newspaper in which and / or the electronic means
by which the information on contract award will be published.
-12-
(xix) 
The Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity / Entities, as the case may be,
shall have in place an effective and independent protest mechanism for bidders
to protest. The bidding documents shall provide the professional title and
address of the official to whom such protests should be sent.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; 
(b) Selection based on
Consultants' Qualifications; (c) Selection under a Fixed Budget; (d) Least Cost
Selection; (e) Single-Source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Procedures set forth
in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of
Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and
in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the
Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible
Expenditures; and (b) pay: (i) the Front-end Fee; (ii) each Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar premium; and (c) interest, Commitment Charge, and other
charges under the Loan; in the amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the
percentage set forth against each Category of the following table:
-13-
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) 
Works, 
goods,
consulting services, non- 
91,919,000 
100%
consulting 
services,
Incremental 
Operating
Costs, and Training and
Workshops 
under 
the
Project (except for Part
B.2(a) thereof)
(2) 
Payment 
for 
the
purchase of basic aged-care 
20,910,000 
100%
services under Part B.2(a)
of the Project
(3) Interest, Commitment 
Amount payable pursuant to
Charge, and other charges 
Sections 2.04 and 2.05 of this
on the Loan accrued on or 
4,876,000 
Agreement, respectively, in
before the last Payment 
accordance 
with
Date 
immediately 
Section 2.07 (c) 
of 
the
preceding the Closing Date 
General Conditions
(4) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount 
due 
pursuant 
to
Interest Rate Collar 
Section 4.05 (c) of the General
premium 
Conditions
(5) Front-end Fee 
295,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 
2.03 
of 
this
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
118,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made,
except for:
(a) 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $23,600,000 may be
made for payments made prior to this date but on or after May 15, 2018,
for Eligible Expenditures; and
(b) 
for payments under Category (2), unless:
-14-
(i) 
the Project Implementing Entity, having taken into the account the
views of the Bank, has finalized and adopted the Guidelines for
the Purchase of Basic Aged-Care Services;
(ii) 
the Unit Cost estimated for each basket of services to be provided
under Part B.2(a) of the Project, or an appropriate mechanism and
method to procure a specific service thereunder, as reflected in the
Guidelines for the Purchase of Basic Aged-Care Services, has
been agreed by the Bank and the Borrower;
(iii) 
the Outputs have been achieved, or the specific services have been
rendered, as the case may be, in compliance with the provisions
of the Guidelines for the Purchase of Basic Aged-Care Services,
including the quality, technical standards and specifications set
out therein; and
(iv) 
(A) 
the relevant PMO has carried out an inspection of the
related Outputs or specific services, as the case may be,
financed under said Category after their completion,
following the verification protocol set forth to that effect
in the Guidelines for the Purchase of Basic Aged-Care
Services; and
(B) 
the relevant PMO has certified, in form and substance
acceptable to the Bank, and on the basis of the verification
protocol included in the Guidelines for the Purchase of
Basic Aged-Care Services, the following:
(aa) 
the number of Outputs delivered, or specific
services rendered;
(bb) 
that, in the case of Outputs, these have been
achieved, or the specific services rendered, in
compliance with the provisions of the Service
Agreements 
entered 
into pursuant 
to the
provision of Section I.C.1 of the Schedule to the
Project 
Agreement, 
including 
the 
quality,
technical standards and specifications therein;
(cc) 
that, in the case of Outputs, the amounts to be so
withdrawn with respect to expenditures under
said Category (2) is equal to the amount resulting
from multiplying the certified Outputs times the
Unit Cost; and
-15-
(dd) 
that, in the case of Outputs, these have not been
claimed by the Borrower to support a previous
withdrawal application from the Loan Account.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2023.
-16-
SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share").
Level Principal Repayments
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
On each May 1 and November 1
Beginning November 1, 2023 
2.50%
through May 1, 2043
-17-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Annual Work Plan" means each of the annual work plans and budgets for the
Project to be prepared or updated by the Provincial Project Management Office,
submitted by the Project Implementing Entity, and approved by the Bank, on an
annual basis as provided for in Section I.A.3 of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of Section paragraph 5 of the
Appendix to the General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants," dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
3. 
"Anqing" means the Project Implementing Entity's municipality of Anqing, or any
successor thereto.
4. 
"Bank's Safeguards Policies" means the operational policies and procedures for
financing of development projects by the Bank at the date of this Agreement and
relating to Environmental Assessment, Natural Habitats, Pest Management,
Indigenous Peoples (Ethnic Minorities), Physical Cultural Resources, Involuntary
Resettlement, Forests, Safety of Dams, Projects on International Waterways, and
Projects in Disputed Areas, as published under www.WorldBank.org/opmanual,
to the extent they are applicable to the Project.
5. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV.A of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
6. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IIBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
7. 
"Displaced Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of the
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts
caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of
shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or
means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to another location;
or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected
areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such persons; and a
"Displaced Person" means any of such Displaced Persons.
8. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" and "ESMF" mean the
environmental and social management framework for the Project, prepared by the
-18-
Project Implementing Entity, acceptable to the Bank, dated December 2017, which
sets out the policies and procedures for the assessment of environmental and social
impacts of, and for the preparation of additional ESMPs as may be required for,
Project activities, as said framework may be revised from time to time with the
prior written agreement of the Bank; and such term includes all schedules and
annexes supplemental to said framework.
9. 
"Environmental and Social Management Plan" or the acronym "ESMP" means the
Project Implementing Entity's environmental and social management plan for the
Project, acceptable to the Bank, dated December 2017, which sets out the social
and environmental protection measures, including chance finds procedures, in
respect of the Project, as well as administrative, monitoring, supervision and
training arrangements to ensure the implementation of said plan, as said plan may
be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and
such term includes all schedules and annexes supplemental thereto, and any
additional ESMP as may be required for Project activities.
10. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project
Financing", dated July 14, 2017, with the modifications set forth in Section II of
this Appendix.
11. 
"Guidelines for the Purchase of Basic Aged-Care Services" means the Project
Implementing Entity's disbursement guidelines for Part B.2(a) of the Project,
acceptable to the Bank, setting forth the definitions, pricing, eligibility criteria, as
well as the procedures for the contracting of eligible service providers, and the
disbursement, procurement and financial management of all activities under Part
B.2(a) of the Project, as the same may be revised from time to time with the prior
written agreement of the Bank.
12. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the reasonable costs incurred by the Project
Implementing Entity, for purposes of Project management and implementation
based on the Annual Work Plans approved in advance by the Bank, on account of
office rental, supplies and consumables, utilities, bank charges, communications,
mass media and printing services, interpretation and translation services, vehicle
rental, 
operation, 
maintenance, 
and 
insurance, 
building and equipment
maintenance, local transportation, domestic travel, lodging, and subsistence
allowances, and salaries of contractual and temporary staff, but excluding salaries
and any salary supplements of members of the Borrower's or the Project
Implementing Entity's civil service.
13. 
"Lu'An" means the Project Implementing Entity's municipality of Lu'An, or any
successor thereto.
-19-
14. 
"Ningguo City" means the Project Implementing Entity's county-level city of
Ningguo, or any successor thereto.
15. 
"Output" means a basket of aged-care services designed and delivered to eligible
beneficiaries under Part B.2(a) of the Project, in accordance with procedures and
standards acceptable to the Bank, and in accordance with the Project Operations
Manual and the Guidelines for the Purchase of Basic Aged-Care-Services.
16. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
17. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Project Implementing Entity's procurement plan
for the Project, dated May 14, 2018 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the
Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said
paragraphs.
18. 
"Project Expert Panel" or "PEP" means the Project Expert Panel organized by
Anhui under its Department of Civil Affairs, to provide technical assistance to the
PIUs on Project preparation, implementation and review, and any successor
thereto, and referred to in Section I.A.1(e) of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.
19. 
"Project Implementing Entity" or "Anhui" means the Borrower's province of
Anhui, or any successor thereto.
20. 
"Project Implementing Units" or "PIUs" means, collectively, each of the entities
referred to in Section I.A. 1(d) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and any
successor thereto.
21. 
"Project Leading Group" means the leading group referred to in Section I.A.1(a)
of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, organized within Anhui's Department
of Civil Affairs, or any successor thereto.
22. 
"Project Management Offices" or "PMOs" means, collectively, each of the offices
referred to in Section I.A. 1(c) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and any
successor thereto.
23. 
"Project Operations Manual" means the Project Implementing Entity's manual for
the Project dated May 15, 2018, acceptable to the Bank, which incorporates the
Procurement Plan, procurement manual, financial management manual, the
Project's results framework and performance indicators, technical modules, and
other operational arrangements for the Project, as the same may be revised from
time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
-20-
24. 
"Provincial Project Management Office" or "PPMO" means the office referred to
in Section I.A.1(b) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, or any successor
thereto.
25. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" or the acronym "RAP" mean any of the resettlement
action plans for the Project prepared by the Project Implementing Entity,
acceptable to the Bank, (a) including the one dated December 26, 2017 and
disclosed on the World Bank's external website (infoshop) on January 3, 2018,
setting forth, inter alia: (i) the principles and procedures governing the acquisition
of land required for the Project and related facilities; (ii) actions and measures for
the payment of compensation to Displaced Persons and for their resettlement and
rehabilitation; (iii) the criteria and procedures for developing and implementing
actions and measures, acceptable to the Bank, for mitigating the adverse social
impacts resulting from the implementation of activities in locations that are not
directly identified in the RAP; (iv) grievance redress mechanisms; and (v)
reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan, as the
same may be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of the
Bank; and such term includes all attachments and annexes supplemental to said
plan, and (b) any additional RAPs as may be required for Project activities in
accordance with the provisions of the Resettlement Policy Framework.
26. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" means the Project Implementing Entity's
resettlement policy framework for the Project, acceptable to the Bank, dated
December 26, 2017, which sets out the policies and procedures for the acquisition
of land and other assets, compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation of
Displaced Persons, and for the preparation of RAPs as may be required for Project
activities, as said framework may be revised from time to time with the prior
written agreement of the Bank; and such term includes all schedules and annexes
supplemental to said framework.
27. 
"Safeguards Instruments" means, collectively, the Environmental and Social
Management Framework, the Environmental and Social Management Plan, the
Resettlement Policy Framework, and the Resettlement Action Plan(s).
28. 
"Service Agreement" means an agreement to be entered into between a PMO and
a service provider for the provision of aged-care services under Part B.2(a) of the
Project, pursuant to the provisions in Section I.C. 1(a) of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement; "Service Agreements" means, collectively, all such agreements.
29. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the
date of the Loan Agreement" in the General Conditions.
-21-
30. 
"Suzhou" means the Project Implementing Entity's municipality of Suzhou, or any
successor thereto.
31. 
"Training and Workshops" means the costs of training activities under the Project,
based on the Annual Work Plans approved in advance by the Bank, and attributable
to seminars, workshops, and domestic and overseas training and study tours, along
with travel and subsistence allowances for training participants, services of
trainers, rental of training facilities, preparation and reproduction of training
materials, and other activities directly related to course preparation and
implementation.
32. 
"Unit Cost" means the cost of reference as may be established from time to time
by the Project Implementing Entity and the Bank, for withdrawals and payments
under Category (2) of the table set forth in Section IV.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and as calculated on the basis of and within the limits set forth in the
Guidelines for the Purchase of Basic Aged-Care Services.
33. 
"Xuanzhou" means the Project Implementing Entity's district of Xuanzhou, or any
successor thereto.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
Section 5.13 (Procurement) is deleted in its entirety and the remaining section in
Article V is renumbered accordingly.
2. 
Paragraphs 84 (Procurement Plan) and 85 (Procurement Regulations) in the
Appendix are deleted in their entirety and the subsequent paragraphs are renumbered
accordingly.
