OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8851-CG
Loan Agreement
(Additional Financing for the Statistics Capacity Building Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8851-CG
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between REPUBLIC OF CONGO
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing additional financing for the Original
Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) and activities related thereto. The Borrower
and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of twenty million one hundred
thousand Euros (E20, 100,000), as such amount maybe converted from time to time through
a Currency Conversion ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1
to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Fixed Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project Implementing Entity, with
the assistance of the MOA for Part 2(a) of the Project, in accordance with the provisions
of Article V of the General Conditions and the Project Agreement.
-2-
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that the Project
Implementing Entity's Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Project Implementing
Entity to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the event
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and the
Project Implementing Entity in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) 
the Borrower has adopted the Project Operations Manual in accordance with the
provisions of Section I.B.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the Subsidiary
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Project
Implementing Entity and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the Project
Implementing Entity in accordance with its terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the
Signature Date.
5.04. 
For purposes of Section 9.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement (other than those providing for payment
obligations) shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its minister responsible for finance.
6.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower's address is:
Ministry of Finance and Budget
Avenue Foch
B.P. 2083
Brazzaville
Republic of Congo; and
(b) the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile:
(242) 2281.43.69
-3-
6.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
REPUB 
OF0
Levi 
dRepresentative
Title: 
Miaist. 
ide M s
el dw Buftei
Date: 
1 
AN 
-04
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND 
EVELOPMENT
By__
Authori 2d Representative
Name:
Title:
Date: 
4
-4-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) strengthen the NSS in the production and
dissemination of quality statistics relevant for policies and decision-making; and (b) promote
demand for statistical information.
The Project consists of the following parts:
1 .
Improving the Institutional Organizational Framework of the NSS
(a) 
Improving the organizational structure of the NSS, including, inter alia:
(i) undertaking a comprehensive review of the NSS's institutional framework and
making recommendations for improvement; and (ii) developing protocols,
guidelines, standard methodologies, competencies and tools designed to enhance
the quality and efficiency of management of data production and dissemination at
all levels.
(b) 
Strengthening the capacity of the NSS to attract and retain qualified staff,
including, inter alia: (i) carrying out a comprehensive review of human resource
policies and development of strategic staffing plans; (ii) developing and
implementing a comprehensive training program, including: (A) on the job and
thematic training program; 
and 
(B) 
a technical mentorship program;
(iii) strengthening the capacity of Centre d'Application de la Statistique et de la
Planification ("CASP"), including, inter alia: (A) undertaking a comprehensive
institutional assessment of CASP so 
as 
to identify 
gaps 
and make
recommendations for improvement; (B) undertaking a comprehensive review of
the statistical training curricula and development of appropriate syllabi,
harmonized with regional statistics schools; (C) providing Scholarships to
Beneficiaries for pre-service formal training; and (D) establishing an internship
program; and (iv) developing a strategic human resources plan consisting of a
review of the collective labor agreement and design of a labor market
competitiveness approach.
(c) 
Constructing a new office building for the INS and CASP, including, inter alia:
(i) assessing the environmental and social conditions; (ii) providing furniture and
internet connectivity; (iii) developing a manual guiding the management and
maintenance of the new building; (iv) financing the lease of an office location
during construction of the new office building; and (v) carrying out relevant
architectural and other necessary studies.
(d) 
Upgrading NSS statistical and ICT infrastructure and data management systems,
through: (i) supplying, installing and maintaining of ICT, including, computer
hardware, software, related infrastructure, internet connectivity, local area
networks and other data management systems, with a view to improving data
collection, analysis and dissemination; (ii) developing a web-based portal for
accessing NSS data; and (iii) establishing an electronic data archive.
-5-
2. 
Improving the Production, Dissemination and Use of Statistics
(a) 
Improving the quality of statistics produced by NSS and supporting the
development of new statistical products and services, including, inter alia,
production of:
(i) 
demographic and social sector statistics, consisting of: (A) population
census data, in particular: (aa) analysis of the 2007 census and
development of a sample frame for household surveys; (bb) preparation
and implementation of the Borrower's 2018 Population and Housing
Census, including post-census survey to analyze its coverage and quality;
and (cc) analysis and dissemination of the 2018 census results; (B) vital
statistics, 
in particular: 
(aa) improving life events records and
centralization of related data, 
using updated technologies; 
and
(bb) strengthening INS capacity for compilation and dissemination of said
vital statistics; (C) household level surveys, consisting of: (aa) budget and
consumption statistics, through the piloting, implementation, analysis and
dissemination of the existing 1-2-3 survey based on the pilot census
sampling frame; (bb) health statistics, through support to the piloting,
implementation, analysis and dissemination of the Demographic and
Health Survey, and the setting up of a permanent system for the monitoring
of key indicators: (cc) a system of continuous household surveys, through
the design of instruments and mechanisms for planning and identifying
required data as well as the implementation of continuous data collection
for a defined set of key indicators.
(ii) 
Economic and sector statistics, consisting of: (A) enterprise census,
specifically through the production of an enterprise sample frame and
cartography, piloting, data collection using Computer Assistance Personal
Interview (CAPI) technology, and the setting up of a permanent system of
enterprise data production and dissemination; (B) national accounts
statistics, in particular: rebasing of national accounts using 2011 or later
base years; preparation of a plan for adoption and implementation of the
2008 SNA; and publication of the 2015-17 national accounts series;
(C) price statistics, in particular: (aa) extension of the CPI to progressively
cover all provincial headquarters, to be used to create a harmonized CPI;
(bb) updating of the food basket, weights and CPI base year using the 2011
household budget consumption survey (Ecom201 1); and (cc) production
of business cycle indices including a producer price index, an import price
index, an expert price index and a wholesale price index; (D) external trade
statistics, in particular: (aa) development and implementation of a plan to
improve external trade statistics, based on a diagnostics study of key data
sources; and (bb) production of external trade statistics related to goods,
services and the informal sector; (E) strengthening the capacity of the
Borrower's Fiscal and Macroeconomic Framework Standing Committee
(Comitd Permanent de Cadrage Macroeconomique et Budgtaire) related
to modeling, forecasting, 
economic policy analysis, and budget
preparation; (F) agriculture statistics, through the support to the: (aa)
-6-
production of a sampling plan based on an assessment of the sampling
frame of the current agricultural census; (bb) piloting, implementation,
analysis and dissemination of the Borrower's current agricultural survey,
and the setting up of a permanent system for the production and
dissemination of agricultural statistics; (cc) carrying out of a needs
assessment of departments responsible for agriculture statistics with a
view to identifying gaps and making recommendations for improvement;
and (dd) preparation and implementation of a plan for improving
production of said agriculture statistics; (G) preparation of a diagnostics
study and plan designed to improve production of forestry statistics; and
(H) carrying out of a diagnostics study, as well as preparation of an action
plan designed to promote production and dissemination of reliable
statistical information on mining, gas and oil activities.
(b) 
Supporting dissemination and use of statistical information, including, inter alia:
(i) supporting the INS led Poverty Observatory and economic monitoring
activities; (ii) supporting the development of a national development plan for the
years 2018 to 2022; (iii) undertaking a comprehensive review of various policy
instruments with a view to identifying gaps and making recommendations for
improvement; (iv) developing and implementing an appropriate access to
information and micro-data policy; (v) disseminating statistics through the design
and implementation of a web-based open data portal including a platform for
provision of feedback by users; (vi) developing and implementing an information,
education and communications strategy on statistical products and services;
(vii) conducting and coordinating conferences, seminars, workshops and exchange
programs so as to share knowledge, and stimulate open discussions/debates; and
(viii) updating archival systems.
(c) 
Providing PBPs to Eligible Units against their level of performance achieved, in
accordance with the Project Operations Manual for activities under Part 2(a) of the
Project.
3. 
Project Management
Project implementation and strengthening the capacity of the Project Implementing Entity
for the day to day coordination, implementation and management (including, fiduciary
aspects, monitoring and evaluation, carrying out of audits and reporting) of Project
activities and results.
/rl
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements; Subsidiary Agreement
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the
Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity under a subsidiary agreement between
the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions approved
by the Bank ("Subsidiary Agreement"), which shall include, inter alia, the following:
(a) 
a provision stating that the principal amount of the Loan shall be made available
under the Subsidiary Agreement ("Subsidiary Financing") and denominated in
Euros;
(b) 
a provision indicating that the Subsidiary Financing shall be made available on
grant terms; and
(c) 
a provision obligating the Borrower to obtain rights adequate to protect its interests
and those of the Bank, including the right to:
(i) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Project Implementing Entity to use
the proceeds of the Subsidiary Financing, or obtain a refund of all or any
part of the amount of the Subsidiary Financing then withdrawn, upon the
Project Implementing Entity's failure to perform any of its obligations
under the Subsidiary Agreement; and
(ii) 
require the Project Implementing Entity to: (A) carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
economic, fiduciary, managerial, environmental and social standards and
practices satisfactory to the Bank, including in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to the recipients
of Loan proceeds other than the Borrower, (B) provide, promptly as
needed, the resources required for the purpose; (C) procure the goods,
works, non-consulting services and services to be financed out of the
Subsidiary Financing in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement;
(D) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the progress
of the Project and the achievement of its objective; (E) (aa) maintain a
financial management system and prepare financial statements in
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to
the Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations, resources
and expenditures related to the Project; and (bb) at the Bank's or the
Borrower's 
request, 
have 
such 
financial 
statements 
audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, and
promptly furnish the statements as so audited to the Borrower and the
-8-
Bank; (F) enable the Borrower and the Bank to inspect the Project, its
operation and any relevant records and documents; and (G) prepare and
furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such information as the Borrower
or the Bank shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing Subsidiary
Agreement.
2. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish
the purposes of the Loan.
(b) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to operate and maintain,
throughout Project implementation, the Project Implementation Unit ("PIU"), with
functions and responsibilities, including the responsibility for the overall management,
coordination and implementation of the Project, and adequate staff with qualifications and
experience and under terms of reference, all acceptable to the Bank.
4. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to maintain, at all times during
the implementation of the Project, the Project Steering Committee ("PSC") to be
responsible for prompt and efficient oversight of implementation of activities under the
Project, and shall take all actions, including, the provision of funding, personnel and other
resources necessary to enable the PSC to perform its functions.
5. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to maintain, at all times during
the implementation of the Project, the Directors' Committee ("DC") to be responsible for
providing technical advice and coordination to facilitate the implementation of the Project
activities. To this end, the Project Implementing Entity shall take all actions, including, the
provision of funding, personnel and other resources necessary to enable the DC to perform
its functions.
B. 
Implementation Arrangements
1 .
Project Operations Manual
(a) 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to update, adopt and
thereafter implement the Project, in accordance with a manual ("Project Operations
Manual"), which shall include provisions on the following matters:
(i) 
capacity building activities for sustained achievement of the Project's
objectives;
(ii) 
arrangements on financial management, setting forth the detailed policies
and procedures for financial management under the Project;
(iii) 
procurement management procedures;
-9-
(iv) 
institutional administration, coordination and day to day execution of
Project activities;
(v) 
monitoring and evaluation;
(vi) 
reporting;
(vii) 
information, education and communication of Project activities;
(viii) 
the eligibility criteria and detailed guidelines and procedures for the
selection and approval of Beneficiaries and for provision of Scholarships
to said Beneficiaries under Part 1 (b)(iii)(C) of the Project;
(ix) 
the PBP Arrangement; and
(x) 
such other technical and organizational arrangements and procedures as
shall be required for the implementation of the Project.
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to afford the Bank a
reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower on the Project
Operations Manual, and thereafter shall adopt it as approved by the Bank.
(c) 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the Project
in accordance with the Project Operations Manual; provided, however, that in case
of any conflict between the provisions of the Project Operations Manual and the
provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
(d) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause the Project
Implementing Entity not to amend, abrogate or waive any provision of the Project
Operations Manual.
2. 
Annual Work Plan and Budget
(a) 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish
to the Bank not later than December 15 of each Fiscal Year during the
implementation of the Project, a work plan and budget containing all activities
proposed to be included in the Project during the following Fiscal Year, and a
proposed financing plan for expenditures required for such activities, setting forth
the proposed amounts and sources of financing.
(b) 
Each such proposed work plan and budget shall specify any Training activities that
may be required under the Project, including: (i) the type of Training; (ii) the
purpose of the Training; (iii) the personnel to be trained; (iv) the institution or
individual who will conduct the Training; (v) the location and duration of the
Training; and (vi) the cost of the Training.
(c) 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to afford the Bank a
reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower on each such
proposed work plan and budget, and thereafter ensure that the Project is
- 10 
implemented with due diligence during said following Fiscal Year in accordance
with such work plan and budget as shall have been approved by the Bank ("Annual
Work Plan and Budget").
(d) 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity not to make or allow to
be made any change to the approved Annual Work Plan and Budget without prior
approval in writing by the Bank.
C. 
Scholarships under Part 1 (b)(iii)(C) of the Project
1. 
Eligibility Criteria. In order to ensure the proper implementation of Part 1 (b)(iii)(C) of the
Project, the Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to administer
Scholarships in accordance with eligibility criteria, guidelines and procedures acceptable
to the Bank, as further elaborated in the Project Operations Manual, which shall include,
inter alia, the following:
(a) 
the Project Implementing Entity has determined on the basis of an appraisal carried
out in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and elaborated in the
Project Operations Manual, that:
(i) 
the Beneficiary satisfies all the requirements elaborated in said Project
Operations Manual;
(ii) 
each proposed Training Provider: (A) is a legal entity and a public or a
private provider of said pre-service formal training program, with the
organization, management, technical capacity and financial resources
necessary to carry out said pre-service formal training program; (B) has
identified and selected Beneficiaries in accordance with eligibility criteria
and procedures acceptable to the Bank; and (C) has prepared a satisfactory
financing plan, and a satisfactory implementation plan for the proposed
pre-service formal training program; and
(iii) 
the proposed pre-service formal training program is technically feasible,
and financially and economically sound; and
(b) 
(i) the aggregate amount of all Scholarships made in a given calendar year to
Beneficiaries shall not exceed the limit set out in the Annual Work Plan and
Budget; and (ii) the maximum amount of each Scholarship shall not exceed 100
percent of the total estimated cost of the pre-service formal training program minus
the amount of other funds allocated to finance such cost.
-11 
D. 
PBP
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out Part 2(a) of the
Project in accordance with the detailed agreements and procedures for PBPs ("PBP
Arrangement"), set forth in the Project Operations Manual, including the submission of
evidence to the Borrower that the Eligible Staff reached the required level of achievement
of selected performance indicators included in the Project Operations Manual.
2. 
For purposes of carrying out Part 2(a) of the Project, the Borrower shall cause the Project
Implementing Entity to:
(a) 
select, hire and retain during the implementation of the Project an Independent
Verification Entity with qualifications and experience and under terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with Section III of this Schedule;
(b) 
cause the Independent Verification Entity to: (i) carry out a periodic technical
verification of the level of achievement of the performance indicators set forth in
the PBP Arrangement section of the Project Operations Manual; 
and
(ii) (A) prepare Independent Verification Reports covering a period of one calendar
quarter, of such scope and detail as set forth in the Project Operations Manual; and
(B) furnish each Independent Verification Report to the Borrower, no later than
sixty (60) days after the end of each calendar quarter; and
(c) 
no later than thirty (30) days after the receipt of each Independent Verification
Report, forward to the Bank each said report.
E. 
Safeguards
1 .
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to implement the Project in
accordance with the ESMF (and any environmental and social management plans prepared
thereunder).
2. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall ensure that the works under Part 1(c) of the Project do not
involve any Resettlement; or
(b) 
In the event that the need for Resettlement arises during Project implementation
due to unforeseen circumstances, the Borrower
(i) 
shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to, prior to the carrying out of
any given works in which Resettlement is involved. (A) prepare the
necessary resettlement action plans in accordance with the RPF,
acceptable to the Bank; (B) publicly disclose these resettlement action
plans; (C) pay Resettlement compensation when and if required under a
resettlement action plan; and (D) thereafter implement such plans in
accordance with their terms; and
(ii) 
shall pay from its own resources any Resettlement compensation required
under the Project, including any costs associated with land acquisition and
Resettlement required under the Proj ect., 
- 12 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than forty-five (45)
days after the end of each calendar quarter, covering the calendar semester.
Section III. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A. 
General
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in
accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to finance Eligible Expenditures in the amount allocated
and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category of the following
table:
Amount of the 
Percentage of Expenditures
Loan Allocated 
to be Financed
Category 
(expressed in EUR) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, 
14,667,750 
100%
non-consulting services,
consulting services,
Training, Operating
Costs and Scholarships
under the Project except
Part 2(c)
(2) PBPs under Part 2(c) of 
482,000 
100%
the Project
(3) Refund of the 
4,900,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Preparation Advance 
Section 2.07 (a) of the General
Conditions
(4) Front-end Fee 
50,250 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions
(5) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar 
Section 4.05 (c) of the General
premium 
Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
20,100,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the Signature Date; or
-13-
(b) 
under Category 2, unless the Recipient has:
(i) 
included the PBP Arrangement in the Project Operations Manual, in a
manner and with content satisfactory to the Bank; and
(ii) 
selected and hired an Independent Verification Entity in accordance with
Section I.D.2 of this Schedule 2.
2. 
The Closing Date is April 30, 2021
- 14 
SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date ("Installment Share").
Level Principal Repayments
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
On each April 15 and October 15 
8.33%
Beginning October 15, 2032
through October 15, 2037
On April 15, 2038 
8.37%
- 15 
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Annual Work Plan and Budget" means the work plan and budget prepared annually by
the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of Section I.B.2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption
in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006
and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
2. 
"Association" means the International Development Association.
3. 
"Beneficiary" means a student who is eligible to receive a Scholarship under Part
1 (b)(iii)(C) of the Project and is duly registered in an eligible pre-service formal training
program for the purpose; and "Beneficiaries" means, collectively, two or more such
students.
4. 
"Centre d'Application de la Statistique et de la Planification" or "CASP" means the
Borrower's Center of Applied Statistics and Planning.
5. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
6. 
"CPI" means the Consumer Price Index.
7. 
"Directors' Committee" or "DC" means the Borrower's committee referred to in Section
I.A.5 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
8. 
"DGDDI" means the Borrower's General Directorate of Customs.
9. 
"Eligible Staff" means any staff from the INS (including provincial statistical agencies) or
from the statistics unit of the MOA responsible for carrying out activities under Part 2(a)
of the Project that, in accordance with the criteria included in the Project Operations
Manual, has reached the required level of achievement of selected performance indicators
included in the Project Operations Manual.
10. 
"ESMF" or "Environmental and Social Management Framework" means the framework
for the environmental and social actions duly published in the Borrower's territory and the
World Bank's external website on December 2017 to be prepared in respect of the Project,
setting forth the measures designed to mitigate the environmental and social impact of the
Project, including without limitation, impacts on cultural heritage sites and the handling of
archeological findings, as said framework may be amended from time to time with the
Bank's prior approval.
11. 
"Fiscal Year" or "FY" means the Borrower's twelve (12) month period starting January 1
and ending December 31 of the same year.
- 16 
12. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions 
for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing", dated
July 14, 2017.
13. 
"ICD-10" means the International Classification of Diseases, a standard diagnostic tool for
epidemiology, health management and clinical purposes, as endorsed by the Forty-third
(43) World Health Assembly in May 1990 and came into use in World Health Organization
member states as from 1994.
14. 
"ICT" means information and communications technology.
15. 
"Independent Verification Entity" means the independent verification entity referred to in
Section D.2 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
16. 
"Independent Verification Report" means each of the quarterly reports referred to in
Section D.2(b)(ii) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
17. 
"Involuntary Resettlement" means any direct economic and social impact caused by:
(a) the involuntary taking of land resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter, (ii) loss of
assets or access to assets, and (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether
or not the affected persons must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction
of access to legally designated parks and protected areas resulting in adverse impacts on
the livelihoods of such person.
18. 
"NIS" means the Borrower's National Institute of Statistics.
19. 
"ISCO-08" means the 2008 International Standard Classification of Occupations.
20. 
"METPFQE" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for technical and professional
education, qualifying training and employment, and any successor thereto.
21. 
"MOA" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for agriculture, or any successor
thereto.
22. 
"NSS" means the Borrower's National System of Statistics established and operating
pursuant to Law No. 8-2009 dated October 28, 2009 (Sur la Statistique).
23. 
"ONEMO" means the Borrower's National Office of Employment established and
operating pursuant to Law No. 03-1985 dated February 14, 1985 as amended to date
(including by Law No. 01-1986 dated February 22, 1986, and Law No. 022-1988 dated
September 17, 1988).
24. 
"Operating Costs" means the incremental expenses incurred on account of Project
implementation, based on the Annual Work Plan and Budget approved by the Bank
pursuant to Section I.B.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and consisting of expenditures
for office supplies, vehicle operation and maintenance, maintenance of equipment,
communication and insurance costs, office administration costs, utilities, rental,
consumables, accommodation, travel and per diem, and salaries of Project staff, but
- 17 
excluding the salaries of the Borrower's civil service, meeting and other sitting allowances
and honoraria to said staff.
25. 
"Original Financing Agreement" means the financing agreement in support of the Original
Project, between the Recipient and the Association, dated July 7, 2014, as amended to the
date of this Agreement (Credit No.5500-CG).
26. 
"Original Project" means the project described in Schedule 1 to the Original Financing
Agreement.
27. 
"Poverty Observatory" mean the poverty observatory led by the NIS aimed at monitoring
economic activities by publishing collaborative analytical works on many themes for
greater public scrutiny.
28. 
"PBP" means performance-based payment, a cash incentive (but excluding the salaries of
officials and public servants of the Borrower's civil service) paid to an Eligible Unit on the
basis of its level of achievement of a set of performance indicators set forth in the Project
Operations Manual.
29. 
"PBP Arrangement" means arrangement for PBPs referred to in Section I.D of this
Agreement, including: (a) identification of specific activities subject to PBP, and the
deliverables and performance indicators for each such activity, including unit of measure;
(b) eligibility criteria and mechanisms for calculating PBPs for each such deliverable,
including procurement assessments, flow of funds and mechanisms for reimbursement of
said PBPs; (c) verification mechanisms for said deliverables and PBPs; (d) periodicity of
calculating PBPs; (e) reporting mechanisms related to PBPs; and (f) terms and conditions
of PBPs, including modes of Payment.
30. 
"Preparation Advance" means the advance referred to in Section 2.07 (a) of the General
Conditions, granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreements: (a) No.
V0870, signed on behalf of the Bank on June 23, 2017, and on behalf of the Borrower on
June 23, 2017; and (b) No. V172, signed on behalf of the Bank on March 14, 2018 and on
behalf of the Borrower on March 14, 2018.
31. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated January
25, 2018, and referred to in paragraphs 4.4 and 4.5 of the Procurement Regulations, and
incorporated by reference in this Loan Agreement, as the same shall be updated from time
to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
32. 
"Procurement Regulations" means, for purposes of paragraph 87 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF Borrowers", dated
July 2016, revised November 2017.
33. 
"Project Agreement" means an agreement referred to in Article 3.01 of this Agreement, to
be entered into between the Project Implementing Entity and the Borrower, to facilitate the
implementation of the Project.
34. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means the NIS.
- 18 
35. 
"Project 
Implementing 
Entity's 
Legislation" 
means 
Law 
No. 
8-2009 
dated
October 28, 2009, Sur la Statistique, as amended to date.
36. 
"Project Implementing Unit" or "PIU" means the unit within the Project Implementing
Entity referred to in Section I.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
37. 
"Project Operations Manual" means the Borrower's manual referred to in Section I.B. 1 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
38. 
"Project Steering Committee" or "PSC" means the Borrower's committee referred to in
Section I.A.4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
39. 
"Resettlement" means the impact of an involuntary taking of land under the Project, which
taking causes affected persons to have their: (a) standard of living adversely affected; or
(b) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and grazing
land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or
permanently; or (c) access to productive assets adversely affected, temporarily or
permanently; or (d) business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely
affected, temporarily or permanently.
40. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the Borrower's framework, acceptable
to the Bank duly published in the Borrower's territory and the Bank's external website in
January 2017 to be prepared in respect of the Project, outlining general implementation
procedures, mitigation measures and monitoring procedures for Involuntary Resettlement
under the Project, as said framework may be amended from time to time with the Bank's
prior approval.
41. 
"Scholarship" means a grant made or proposed to be made out of the proceeds of the Loan
to a Beneficiary to finance Eligible Expenditures for an eligible pre-service formal training
program and such term includes, inter alia, related tuition fees, accommodation, travel and
stipends, and "Scholarships" means, collectively, two or more such grants.
42. 
"SNA" means the Borrower's System of National Accounts.
43. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.A of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan
available to the Project Implementing Entity.
44. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the date of the Loan
Agreement" in the General Conditions.
45. 
"Training" means the costs associated with training, conferences, workshops and study
tours provided under the Project, based on the Annual Work Plan and Budget approved by
the Bank pursuant to Section I.B.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, consisting of
reasonable expenditures (other than expenditures for consultants' services) for: (a) travel,
room, board andper diem expenditures incurred by trainers and trainees in connection with
their training and by non-consultant training facilitators; (b) course fees; (c) training facility
- 19 
rentals; and (d) training material preparation, acquisition, reproduction and distribution
expenses.
46. 
"Training Provider" means a legal entity selected to provide pre-service formal training to
a Beneficiary under Part 1(b)(iii)(A) of the Project; and "Training Providers" means,
collectively, two or more such entities.#W
