OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8890-CN
Loan Agreement
(Guangxi Poverty Reduction Program for Results)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
OF CHINA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of four hundred million
Dollars ($400,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion ("Loan"), to assist in financing the program
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Program").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall
be deposited by the Bank into an account specified by the Borrower and acceptable
to the Bank.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread; or such rate as
may apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 1 and November 1 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
2.08 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure
Limit (as said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of
this Section), the Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of
one half of one percent (0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess
-2-
Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for
each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if any)
shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set
forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during
which the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit,
the product of: (A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the
ratio of all (or, if the Bank so determines, a portion) of the Loan
to the aggregate amount of all (or the equivalent portions) of the
loans made by the Bank to the Borrower and to other borrowers
guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an exposure
surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined from
time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the
Bank's financial exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded,
would subject the Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined
from time to time by the Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total
financial exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by
the Bank.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Program. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause the Program to be carried out by the Program
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and the Program Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower's
address is:
-3-
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Xicheng District
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China; and
(b) the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile:
(86-10) 6855-2077
5.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank's address
is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile:
1-202-477-6391
-4-
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By
Authorized Representative
Name:
Date:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized 
epresentative
Name:
Title: ___ 
__ 
__ 
__66J__ 
_2_t
Date:
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Description
The objective of the Program is to enhance the impact and efficiency of the
Guangxi Consolidated Poverty Reduction Program in the Targeted Counties.
The Program consists of the following activities:
A. 
Improved Income Generation for Rural Poor
1. 
Agricultural Industrialization. Supporting the development of Poverty Reduction
Leading Enterprises and Pro-poor Farmer Professional Cooperatives, and
enhancing the associated institutional mechanisms through poverty reduction
accreditation mechanisms for enterprises, 
and improved operational and
governance standards and poverty targeting for farmer cooperatives.
2. 
Skills Training. Scaling up farmers' participation and accreditation under the New
Professional Farmers Development Program.
B. 
Improved Infrastructure for Rural Poor
1. 
Drinking Water Supply. Supporting the upgrading and renovation of village-level
drinking water supply infrastructure.
2. 
Rural Roads. Supporting connectivity of natural villages, through, inter alia: (i)
rehabilitation and/or upgrading of natural village roads equal or below Class IV;
(ii) rehabilitation of damaged bridges; and (iii) embedding road safety facilities for
village roads.
3. 
Infrastructure Project Preparation. Strengthening Guangxi's infrastructure
project management capacity.
C. 
Cross-cutting Issues for Enhanced Program Implementation
1. 
Program Budget Planning, Execution and Monitoring. Supporting the introduction
of and capacity building for program-based budgeting for the Consolidated
Poverty Reduction Funds ("CPRF").
2. 
Poverty Monitoring and Evaluation Systems. 
Enhancing the monitoring and
evaluation of poverty reduction activities by supporting the integration of
Guangxi's poverty reduction programs' data into a new data platform.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Program Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Financing Arrangements
1. 
For the purposes of carrying out of the Program, the Borrower shall make available
the proceeds of the Loan to the Program Implementing Entity, under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank, including the following principal terms:
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars or any other
Currency as the Loan may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion of the value of the currency or currencies so
withdrawn (such principal amount determined on the date, or respective
dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account).
(b) 
The principal amount so made available (including an amount equal to the
fee paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement) shall be recovered
over a period of twenty six (26) years, inclusive of a grace period of six
(6) years.
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of
Section 2.05 of this Agreement.
(d) 
A Commitment Charge shall be charged equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Program Implementing Entity to: (a) manage,
operate, monitor, transfer and reconcile the proceeds of the Loan made available
to it pursuant to paragraph 1 above in accordance with arrangements and
procedures acceptable to the Bank; (b) take all required actions, including
provision of timely consents and approvals as may be necessary, to facilitate the
utilization of said Loan proceeds and the implementation of the Program and, to
enable the Program Implementing Entity to comply with its undertakings under the
Program Agreement; and (c) maintain all relevant records and documents related
to the Loan and the Program and provide promptly such documents and records,
including all other information related to the Loan and the Program, as may be
requested by the Borrower or the Bank from time to time.
-7-
B. 
Program Action Plan
The Borrower shall take, and shall cause the Program Implementing Entity to take,
all measures necessary to comply with, or all measures necessary to enable the
Program Implementing Entity to comply with the provisions of Section I.B.2 of
the Schedule to the Program Agreement.
Section H. 
Excluded Activities
The Borrower shall ensure that the Program excludes any activities which:
A. 
in the opinion of the Bank, are likely to have significant adverse impacts that are
sensitive, diverse, or unprecedented on the environment and/or affected people; or
B. 
involve the procurement of: (1) works, estimated to cost $115 million equivalent
or more per contract; (2) goods, estimated to cost $75 million equivalent or more
per contract; (3) non-consulting services, estimated to cost $75 million equivalent
or more per contract; or (4) consulting services, estimated to cost $30 million
equivalent or more per contract.
Section HI. 
Pro2ram Monitoring. Reporting and Evaluation
The Borrower shall cause the Program Implementing Entity to furnish to the Bank
each Program Report not later than sixty (60) days after the end of each calendar
semester, covering the calendar semester.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and
in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the
Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) pay the Front-end Fee;
(b) interest and Commitment Charge; (c) pay each Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar premium; and (d) finance Program Expenditures, on the basis of the
results ("Disbursement Linked Results" or "DLRs") achieved by the Program
Implementing Entity, as measured against specific indicators ("Disbursement
Linked Indicators" or "DLIs"); all as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 of this
Part A.
2. 
The following table specifies each category of withdrawal of the proceeds of the
Loan (including the Disbursement Linked Indicators as applicable) ("Category"),
the Disbursement Linked Results and the Formula for each Category (as
applicable), and the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category:
-8-
Amount of the
Category 
Loan 
Disbursement
(including Disbursement 
Disbursement Linked 
Allocated 
Calculation Formula
Linked Indicator as applicable) 
Result (as applicable) 
(expressed in USD) 
(as applicable)
(1) DLI #1: Number of enterprises 
DLR 
#1: 
100 
100,000,000 
DLR #1: 
$1,000,000
accredited as Poverty Reduction 
enterprises 
accredited 
per 
each 
enterprise
Leading Enterprises 
as Poverty Reduction 
accredited as Poverty
Leading Enterprises 
Reduction 
Leading
Enterprise
(2) DLI #2: Number of Pro-poor DLR #2: 500 Pro-poor 
80,000,000 
DLR #2: $160,000 per
Farmer Professional Cooperatives 
Farmer 
Professional 
each Pro-poor Farmer
meeting 
the 
Operational 
Cooperatives meeting 
Professional
Standards 
the 
Operational 
Cooperative 
meeting
Standards 
the 
Operational
Standards
(3) 
DLI#3: Value of annual 
DLR #3: RMB2 billion 
40,000,000 
DLR #3: $20,000 per
purchases of agricultural products 
in total value of sum of 
each RMB1,000,000 in
by Poverty Reduction Leading 
annual purchases 
by 
annual purchases 
of
Enterprises 
from farmers 
and Poverty 
Reduction 
agricultural 
products
farmer 
cooperatives 
in 
the 
Leading 
Enterprises 
from 
farmers 
and
Targeted Counties 
from 
farmers 
and 
farmer cooperatives by
farmer cooperatives 
Poverty 
Reduction
Leading Enterprises
(4) DLI#4: Number of farmers 
DLR 
#4: 
40,000 
40,000,000 
DLR #4: $1,000 per
completing the New Professional 
farmers completing the 
each 
farmer
Farmer Development 
Training 
New 
Professional 
completing the New
Program 
Farmer 
Development 
Professional 
Farmer
Training Program 
Development Training
Program
(5) DLI #5: Number of Registered 
DLR 
#5: 
210,000 
42,000,000 
DLR #5: $200 per each
Poor Persons with New Piped Registered 
Poor 
Registered .
Poor
Drinking Water Connections 
Persons 
with 
New 
Person with a New
Piped Drinking Water 
Piped Drinking Water
Connections 
Connection
(6) DLI #6: Number of Targeted 
DLR #6: 28 Targeted 
39,900,000 
DLR #6: $1,425,000
Counties 
with 
an 
IT-based 
Counties 
per 
each 
Targeted
infrastructure 
project 
County with an IT-
management system 
based infrastructure
project management
system
-9-
(7) DLI#7: Number of Targeted 
DLR #7: 28 Targeted 
40,600,000 
DLR #7:
Counties with Annual Program- 
Counties in each Year 
Year 1: $500,000 per
based 
Budgeting 
Plans 
and 
each Targeted County
Annual 
Program-based 
with Annual Program-
Expenditure Reports 
based Budgeting Plans
and Annual Program-
based 
Expenditure
Reports in Year 1
Year 2: $500,000 per
each Targeted County
with Annual Program-
based Budgeting Plans
and Annual Program-
based 
Expenditure
Reports in Year 2
Year 3: $450,000 per
each Targeted County
with Annual Program-
based Budgeting Plans
and Annual Program-
based 
Expenditure
Reports in Year 3
(8) 
DLI#8: 
Establishment 
of DLR #8: Guangxi has 
14,300,000 
Not applicable
poverty 
data 
platform 
for established a poverty
monitoring and 
evaluation of data platform, which:
poverty reduction programs 
(a) is accessible and
operative for use by
authorized 
staff 
at
regional, municipal and
county 
level; 
(b)
integrates datasets on:
(i) Poverty Reduction
Leading 
Enterprises;
(ii) Pro-poor Farmer
Professional
Cooperatives; 
(iii)
farmers trained under
the New Professional
Farmer 
Development
Training Program, and
(iv) Annual Program-
based Budgeting Plans
and Annual Program-
based 
Expenditure
Reports; 
and 
(c)
- 10 
preserves 
the 
data
contained therein; all in
accordance 
with the
Quality Standards
(9) Front-end Fee to be paid 
1,000,000
pursuant to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.05 (b) of the General
Conditions
(10) Interest and Commitment 
2,200,000
Charge on the Loan accrued on or
before the last Payment Date
immediately 
preceding 
the
Closing Date, to be paid pursuant
to Sections 2.05 and 2.04 of this
Agreement, 
respectively, 
in
accordance with Section 2.07 (c)
of the General Conditions
(11) Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
0
Rate Collar premium to be paid
pursuant to Section 4.05 (c) of the
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
400,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
on the basis of DLRs achieved prior to the Signature Date, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $20,000,000 may be
made on the basis of DLRs under Categories (4) through (7) achieved prior
to this date but on or after January 1, 2018; or
(b) 
for any DLR under Categories (1) through (8), including those DLRs
referred to in sub-paragraph (a) above, until and unless the Program
Implementing Entity has furnished evidence in accordance with the
provisions of the Verification Protocol and acceptable to the Bank
showing that said DLR has been achieved.
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B. 1 (b) of this Section, the Borrower may
withdraw an amount not to exceed $100,000,000 as an advance under any of the
- 11 
Categories (1) through (8); provided, however, that if the DLRs in the opinion of
the Bank, are not achieved (or only partially achieved) by the Closing Date, the
Borrower shall refund such advance (or portion of such advance as determined by
the Bank in accordance with the Formula) to the Bank promptly upon notice
thereof by the Bank. Except as otherwise agreed with the Borrower, the Bank shall
cancel the amount so refunded. Any further withdrawals requested as an advance
under any Category shall be permitted only on such terms and conditions as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.1(b) of this Section, the amount of the
Loan to be withdrawn upon the verified achievement of any DLR under Categories
(1) through (7) by the end of each Year, shall be calculated, in accordance with the
Formula.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B. 1(b) of this Section, if any of the DLRs
has not been achieved by the date by which the said DLR is set to be achieved, the
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (a) only with respect to DLRs under
Categories (1) through (7), authorize the withdrawal of such lesser amount of the
unwithdrawn proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said Category which, in the
opinion of the Bank, corresponds to the extent of achievement of said DLR, said
lesser amount to be calculated in accordance with the Formula; (b) reallocate all or
a portion of the proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said DLR to any other DLR;
and/or (c) cancel all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said
DLR.
5. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2021.
6. 
For purposes of, inter alia, Section 2.03 and 7.04 of the General Conditions, the
term "Program Expenditures" means those expenditures incurred by Guangxi and
the Targeted Counties under the CPRF and the expenditures financed out of the
Loan proceeds, but excluding any expenditures associated with the Excluded
Activities.
- 12 
SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share").
Level Principal Repayments
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
On each May land November 1
Beginning November 1, 2024 
2.5%
through May 1, 2044
- 13 
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Accreditation 
and Management Work Plan" means the 
Working and
Implementation Plan for the Accreditation and Management ofPoverty Reduction
Leading Enterprises in Guangxi (or as such plan may be otherwise titled) to be
adopted by Guangxi, acceptable to the Bank, setting forth criteria, procedures and
institutional arrangements for the accreditation and management of the Poverty
Reduction Leading Enterprises.
2. 
"Annual Program-based Budgeting Plans" means each of the rolling plans setting
forth the values of budgets, planed sources of funds, planned expenditures of sub-
programs for the CPRF for the fiscal year of Guangxi to be prepared or updated by
each of the Targeted Counties on an annual basis.
3. 
"Annual Program-based Expenditure Reports" means each of the reports setting
forth values of overall fund utilization, actual expenditures of sub-programs
incurred and payment progress thereof, if any, per sub-programs for the CPRF,
covering the period from the beginning of each fiscal year of Guangxi, to be
prepared or updated by each of the Targeted Counties on an annual basis.
4. 
"Anti-corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the Bank's "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Program-for-Results Financing," dated February 1, 2012,
and revised July 10, 2015.
5. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
6. 
"Class IV" means the level of road classification corresponding to two-lane
highways (or single-lane highways if low traffic volume) used for mixed traffic of
automobiles and non-automobiles.
7. 
"Consolidated Poverty Reduction Funds" or "CPRF" means Guangxi's dedicated
funds from national, regional, municipal and county resources for poverty
reduction activities under the Guangxi CPRP, as further determined in accordance
with Guo Ban Fa (2016) circular 22 issued by the Borrower's General Office of
the State Council on April 12, 2016, and Gui Zheng Ban Fa (2016) circular 80
issued by Guangxi on July 15, 2016, as said circulars may be updated or revised
from time to time.
8. 
"Disbursement Linked Indicator" or "DLI" means in respect of a given Category,
the indicator related to said Category as set forth in the first column of the table in
Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
- 14 
9. 
"Disbursement Linked Result" or "DLR" means in respect of a given Category,
the result under said Category as set forth in the second column of the table in
Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, on the basis of the achievement
of which, the amount of the Loan allocated to said result may be withdrawn in
accordance with the provisions of said Section IV.
10. 
"Excluded Activities" means the activities that are referred to in Section II of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and Section II of the Schedule to the Program
Agreement.
11. 
"Formula" means in respect of each DLR under Categories (1) through (7), the
disbursement calculation formula set forth in the fourth column of the table in
Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
12. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Program-for-Results
Financing", dated July 14, 2017.
13. 
"Guangxi" means the Borrower's Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, or any
successor thereto.
14. 
"Guangxi Consolidated Poverty Reduction Program" and "Guangxi CPRP" mean
the Consolidated Poverty Reduction Program adopted by Guangxi in 2016,
designed to achieve the goal of eradicating extreme poverty by 2020 and operated
through the mechanism of CPRF.
15. 
"New Piped Drinking Water Connections" means: (a) new (or rehabilitated)
connections to drinking water supply schemes that supply water to rural
households from a single water source to water stands within less than 800 m from
the respective rural household; or (b) new (or rehabilitated) connections to drinking
water through distribution pipelines in rural residential areas (or natural villages of
at least 20 households).
16. 
"New Professional Farmers Development Training Program" means the training
program managed by Regional Department of Agriculture, in accordance with the
guidelines jointly issued by Regional Department of Agriculture and Regional
Department of Finance on August 24, 2017, and the training plan adopted by
Regional Department of Agriculture on April 24, 2018, as said plan may be
updated or revised from time to time, and designed to scale up the program for
skilling rural farmers on job opportunities creation and income generation.
17. 
"Operational Standards" means a set of standards, acceptable to the Bank, related
to a Pro-poor Farmer Professional Cooperative's registration, membership,
financial management, and decision-making arrangements.
- 15 
18. 
"Poverty Reduction Leading Enterprises" means enterprises duly established and
operating under the laws of the Borrower that receive accreditation by Regional
Poverty Reduction Office, in accordance with the Borrower's Circular on
Improving the Certification and Management System of Poverty Reduction
Leading Enterprises (Document No. 62) dated January 2018, and the Accreditation
and Management Work Plan.
19. 
"Program Action Plan" means the Program Implementing Entity's plan dated May
18, 2018, and referred to in Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
Section I.B.2 of the Schedule to the Program Agreement, as may be amended from
time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
20. 
"Program Coordination Office" means the office established by Regional Poverty
Reduction Office and Regional Department of Agriculture, on April 27, 2018,
responsible for supporting the implementation and coordination of the Program, or
any successor thereto, and referred to in Section I.B.1 (a) (ii) of the Schedule to
the Program Agreement.
21. 
"Program Implementing Entity" means Guangxi.
22. 
"Pro-poor Farmer Professional Cooperative" means a cooperative, which is duly
established under the laws of the Borrower and the Program Implementing Entity,
and at least thirty percent (30%) of its members are Registered Poor Households
or forty percent (40%) of all Registered Poor Households in each of the covered
administrative villages are members of said cooperative.
23. 
"Quality Standards" means a set of technical standards, acceptable to the Bank,
related to data access, preservation, and integration.
24. 
"Regional Department of Agriculture" means Guangxi's 
department of
agriculture, or any successor thereto.
25. 
"Regional Department of Finance" means Guangxi's department of finance, or any
successor thereto.
26. 
"Regional Poverty Reduction Office" means Guangxi's office of poverty
reduction, or any successor thereto.
27. 
"Regional Leading Group" means Guangxi's leading group established on
November 4, 2011, comprising a Vice-Chairman of Guangxi as chair and
representatives of key line departments, or any successors thereto, and referred to
in Section I.B.1 (a) (i) of the Schedule to the Program Agreement.
- 16 
28. 
"Registered Poor Household" means the households within the Targeted Counties
registered as poor in the Borrower's National Poverty Registration Database in
2014.
29. 
"Registered Poor Person" means the persons within the Targeted Counties
registered as poor in the Borrower's National Poverty Registration Database in
2014.
30. 
"RMB" means renminbi, the lawful currency of the Borrower.
31. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the
date of the Loan Agreement" in the General Conditions.
32. 
"Targeted Counties" means Guangxi's counties of Mashan, Shanglin, Rongshui,
Sanjiang, Longsheng, Tengxian, Guiping, Bobai, Fuchuan, Debao, Jingxi, Napo,
Lingyun, Leye, Tianlin, Longlin, Zhaoping, Tian'e, Fengshan, Donglan,
Luocheng, Huanjiang, Bama, Du'an, Dahua, Xincheng, Jinxiu, Tiandeng, or such
other counties of Guangxi as agreed with the Bank.
33. 
"Verification Protocol" means the protocol setting forth the actions and
mechanism required for verification of DLIs, agreed with the Bank, dated May 18,
2018, and referred to in Section IV.B.1 (b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the
same may be amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the
Bank.
34. 
"Year" means any of Year 1, Year 2 or Year 3.
35. 
"Year 1" means the year, starting on January 1, 2018, and ending December 31,
2018.
36. 
"Year 2" means the year, starting on January 1, 2019, and ending December 31,
2019.
37. 
"Year 3" means the year, starting on January 1, 2020, and ending on the Closing
Date.
