OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8856-CN
Loan Agreement
(Zhejiang Qiandao Lake and Xin'an River Basin Water Resources and Ecological
Environment Protection Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
OF CHINA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of one hundred fifty million
Dollars ($150,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may
apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 1 and November 1 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure
Limit (as said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of
this Section), the Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of
one half of one percent (0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess
Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for
-2-
each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if any)
shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set
forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during
which the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit,
the product of: (A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the
ratio of all (or, if the Bank so determines, a portion) of the Loan
to the aggregate amount of all (or the equivalent portions) of the
loans made by the Bank to the Borrower and to other borrowers
guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an exposure
surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined from
time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the
Bank's financial exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded,
would subject the Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined
from time to time by the Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total
financial exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by
the Bank.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project Implementing
Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions
and the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness is that the Subsidiary Agreements have
been executed on behalf of the Project Implementing Entity, through the respective
Project County, and the PIUs, and are binding and enforceable upon the respective
parties thereto in accordance with their terms.
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the Signature Date.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
-3 
5.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower's
address is:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Xicheng District
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China; and
(b) the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile:
(86-10) 6855-2077
5.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank's address
is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile:
1-202-477-6391
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_
Authorized Representative
Name:
Title
Date:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized 
epresentative
Name: 
Title:
Date:
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to strengthen integrated pollution and watershed
management and increase access to improved water supply in selected landscapes in
support of Zhejiang's program for the protection of Qiandao Lake and Xin'an River basin.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Landscape Management Improvement
1.1 
Supporting the improvement of: (a) soil nutrient management through, inter alia:
(i) the development and dissemination of basic soil nutrient management plans;
and (ii) the use of low impact measures to improve the application and utilization
efficiencies of fertilizers; (b) integrated pest management through, inter alia: (i)
upgrading pest monitoring and early warning systems; and (ii) adopting integrated
pest management practices for key cropping systems; and (c) conservation
agriculture practices through, inter alia, the pilot use of low impact soil tillage and
minimum tillage practices.
1.2 
Supporting the construction of livestock waste management facilities and the
improvement of the collection, transfer and treatment of manure.
1.3 
Supporting the improvement of: (a) the ecological environmental functions of
selected plantations and lands by replanting/rehabilitating selected degraded and
damaged areas; and (b) the forest fire prevention and soil erosion, by, inter alia,
upgrading forest and fire access roads, strengthening fire monitoring, early
warning and control facilities, and telecommunications systems, and carrying out
communication campaigns.
1.4 
Supporting the piloting of small scale wetland management.
Part 2: Water Resources Management Improvement
2.1 
Supporting the expansion of the existing wastewater treatment plant in Shouchang
and the associated sewer network.
2.2 
Supporting the improvement of selected water courses, through: (a) the
rehabilitation of river embankments, the dredging of river channels, and the
rehabilitation of existing weirs and construction of new weirs; and (b) the
rehabilitation of field access bridges across selected water courses in Jiande.
-6-
2.3 
Supporting the construction and upgrading of drinking water treatment plants and
the associated piped network in selected townships of the Project Counties, and
providing training in water supply management.
Part 3: Institutional Capacity Building, Monitoring and Project Management
3.1 
Strengthening of administrative and technical capacity at the provincial, county
and PIU levels for Project management; and promoting inter-provincial
coordination for the Xin'an River basin management.
3.2 
Providing analytical and technical support to conduct research programs on
selected topics related to Zhejiang's plans on Xin'an River's and Qiandao Lake's
water 
resources 
and 
ecological 
protection, 
as 
well 
as 
integrated
watershed/landscape management.
3.3 
Supporting: (a) the establishment of a monitoring and evaluation system for Project
implementation, 
including physical, technical and financial progress, and
environmental and social safeguards compliance; and (b) the strengthening of the
existing water environment monitoring system.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arran2ements
A. 
Financing Arrangements
1. 
For the purposes of carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make available
the proceeds of the Loan to the Project Implementing Entity, under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank, including the following principal terms:
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars or any other
Currency as the Loan may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion of the value of the currency or currencies so
withdrawn (such principal amount determined on the date, or respective
dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account).
(b) 
The principal amount so made available (including an amount equal to the
fee paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement) shall be recovered
over a period of twenty-five (25) years, inclusive of a grace period of six
(6) years.
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of
Section 2.05 of this Agreement.
(d) 
A Commitment Charge shall be charged equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to: (a) manage, operate,
monitor, transfer and reconcile the proceeds of the Loan made available to it
pursuant to paragraph 1 above in accordance with arrangements and procedures
acceptable to the Bank; (b) take all required actions, including provision of timely
consents and approvals as may be necessary, to facilitate the utilization of said
Loan proceeds and the implementation of the Project and, to enable the Project
Implementing Entity to comply with its undertakings under the Project Agreement;
and (c) maintain all relevant records and documents related to the Loan and the
Project and provide promptly such documents and records, including all other
information related to the Loan and the Project, as may be requested by the
Borrower or the Bank from time to time.
-8-
B. 
Safeguards
The Borrower shall take, and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to take,
all measures necessary to comply with, or all measures necessary to enable the
Project Implementing Entity to comply with, the provisions of Section I.C of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section II. 
Project Monitorin2 Reporting and Evaluation
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to furnish to the Bank
each Project Report not later than sixty (60) days after the end of each calendar
semester, covering the calendar semester.
Section III. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and
in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the
Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible
Expenditures; and (b) pay: (i) the Front-end Fee; and (ii) each Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar premium; in the amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the
percentage set forth against each Category of the following table:
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) 
financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non-consulting 
128,795,000 
100%
services, 
consulting 
services,
Incremental Operating Costs, and
Training and Workshops for the
Project
(2) 
Output-based 
Incentive 
20,830,000 
100% of amounts disbursed
Payments for Parts 1.1 and 1.2 of
the Project
(3) Front-end Fee 
375,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(4) Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Rate Collar premium 
Section 4.05 (c) of the
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
150,000,000
-9-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000 may be made for payments made prior
to this date but on or after March 1, 2018, for Eligible Expenditures.
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2024.
Section IV. 
Other Undertakin2s
Without prejudice to the provisions of Section III above, the withdrawal of Output-
based Incentive Payments under Category (2) shall be made upon the submission
of evidence acceptable to the Bank verifying the Outputs; and the amount of each
Output-based Incentive Payments shall be calculated as the product of the Unit
Price per the number of Outputs verified by the respective County Project
Management Office; all in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan and
the Implementation Agreement.
-10-
SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share").
Commitment Pri cipal Repayments
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
November 1, 2024 
1.61%
May 1, 2025 
1.65%
November 1, 2025 
1.69%
May 1, 2026 
1.73%
November 1, 2026 
1.78%
May 1, 2027 
1.82%
November 1, 2027 
1.87%
May 1, 2028 
1.91%
November 1, 2028 
1.96%
May 1, 2029 
2.01%
November 1, 2029 
2.06%
May 1, 2030 
2.11%
November 1, 2030 
2.17%
May 1, 2031 
2.22%
November 1, 2031 
2.27%
May 1, 2032 
2.33%
November 1, 2032 
2.39%
May 1, 2033 
2.45%
November 1, 2033 
2.51%
May 1, 2034 
2.57%
November 1, 2034 
2.64%
May 1, 2035 
2.70%
November 1, 2035 
2.77%
May 1, 2036 
2.84%
November 1, 2036 
2.91%
May 1, 2037 
2.98%
November 1, 2037 
3.06%
May 1, 2038 
3.14%
November 1, 2038 
3.21%
May 1, 2039 
3.29%
November 1, 2039 
3.38%
May 1, 2040 
3.46%
November 1, 2040 
3.55%
May 1, 2041 
3.64%
- 11 
November 1, 2041 
3.73%
May 1, 2042 
3.82%
November 1, 2042 
3.92%
May 1, 2043 
3.85%
- 12 
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Annual Work Plan and Budget" means each of the consolidated annual work
plans and budgets for the Project to be prepared or updated by the Provincial
Project Management Office, submitted by the Project Implementing Entity, and
approved by the Bank, on an annual basis as provided for in Section I.B of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
3. 
"Bank's Safeguards Policies" means the operational policies and procedures for
financing of development projects by the Bank at the date of this Agreement and
relating to Environmental Assessment, Natural Habitats, Pest Management,
Indigenous Peoples (Ethnic Minorities), Physical Cultural Resources, Involuntary
Resettlement, Forests, Safety of Dams, Projects on International Waterways, and
Projects in Disputed Areas, as published under http://policies.worldbank.org.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
5. 
"Chun'an" means Zhejiang's county of the same name, or any successor thereto.
6. 
"County Project Management Office" means the county project management
office established within each Project County and to be maintained in accordance
with the provisions of Section I.A, paragraph 1(b) (ii) of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement, and any successors thereto.
7. 
"Chun'an Qiandao Lake Construction Group" means the enterprise of the same
name established and operating pursuant to the Business License No.
91330127557909086Y, dated January 1, 2010, and any successor thereto.
8. 
"Dam Safety Plan" means the action plan for the operations and maintenance of
the Project Dams dated January 2018, as said plan may be revised from time to
time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
9. 
"Displaced Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of the
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts
caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of
shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or
- 13 
means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to another location;
or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected
areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such persons; and a
"Displaced Person" means any of such Displaced Persons.
10. 
"Environmental and Social Management Plan" means the Project Implementing
Entity's environmental and social management plan for the Project, acceptable to
the Bank, dated January 2018, which sets out the environmental protection
measures, including chance finds procedures, measures for the protection of
natural habitats and forests, in respect of the Project, as well as administrative,
monitoring, supervision and training arrangements to ensure the implementation
of said plans, as said plan may be revised from time to time with the prior written
agreement of the Bank, and such term includes all schedules and annexes
supplemental thereto.
11. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project
Financing", dated July 14, 2017.
12. 
"Implementation Agreement" means each agreement to be entered into between
the PIUs and a Project Beneficiary, in accordance with the provisions of Part I.E
of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
13. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the reasonable costs incurred by the Project
Implementing Entity, for purposes of Project management and implementation
based on the Annual Work Plans and Budgets approved in advance by the Bank,
on account of office rental, supplies and consumables, utilities, bank charges,
communications, mass media and printing services, interpretation and translation
services, vehicle rental, operation, maintenance, and insurance, building and
equipment maintenance, local transportation, domestic travel, lodging, and
subsistence allowances, and salaries of contractual and temporary staff, but
excluding salaries and any salary supplements of members of the Borrower's or
the Project Implementing Entity's civil service.
14. 
"Jiande" means Zhejiang's city of the same name, or any successor thereto.
15. 
"Jiande Xinshui Construction Co. LTD" means the enterprise of the same name
established 
and 
operating 
pursuant 
to 
the 
Business 
License 
No.
913301827236489949, dated August 18, 2000, and any successor thereto.
16. 
"Output" means the specific activities under Part 1 of the Project to be carried out
by a Project Beneficiary, as set forth in the respective Implementation Agreement.
17. 
"Output-based Incentive Payments" means the reasonable costs for carrying out
an Output.
- 14 
18. 
"Pest Management Plans" means the Project Implementing Entity' plans,
acceptable to the Bank, dated January 2018, setting out, among other things, the
measures to promote and support safe, effective, and environmentally sound pest
management under the Project; as said plans may be revised from time to time with
the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes all schedules and
annexes supplemental thereto.
19. 
"Procurement Regulations" means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF
Borrowers", dated July 2016, revised November 2017.
20. 
"Project Beneficiary" means a village, association, cooperative, or such other
entity set forth in the Project Implementation Plan, duly established under the laws
of the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity.
21. 
"Project Counties" means, collectively, Chun'an and Jiande; and "Project County"
means, individually, any of such Project Counties.
22. 
"Project Dams" means the dams set forth in the Dam Safety Plan.
23. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means the Zhejiang Province.
24. 
"Project Implementing Units" and the acronym "PIUs" mean, collectively, the
Chun'an Qiandao Lake Construction Group and the Jiande Xinshui Construction
Co. LTD; and "PIU" means, individually, any of such PIUs.
25. 
"Project Implementation Plan" means the Project Implementing Entity's plan
dated January 20, 2018, acceptable to the Bank, describing, among other things:
(a) the Project objective, Project activities and arrangements, acceptable to the
Bank, flow of funds of the proceeds of the Loan and agreed procedures in, inter
alia, procurement, financial management and disbursement; (b) the institutional
arrangements for the implementation of the Project, and the roles and
responsibilities 
of the entities involved 
in Project implementation; 
(c)
arrangements acceptable to the Bank for social and environment safeguards
screening and mitigation; (d) steps and procedures for Project implementation; (e)
procedures for disbursing the Output-based Incentive Payments, and templates for
the Implementation Agreements; and (f) monitoring and evaluation, reporting and
information disclosure arrangements, and the indicators and targets for purposes
of monitoring and evaluation of the progress of the Project.
26. 
"Provincial Project Leading Group" means the leading group established on
December 17, 2004, to be maintained in accordance with the provisions of Section
I.A, paragraph 1(a) (i) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and any
successors thereto.
- 15 
27. 
"Provincial 
Project Management 
Office" means 
the provincial 
project
management office established within Zhejiang's Provincial Construction
Department, on December 17, 2004, to be maintained in accordance with the
provisions of Section I.A, paragraph 1(a) (ii) of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement, and any successor thereto.
28. 
"Qiandao Lake" means the lake of the same name located in the western part of
Zhejiang.
29. 
"Resettlement Action Plans" and "RAPs" mean, collectively, the Project
Implementing Entity's resettlement action plans for the Project, acceptable to the
Bank, dated February 2018, and any additional RAP prepared by the Project
Implementing Entity, acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with the RPF; all
setting forth, inter alia: (a) the principles and procedures governing the acquisition
of land required for the Project and related facilities; (b) actions and measures for
the payment of compensation to Displaced Persons and for their resettlement and
rehabilitation; (c) the criteria and procedures for developing and implementing
actions and measures, acceptable to the Bank, for mitigating the adverse social
impacts resulting from the implementation of activities in locations that are not
directly identified in the RAP; (d) grievance redress mechanisms; and (e) reporting
and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan, as said plans
may be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank;
and such term includes all attachments and annexes supplemental thereto.
30. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" and "RPF" mean the Project Implementing
Entity's resettlement policy framework for the Project, acceptable to the Bank,
dated February 2018, which sets out the policies and procedures for the acquisition
of land and other assets, compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation of
Displaced Persons, and for the preparation of RAPs as may be required for Project
activities, as said framework may be revised from time to time with the prior
written agreement of the Bank; and such term includes all schedules and annexes
supplemental thereto.
31. 
"Safeguards Instruments" means, collectively, the Environmental and Social
Management Plan, the Pest Management Plans, the Resettlement Action Plans, the
Resettlement Policy Framework, and the Dam Safety Plan.
32. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the
date of the Loan Agreement" in the General Conditions.
33. 
"Shouchang" means the town of the same name in Jiande.
- 16 
34. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means an agreement, referred to in Section I.A.2 of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement, between the Project Implementing Entity,
through the respective Project County, and the PIU, pursuant to the terms and
conditions of the Annex to the Schedule to the Project Agreement, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
supplements to said agreement.
35. 
"Training and Workshops" means the costs of training activities under the Project,
based on the Annual Work Plans and Budgets approved in advance by the Bank,
and attributable to seminars, workshops, and domestic and overseas training and
study tours, along with travel and subsistence allowances for training participants,
services of trainers, rental of training facilities, preparation and reproduction of
training materials, and other activities directly related to course preparation and
implementation.
36. 
"Unit Price" means for each Output, the unit price established from time to time
by the Bank in consultation with the Project Implementing Entity, and set forth in
the Project Implementation Plan and each Implementation Agreement.
37. 
"Xin'an River" means the river of the same name running through Zhejiang.
38. 
"Zhejiang Province" or "Zhejiang" means the Borrower's province of the same
name, or any successor thereto.
