OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8871-CG
Loan Agreement
(Support to Enterprise Development and Competitiveness Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8871-CG
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between Republic of Congo
("Borrower") 
and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form part of this Agreement
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of twenty million three
hundred thousand Euros (E20,300,000), as such amount may be converted from
time to time through a Currency Conversion ("Loan"), to assist in financing the
project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Fixed Spread or such rate as may
apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the MPSRI in accordance with the
-2-
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The Borrower shall have established the Steering Committee in a form and
manner acceptable to the Bank.
(b) 
The Borrower, through the MPSRI, shall have adopted Project
Implementation Manual in a form and manner acceptable to the Bank.
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
Signature Date.
4.03. 
For purposes of Section 9.05(b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement (other than those providing for
payment obligations) shall terminate is ten (10) years after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its minister responsible of finance.
5.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower's address is:
Ministry of Finance, Budget and Public Portfolio
Corner of Blvd. Denis Sassou Nguesso and Av. Cardinal Emile Biayenda
B.P. 2083
Brazzaville
Republic of Congo
(b) 
the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile:
242-022-814-145
5.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
-3-
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) 
the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
REPUBLIC OF CON 
VIeA
By : 
r*
,ep tptative
Name:
Title: 
at 
fg ng.g
Date: 
21 
MIN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEV 
OPMENT
By:
Authorize Representative
Name:
Title:
Date:
-4-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to foster MSMEs' competitiveness in the Targeted
Sectors and Targeted Geographic Areas of the Borrower's territory.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Regulatory and Institutional Support to Strengthen the Enabling
Environment for Private Sector Development
Promoting investments in the Targeted Sectors and strengthening the enabling
environment for private sector development through:
(a) 
Investment climate reform and public-private dialogue
(i) 
Provision of support to: (A) identify policy, institutional or other
constraints to investment climate and establish an action plan for
related reforms; and (B) formulate and implement facilitation or
corrective measures to streamline and simplify investment
procedures.
(ii) 
Carrying out institutional, legal and regulatory framework reforms
to strengthen the investment climate, including in the following
areas: (A) business startup; (B) dealing with construction permits;
(C) access to electricity: (D) property transfer; (E) paying taxes;
and (F) trading across borders, through, inter alia, supporting
drafting of reform texts 
and carrying 
out 
stakeholder
consultations.
(iii) 
Supporting the improvement of public-private dialogue as a
participatory 
tool 
for accelerating the 
identification and
implementation of cross-cutting and sector-specific reforms,
through the design or improvement of the efficiency and
performance of the institutional architecture of the public-private
dialogue process.
(b) 
Targeted promotion of domestic and foreign trade investments
Building institutional capacity of institutions involved in facilitating
investments and enterprise development, through: (i) a capacity building
program for the development and implementation of an investment
promotion strategy for API and other selected Borrower agencies; and
-5-
(ii) technical assistance on the implementation of the strategic plan for
ADPME.
(c) 
Transport sector and industrial infrastructure management and
development
Enhancing the management and development of the transport and
industrial infrastructure sectors, through:
(i) 
provision of support to revise and update the legal framework for
industrial infrastructure development;
(ii) 
carrying out an institutional and operational diagnostic of the One
Stop Shop for trans-border trade;
(iii) 
carrying out a feasibility study for the creation of a multimodal
transport observatory;
(iv) 
carrying out a policy and regulatory diagnostic of trade transit
fluidity through the Targeted Geographic Areas;
(v) 
provision of technical assistance to implement the policy and
regulatory improvement recommendations from the diagnostic;
(vi) 
carrying out studies to determine support services required for the
Targeted Geographic Areas; and
(vii) 
provision of capacity 
building for: 
(A) 
the design and
development of the institutional framework for special economic
zones; (B) the development of an integrated investment planning
and asset management strategy; and (C) the carrying out of pre-
feasibility analyses for industrial infrastructure and tourism
development.
Part 2: Direct Support to MSMEs to Enhance the Development and
Competitiveness of Selected Value Chains
Promoting entrepreneurship and enhancing Beneficiaries' development and
competitiveness of selected value chains in the Targeted Sectors through:
(a) 
Entrepreneurship promotion and development
Provision of support to Beneficiaries to improve their products and
services, and to access national and regional markets through, inter alia:
(i) carrying out an awareness and outreach campaign for a business plan
-6-
competition; (ii) provision of capacity building and technical assistance on
the design of business plans for Subprojects; 
(iii) provision of
entrepreneurship promotion and development grants ("EPD Grants") for
the implementation of Subprojects; and (iv) provision of technical
assistance on business sustainability.
(b) 
Support and Development Grants
Provision of support and development grants to Beneficiaries to improve
their operational and technical capabilities 
("SD 
Grants") 
for:
(i) contracting business development services, including capacity
building; (ii) purchase of equipment to be used in production processes
and construction, lease, or rehabilitation of shared infrastructure; and
(iii) providing technical assistance to organize and structure selected
value-chains, associations and cooperatives, and promote commercial
relations.
Part 3: Project Implementation and Coordination
Provision of support for the implementation, coordination and supervision of the
Project through financing of costs relating to the Project's institutional and
governance 
arrangements, 
and 
carrying out 
stakeholder 
outreach 
and
communications, and evaluation and monitoring studies.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall designate, at all times through Project implementation, the
MPSRI to be responsible for prompt and efficient management, implementation
and supervision of activities under the Project, and shall take all necessary action,
including the provision of funding, personnel and other resources to enable said
MPSRI to perform the aforesaid functions.
2. 
The Borrower shall maintain, at all times throughout Project implementation, a
Steering Committee, under terms of reference and composition acceptable to the
Bank, which shall be responsible for providing strategic guidance, inter-ministerial
coordination and oversight of implementation of the Project, as further detailed in
the PIM.
3. 
The Borrower shall maintain within the MPSRI, at all times throughout Project
implementation, a PMU, with resources, functions and staff in adequate numbers
and with experience and qualifications acceptable to the Bank, which shall be
responsible for, inter alia, overall management, monitoring and evaluation and
coordination of the implementation of the activities under the Project, as further
detailed in the PIM.
4. 
Not later than three (3) months after the Effective Date, the Borrower, through the
MPSRI, shall:
(a) 
recruit, based on terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and thereafter
maintain throughout the implementation of the Project, additional staff for
the PMU in order to strengthen its functional and geographic coverage, as
further detailed in the PIM;
(b) 
establish technical working groups, acceptable to the Bank, for the
following areas: business startup, dealing with construction permits,
access to electricity, property transfer, paying taxes, and trading across
borders, to be responsible for identifying and formulating the reforms to
be implemented under Part 1 of the Project;
(c) 
recruit a service provider ("Service Provider 1"), in accordance with
Section 5.13 of the General Conditions, to assist in the carrying out of Part
2(a) of the Project, based on terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank;
(d) 
recruit a service provider ("Service Provider 2"), in accordance with
Section 5.13 of the General Conditions, to assist in the carrying out of Part
2(b) of the Project, based on terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank;
(e) 
to facilitate the implementation of Part 2 of the Project, establish a Grant
Selection Committee, based on terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
to be responsible for the selection of Beneficiaries and Subprojects under
Part 2 of the Project.
5. 
Before the Effective Date, the Borrower, through the MPSRI, shall recruit one
environmental specialist and one social specialist, based on terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, to be part of the PMU.
B. 
Project Implementation Manual
1 .
The Borrower shall adopt and maintain a Project Implementation Manual during
the implementation of the Project, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank,
which shall provide details of arrangements and procedures for the implementation
of the Project, including, inter alia:
(a) 
the detailed description of Project implementation activities, their
sequencing and the prospective timetable;
(b) 
the institutional arrangements for the implementation of the Project;
(c) 
the Project administrative, procurement, environmental and social,
financial management and disbursement requirements and procedures;
(d) 
the plan for the monitoring, evaluation and supervision of the Project;
(e) 
the performance indicators for the Project;
(f) 
the criteria for the selection of the Beneficiaries and the Subprojects;
(g) 
the Subprojects manual, which shall include, inter alia, the terms and
conditions of the Grant Agreements, including the level of counterpart
funding from Beneficiaries;
(h) 
the ESMF, Subproject ESMPs, Subproject ESIAs, IPMP, RPF and RAPs;
(i) 
the administrative, financial and accounting procedures manual; and
(j) 
such other technical and organizational arrangements and procedures as
shall be required for the Project.
-9-
2. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project
Implementation Manual. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing, the
Borrower shall not amend, abrogate, waive or otherwise fail to implement any
provision of the Project Implementation Manual.
3. 
In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the Project Implementation
Manual and the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement
shall prevail.
C. 
EPD Grants and SD Grants
1 .
The Borrower shall, through MPSRI, make EPD Grants and SD Grants to
Beneficiaries for carrying out Subprojects in accordance with eligibility criteria
and procedures acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia, that
Beneficiaries shall:
(a) 
be involved or willing to be involved in the Targeted Sectors;
(b) 
have 
prepared 
a 
satisfactory 
financing 
plan and budget 
and
implementation plan for the proposed Subproject; and
(c) 
have committed to finance a portion of the total estimated cost of the
Subproject out of its own resources, as further detailed in the PIM.
2. 
The Borrower shall make, through MPSRI, each EPD Grant and SD Grant under
a Grant Agreement with the respective Beneficiary on terms and conditions
approved by the Bank, which shall include the following:
(a) 
The EPD Grant and SD Grant may be made in FCFA or Euro up to an
amount equivalent to $250,000, on a non-reimbursable grant basis.
(b) 
The Borrower shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and those
of the Bank, including the right to:
(i) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to use the
proceeds of the EPD Grant and SD Grant, or obtain a refund of all
or any part of the amount of the EPD Grant and SD Grant then
withdrawn, upon the Beneficiary's failure to perform any of its
obligations under the Grant Agreement; and
(ii) 
require each Beneficiary to:
(A) 
carry out its Subproject with due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with sound technical, economic,
financial, managerial, environmental and social standards
- 10 
and practices satisfactory to the Bank, including in
accordance with the provisions of the Safeguard
Instruments and the Anti-Corruption Guidelines;
(B) 
provide, promptly as needed, the resources required for
the implementation of the Subproject;
(C) 
procure the goods and services to be financed out of the
EPD Grant or SD Grant in accordance with the provisions
of this Agreement;
(D) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate in accordance with performance
indicators acceptable to the Bank, the progress of the
Subproject and the achievement of its objectives;
(E) 
(1) maintain a financial management system and prepare
financial statements in accordance with consistently
applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, both
in a manner adequate to reflect its operations, including
the operations, resources and expenditures related to the
Subproject; and (2) at the Bank's or the Borrower's
request, have such financial statements audited by
independent 
auditors 
acceptable to the Bank, 
in
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards
acceptable to the Bank, and promptly furnish the
statements as so audited to the Borrower and the Bank,
and permit the Bank to make such statements as so
audited available to the public, along with the Grant
Agreement;
(F) 
enable the Borrower and the Bank to inspect the
Subproject, its operation and any relevant records and
documents; and
(G) 
prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such
information as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably
request relating to the foregoing.
3. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each
Grant Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and
the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
4. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive any Grant Agreement or any of its provisions.
- 11 
D. 
Annual Work Programs and Budget
1. 
The Borrower shall, not later than December 31 in each calendar year during
Project implementation, prepare and furnish to the Bank for its review and
approval, after approval by the Steering Committee: (a) a program of Project
activities that will be implemented during the following calendar year, , which
includes detailed disbursement forecasts and budgets ("Annual Work Program and
Budget"); and (b) annual reports of the previous calendar year.
2. 
The Borrower shall exchange views with and seek approval from the Bank on each
such proposed annual work program, and shall thereafter carry out such program
of activities for such following year as shall have been agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank.
3. 
The Annual Work Program and Budget may be amended from time to time to
include new activities with the prior and written concurrence of the Bank.
E. 
Safeguards
1 .
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
Safeguard Instruments. To this end, the Borrower shall ensure that the following
actions are taken in a prompt manner acceptable to the Bank:
(a) 
If any Project activity would, pursuant to the ESMF:
(i) 
require the carrying out of an ESIA, the Borrower shall ensure that
the ESIA for such activity is: (A) carried out, in accordance with
the requirements of the ESMF and furnished to the Bank for its
prior review and written approval; and (B) disclosed and consulted
upon, in a form and manner acceptable to the Bank and
(ii) 
require the preparation of an ESMP, the Borrower shall ensure that
such ESMP is: (A) prepared in accordance with the ESMF and
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval; and
(B) disclosed and consulted upon, in a manner acceptable to the
Bank.
(b) 
If any Project activity would, pursuant to the RPF, require the preparation
of a RAP, the Borrower shall ensure that: (i) such RAP is prepared in
accordance with the RPF and furnished to the Bank for its prior review
and written approval; (ii) such RAP is disclosed and consulted upon, in a
manner acceptable to the Bank; and (iii) no civil works under said activity
shall be commenced until all measures required to be taken under said
RAP, including but not limited to prior payment of compensation to all
- 12 
Project affected persons, shall have been taken in a form and manner
acceptable to the Bank.
2. 
In the event that the need for Resettlement arises during Project implementation
due to unforeseen circumstances, the Borrower shall pay from its own resources
any Resettlement compensation required under the Project, including any costs
associated with land acquisition and Resettlement required under the Project.
3. 
Without limitation to excluded expenditures set forth in the PIM, the following
shall not be eligible to be carried out and/or funded under the Project:
(a) 
any activities that would lead to conversion or degradation of critical
natural habitats or their supporting areas;
(b) 
any activities that would lead to conversion or degradation of critical forest
areas, related critical natural habitats;
(c) 
any activities that would involve potential pollution of the Congo River
Basin; and
(d) 
land acquisition.
4. 
Without limitation to its other reporting obligations under this Agreement and
under Section 5.08 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a) 
include in the Project Reports referred to in Section II of this Schedule
adequate information on the implementation of the Safeguard Instruments,
giving details of:
(i) 
measures taken in furtherance of such Safeguard Instruments;
(ii) 
conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the
smooth implementation of such Safeguard Instruments; and
(iii) 
remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such
conditions and to ensure the continued efficient and effective
implementation of such Safeguard Instruments; and
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the
Borrower on such Project Reports.
5. 
The Borrower shall ensure that any terms of reference for any consultancies related
to technical assistance or capacity building under the Project shall be satisfactory
to the Bank following its review thereof and, to that end, such terms of reference
- 13 
shall duly incorporate the requirements of the Safeguards Instruments and that are
satisfactory to the Bank.
6. 
The Borrower shall maintain and publicize the availability of grievance redress
mechanisms to hear and determine fairly and in good faith all complaints raised in
relation to the implementation of the Project by Project affected persons, and take
all measures necessary to implement the determinations made under such
grievance redress mechanisms in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reportin2 and Evaluation
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than one
month after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar semester.
Section III. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and
in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the
Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to:
(a) 
finance Eligible Expenditures;
(b) 
refund the Preparation Advance; and
(c) 
pay: (i) the Front-end Fee; and (ii) each Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar premium; in the amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the
percentage set forth against each Category of the following table:
- 14 
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
eentre ob
Category 
Allocated
(expressed in Euro) 
financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non- 
7,500,000 
100%
consulting services,
consulting services,
Training, and
Operating Costs for
Parts 1 and 3 of the
Project
(2) Goods, works, non- 
3,249,250 
100%
consulting services,
consulting services,
EPD Grants, Training,
and Operating Costs
for Part 2(a) of the
Project
(3) Goods, works, non- 
6,400,000 
100%
consulting services,
consulting services, SD
Grants, Training, and
Operating Costs for
Part 2(b) of the Project
(4) Refund of the 
3,100,000 
Amount payable pursuant
Preparation Advance 
to Section 2.07 (a) of the
General Conditions
(5) Front-end Fee 
50,750 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(6) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar 
Section 4.05 (c) of the
premium 
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
20,300,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the Signature Date;
- 15 
(b) 
under Categories 2 and 3 unless the Grant Selection Committee has been
established in accordance with Section I.A.4(e) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement;
(c) 
under Category 2 unless Service Provider 
1 has been recruited in
accordance with Section I.A.4(c) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; or
(d) 
under Category 3 unless Service Provider 2 has been recruited in
accordance with Section I.A.4(d) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is May 30, 2023.
- 16 
SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share").
Level Principal Repayments
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
On each April 15 and October 15 
3.33%
Beginning April 15, 2025
through April 15, 2039
On October 15, 2039 
3.43%
- 17 
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"ADPME" means Agence pour le ddveloppement des petites et moyennes
entreprises, the Borrower's agency for the development of small- and medium-
sized enterprises, or any successor thereto.
2. 
"Annual Work Program and Budget" means the annual work program and budget
to be prepared by the MPSRI and approved by the Steering Committee, as set forth
in Section I.D. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
3. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
4. 
"API" means Agence pour la Promotion des investissements, the Borrower's
agency for the promotion of investments, or any successor thereto.
5. 
"Beneficiary" means an aspiring, new or existing entrepreneur that is an MSME,
or an association of MSMEs, to whom the Borrower has extended or will extend
an EPD Grant or an SD Grant.
6. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
7. 
"Environmental 
and Social 
Impact Assessment" or "ESIA" means an
environmental and social impact assessment for a Subproject, to be prepared by
the Borrower in accordance with the parameters laid down in the ESMF and
acceptable to the Bank, identifying and assessing the potential environmental and
social impacts of the activities to be undertaken for the activities under the Project,
evaluating alternatives, and designing appropriate mitigation, management, and
monitoring measures, and including the actions needed to implement these
measures.
8. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the
Borrower's Cadre de Gestion Environnementale et Sociale, dated April 8, 2018,
disclosed in-country on April 
10, 2018, and at the Bank's website on
April 11, 2018, setting forth the procedures to be used for the preparation and
approval of a site-specific Environmental and Social Impact Assessment and/or
Environmental and Social Management Plan for any site where there exists
environmental and/or social issues of a type and scale sufficient to trigger the
Bank's safeguard policies, as said framework may be revised from time to time
with the prior approval of the Bank.
- 18 
9. 
"Environmental and Social Management Plan" or "ESMP" means a site-specific
or Subproject environmental and social management plan to be prepared by the
Borrower in accordance with the parameters laid down in the ESMF and
acceptable to the Bank, setting forth a set of mitigation, monitoring, and
institutional measures to be taken during the implementation and operation of the
activities under the Project to eliminate adverse environmental and social impacts,
offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels, and including the actions needed
to implement these measures.
10. 
"EPD Grant" or "Entrepreneurship Promotion and Development Grant" means a
grant to be made by the Borrower, through the MPSRI, out of the proceeds of the
Loan to a Beneficiary for a Subproject under Part 2(a)(iii) of the Project.
11. 
"FCFA" means franc of the Central Africa Economic and Monetary Community,
whose common central bank is the Bank of Central African States.
12. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project
Financing", dated July 14, 2017.
13. 
"Grant Agreement" means an agreement between the Borrower, through the
MPSRI, and a Beneficiary providing for a Grant.
14. 
"Grant Selection Committee" means the committee to be established by the
Borrower in accordance to Section I.A.4(e) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
15. 
"Integrated Pest Management Plan" or "IPMP" means the Borrower's Cadre de
Gestion de Peste et Pesticides (CGPP), dated April 8, 2018, disclosed in-country
on April 10, 2018, and at the Bank's website on April 11, 2018, which:
(i) addresses the concems relating to the Project risks associated with potential
increases in the use of pesticides for agricultural production, intensification and
diversification; (ii) sets forth mitigation and monitoring measures to be taken
during Project implementation and operation to eliminate adverse environmental
and social impacts, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels;
(iii) recommends institutional measures to strengthen national capacities to
implement the mitigation and monitoring measures; and (iv) as part of the
implementation arrangements, identifies national agencies and other partners that
could play a vital role in the success of the Project, as said Plan may be revised
from time to time with the prior approval of the Bank.
16. 
"MPSRI" means the Borrower's Ministry of Planning Statistics and Regional
Integration or any successor thereto.
17. 
"MSME" means micro-, small- and medium-size enterprise as defined under the
Borrower's MSME Promotion and Development Law No. 046-2014.
- 19 
18. 
"One Stop Shop" means Guichet Unique des Operations Transfrontaliers, the
Borrower's entity in charge of processing trans-border trade procedures.
19. 
"Operating Costs" means the reasonable incremental expenses, based on annual
budgets approved by the Bank, incurred by the Borrower on account of Project
implementation, management, and monitoring, including for office space rental,
utilities, and supplies, bank charges, communications, vehicle operation,
maintenance, and insurance, building and equipment maintenance, advertising
expenses, travel and supervision, salaries and statutory contributions of contractual
and temporary staff, but excluding salaries, fees, honoraria, and bonuses of
members of the Borrower's civil service.
20. 
"Preparation Advance" means the advance referred to in Section 2.07 (a) of the
General Conditions, granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter
agreement signed on behalf of the Bank on February 28, 2018, and on behalf of
the Borrower on March 20, 2018.
21. 
"Procurement Regulations" means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF
Borrowers", dated July 2016, revised November 2017.
22. 
"Project Implementation Manual" or "PIM" means the manual to be established
for the Project as referred to in Section 4.0 1(b) of this Agreement.
23. 
"Project Management Unit" or "PMU" means the unit established by the Borrower
within the MPSRI to be in charge of overseeing the day-to-day implementation of
the Project, as further detailed in the PIM.
24. 
"Resettlement" means the impact of an involuntary taking of land under the
Project, which taking causes affected persons to have their: (a) standard of living
adversely affected; or (b) right, title or interest in any house, land (including
premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset
acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (c) access to productive
assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (d) business, occupation,
work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily or
permanently.
25. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" or "RAP" means each site-specific resettlement action
plan prepared and to be prepared pursuant to the RPF pursuant to Section I.E. 1.(b)
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, for a set of activities included under the Project,
giving details of the specific actions, measures and policies required to provide
compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement assistance to any Project affected
persons, along with the procedural and institutional measures needed to implement
such actions, measures and policies; and the term "RAPs" or "Resettlement Action
Plans" means, collectively, all such plans.
- 20 
26. 
"RPF" means the Borrower's resettlement policy framework for the Project, dated
April 8, 2018, and disclosed in-country on April 10, 2018, and at the Bank's
website on April 11, 2018, containing the guidelines, procedures, timetables, and
other specifications for the preparation, adoption, and implementation and
monitoring of a Resettlement Action Plan or Plans, and referred to in Section
I.E.1(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, for provision of compensation and
resettlement assistance for any Project affected persons, as the same may be
amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
27. 
"Safeguards Instruments" means collectively or individually the ESMF, the RPF,
the IPMP, as well as any ESIAs, and RAPs prepared in connection to the Project,
if any.
28. 
"SD Grant" or "Support and Development Grant" means a grant to be made by the
Borrower, through the MPSRI, out of the proceeds of the Loan to a Beneficiary for
a Subproject under Part 2(b) of the Project.
29. 
"Service Provider " means the service provider to be recruited in accordance with
Section I.A.4(c) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
30. 
"Service Provider 2" means the service provider to be recruited in accordance with
Section I.A.4(d) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
31. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the
date of the Loan Agreement" in the General Conditions.
32. 
"Steering Committee" means the committee to be established by the Borrower in
accordance to Section I.A.2 of Schedule to this Agreement.
33. 
"Subprojects" means a specific subproject under Part 2(a) of the Project to be
carried out by a Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a Grant.
34. 
"Targeted Geographic Areas" means areas along and within the Point Noire-
Brazzaville-Ouesso corridor, including the urban and peri-urban agglomerations
of Point Noire and Brazzaville.
35. 
"Targeted Sectors" means, inter alia, agriculture and agribusiness, tourism,
transport, and information and communication technology.
36. 
"Training" means the reasonable costs associated with training and workshop
participation under the Project, based on annual budgets approved by the Bank,
consisting of travel and subsistence costs for training participants, costs associated
with securing the services of trainers, rental of training facilities, preparation and
reproduction of training materials and other costs directly related to course or
workshop preparation and implementation.
