OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
ORIGINAL LOAN NUMBER 8141 - AL
LOAN NUMBER 8841-AL
Loan Agreement
(Additional Financing for the Social Assistance Modernization Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
ORIGINAL LOAN NUMBER 8141 - AL
LOAN NUMBER 8841-AL
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank").
WHEREAS (A) under an agreement, dated June 6, 2012 between the Borrower and the
Bank ("Original Loan Agreement") as amended, the Bank agreed to provide the Borrower with a
loan ("Original Loan") in an amount equivalent to thirty eight million Euro (EUR38,000,000) to
assist in the financing of the Original Project; and
(B) the Borrower has requested the Bank to provide additional financing in support of the
new activities reflected in the Description of the Project in Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE:
the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of eleven million Dollars
(USD11,000,000), ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Fixed Spread subject to Section 3.02(e) of
the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are February 1 and August 1 of each year.
-2-
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower, through MHSP, declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To
this end, the Borrower, through MHSP, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
The NEP and the DAP have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect, materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank in
consultation with Borrower, the ability of the Borrower to achieve the objective of
the Project.
(b) 
The Borrower, through MHSP, has taken any action that would have the effect of
reversing any Disbursement-linked Indicator (DLI) that has been achieved and in
respect of which the related DLI Amount has been disbursed.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that any event
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of sixty
(60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -EFFECTIVENESS
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that the
Project Operations Manual (POM) has been adopted in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE VI- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance and Economy or any successor
thereto.
6.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) the Borrower's address is:
Ministry of Finance and Economy
Bulevardi "Ddshmoret e Kombit", No. 3
Tirane, Albania; and
(b) the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
-3-
Facsimile:
355 42228494 
E-mail:
sekretariamin@finance.gov.al
6.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
E-mail:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
msal im I (a worldbank.org
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
REPUBLIC OF ALBA IA
Byi
Aorized Rept sentative
Name:1!5f--.N AHn9703
Title: m/1 ( ,5gp 
clrqnlvc 
IY/c.3N3r?j
Date: 
5 .G, 
n
INTERN 
I NAL BANK FOR
RECON 
R CTION A 
LOPMENT
By
Authori 
Representative
Name: ZA1' 
ee
Title: 
bAJV K SC o7e 2 c
Date: 
,A/,
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower's implementation of reforms to
improve the equity and efficiency of its social assistance programs.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Strengthening the Implementation and Performance of Social Assistance Programs
Support improved implementation of both the Ndihma Ekonomike Program (NEP) and the
Disability Assistance Program (DAP) through provision of financing for reimbursement of
payments of benefits incurred by the Borrower out its budgetary allocations for the Ndihma
Ekonomike Program ("EEP").
Part 2: Technical Assistance and Investment Activities to Strengthen the Implementation
Capacity for Social Assistance Programs
Support the capacity of the Borrower for implementing improvements in the delivery of
social assistance benefits, including through the following:
(a) 
Revision of the parameters of social assistance programs, including new evaluation
systems for disability assistance based on the social model, reviewing business procedures and
institutional arrangements and design of alternative assistance strategies for people with disabilities
who do not meet the DAP eligibility criteria under the DAP reform
(b) 
Development of an exit strategy for NEP beneficiaries based on innovative models
and international experience.
(c) 
Implementation of a Management Information System (MIS) for the DAP,
including: review of core business processes, institutional roles, and functional requirements to
determine inputs for the design of the MIS; developing quality assurance for MIS development and
implementation; developing a revised sanctions policy and enforcement mechanisms to strengthen
the ability to remedy fraud and errors; and designing tools for the detection of fraud and errors, and
other social inspection mechanisms.
(d) 
Promote transparency in communications and monitoring and evaluation, as well
as, citizen engagement, including through:
(i) 
continuation of carrying out of awareness campaigns 
to ensure
understanding and acceptance of the reforms of Social Assistance
Programs, through, implementation of a comprehensive communications
strategy and specific communications tools tailored to specific themes and
target groups;
(ii) 
strengthening monitoring and evaluation through, 
designing and
implementation of a process for evaluating reforms in Social Assistance
Programs and carrying out of a follow-up disability survey to support the
monitoring of disability assistance reforms;
-6-
(iii) 
strengthening MHSP's monitoring and evaluation capacity for reviewing
business procedures and institutional arrangements, analyzing data and
updating the USF; and
(iv) 
carrying out a beneficiary assessment survey for DAP beneficiaries to
evaluate their level of satisfaction with the DAP reform.
(e) 
Continue to provide Project implementation support through financing of
Operating Costs and consulting services to enhance technical expertise of MHSP in areas including
day-to-day Project management, 
monitoring and evaluation, procurement and financial
management.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation
A. 
Implementation Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower 
shall 
establish and maintain, 
throughout the period of Project
implementation, an inter-ministerial Coordination Working Group, chaired by the Minister
of MHSP and including representatives from MoFE, Institute of Statistics of Albania, High
State Control, MHSP, SSS and National Agency for Information Society, which group
shall be responsible for leading implementation of reforms in social assistance programs
and ensuring coordination of activities under the Project among all relevant agencies and
entities.
2. 
The Borrower through MHSP shall ensure that the Directorate of Health and Social
Protection Development Programs of MHSP shall continue to maintain, with terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank, its staff during Project implementation with expertise in
Project management, monitoring and evaluation, procurement and financial management.
3. 
The Borrower, through MHSP, shall not later than: (a) September 30, 2018, prepare and
furnish to the Bank, a time-bound action plan, prepared in accordance with terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank, for the clear definition of roles and responsibilities for
validating eligibility for benefits under the Social Assistance Programs; and (b) March 31,
2019 implement said plan, taking into account the Bank's comments thereon.
4. 
The Borrower, through MHSP, shall ensure throughout Project implementation that
appropriate budget allocations are made available yearly for Project implementation
purposes.
5. 
The Borrower, through MHSP, shall ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance
with the Project Operations Manual (POM).
B. 
Safeguards.
1. 
The Borrower, through MHSP, shall ensure the rehabilitation of works under DLI18 in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement are carried out in accordance with the EMP.
2. 
The Borrower, through MHSP, shall ensure that all technical assistance under the
Project shall only be undertaken pursuant to terms of reference reviewed and found
satisfactory by the Bank, such terms of reference to ensure that the technical assistance
takes into account, and calls for application of the Bank's Safeguard Policies, including the
Bank's Health and Safety Guidelines.
-8-
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
(a) 
The Borrower, through MHSP, shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than
forty five days after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar semester.
(b) 
The Borrower, through MHSP, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project, and
more particularly, the progress in achieving the DLIs and, to that end, shall include in each
Project Report said information, in such scope and in such detail as shall be determined in
accordance with the Verification Protocol.
Section III. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in
accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible Expenditures; and (b) pay the
Front-end Fee the amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth against
each Category of the following table:
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
DLI Amount 
Expenditures Financed
Category 
(expressed in Dollars) 
(expressed in Dollars) 
(inclusive of taxes)
(1) Eligible 
DLI 17: 3,000,000
Expenditures
Program under 
10,202,500 
DLI 18: 2,500,000 
100%
Part 1 of the 
Project. 
DLI 19: 2,202,500
DLI 20: 2,500,000
(2) Consulting 
770,000 
100%
services and
Operating Costs
under Part 2 of
the Project
(3) Front End Fee 
27,500 
Amount payable
pursuant to Section
2.03 of this Agreement
in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
TOTAL 
11,000,000
-9-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b) 
for payments under Category (1) with respect to each DLI Amount for which a
withdrawal request has been submitted, unless the Borrower has furnished
evidence satisfactory to the Bank that:
(i) 
payments for EEP have been made to eligible beneficiaries by the
Borrower in accordance, and in compliance, with the procedures set forth
in the Borrower's applicable laws and regulations and the Project
Operations Manual; and
(ii) 
the provisions in paragraph 2 below have been satisfied.
2. 
Without limitation to the provision set forth in paragraph 
1 
of Section III.
B of this Schedule, withdrawals by the Borrower under Category (1) shall be made in a
single one-time payments for each DLI and each payment shall be in the amount specified
in the "DLI Amount", subject to submission to the Bank of evidence satisfactory to the
Bank and as defined in the Project Operations Manual that:
(a) 
the inflation indexation for DAP benefits has continued to be implemented since
2010 and each increase in benefits does not exceed such indexation ("Global
Disbursement Condition"); and
(b) 
the DLI set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement (and for which a withdrawal
request has been submitted) has been achieved in compliance with the pertinent
provisions of this Agreement.
3. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing:
(a) 
if the Bank determines that the Global Disbursement Condition has not been met
and as a result of which the Bank has withheld disbursement of Loan proceeds
under Category (1) in respect of any DLI that has been achieved, the Bank, at its
sole discretion, may:
(i) 
at a later date when the Bank is satisfied that the Global Disbursement
Condition has been achieved, authorize withdrawal of the Loan proceeds
so withheld in respect of the DLI that has been achieved; or
(ii) 
at any time, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the amount of the Loan
proceeds so withheld or reallocate said amount to other DLIs.
(b) 
If the Bank determines, at any time, that any portion of the amounts disbursed by
the Borrower under Category (1) was made for reimbursement of expenditures that
are not eligible under the Eligible Expenditures Program or not in compliance with
the provisions of paragraphs 1(b) and 2 of Section III of this Schedule, the Borrower
-10-
shall promptly refund any such amount to the Bank as the Bank shall specify by
notice to the Borrower.
4. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2021.
Section IV: 
Other Undertakings
1. 
The Borrower shall roll-out the implementation of the revised DAP procedures for defining
eligibility for DAP and the related benefits for all administrative units in the Tirana region
by December 31, 2019.
-11-
SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date ("Installment Share").
Level Principal Repayments
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
On each February land August 1
Beginning August 1, 2025 
2.5%
through February 1, 2045
-12-
SCHEDULE 4
Disbursement-linked Indicators and DLI Amount
DLI Amount
Number 
Disbursement-linked Indicator (DLI) 
(expressed in
Dollars)
17 
(a) At least 66 percent of the new applications and re- 
3,000,000
certification requests received in all administrative units in
the Three Pilot Regions, have been processed using the
automated DA; and
(b) the DAP MIS has been expanded to cover second-stage
functions, including integrating data from the revised
eligibility assessment based on the Social Model.
18 
The State Social Services (SSS) regional offices in each of the 
2,500,000
Three Pilot Regions are rehabilitated according to quality
standards provided in the official regulations on accessibility for
disabled persons in public buildings, spaces and services.
19 
An exit strategy and an action plan for NEP beneficiaries are 
2,202,500
developed, consulted, approved and disseminated in accordance
to the Verification Protocol.
20 
At least 55 percent of suspected fraud and error cases in the DAP 
2,500,000
in Tirana are investigated by social inspectors in accordance with
the Verification Protocol.
-13-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption
in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006
and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
3. 
"DLI Amount" means the amount of Loan proceeds set forth in the column entitled "DLI
Amount" in the tables in Section III. A of Schedule 2, and in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
4. 
"Disability Assistance Program" or "DAP" mean the Borrower's program for the payment
of benefits to disabled persons, as defined, and provided for, in various legislations
including the Borrower's following laws: Law No. 8098, dated March 28, 1996 on the
Status of Blind Persons and L a w No. 8626, dated June 22, 2000, on the Status of
Paraplegic Tetraplegic Invalids and other categories of disabled persons, as well as related
Status of Paraplegic Tetraplegic Invalids and other categories of disabled persons, and Law
no. 9355, dated 10.03.2005 "On social assistance and services" as amended and its bylaws,
as well as decisions by the Borrower's Council of Ministers on benefits deriving from the
status of blind persons, and paraplegic and tetraplegic invalids and other categories of
disabled persons.
5. 
"Disbursement-linked Indicators" or "DLIs" mean, collectively, the disbursement linked
targets set forth in the column entitled "Disbursement-linked Indicator (DLI)" in the table
in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and "Disbursement-linked Indicator" and "DLI" mean,
individually, any of such targets.
6. 
"EHS Guidelines" means the General Environmental, Health and Safety Guidelines of the
World Bank Group, dated April 30, 2007, and referenced in OP/BP 4.01, as the same may
be amended from time to time by the World Bank Group, which can be found in
www,iar tc.or/ehseuidelines.
7. 
"Eligible Expenditures Program" or "EEP" means the Borrower's eligible expenditure
program in respect of Part 1 of the Project which consists of expenditures on cash transfers
to beneficiaries under the NEP.
8. 
"Environmental Management Plan" or "EMP" means the environmental management plan
for the rehabilitation works to be conducted under DLI 18, referred to in the table in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, in the SSS regional office of Tirana, dated January 26, 2018,
the environmental management plan for the rehabilitation works to be conducted in the
SSS regional office of Elbasan, dated January 26, 2018, and the environmental
management plan for the rehabilitation works to be conducted in the SSS regional office
of Durres, dated January 26, 2018, all satisfactory to the Bank, and disclosed in country on
January 26, 2018, and at the Bank's website on January 26, 2018, comprising mitigation
measures and check lists prepared and adopted by the Borrower to manage and/or mitigate
identified or potential environmental, health and safety risks and impacts associated with
-14-
said rehabilitation works under DLI 18, as the same may be amended and supplemented
from time to time with the Bank's prior written approval.
9. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing", dated July 14,
2017.
10. 
"Global Disbursement Condition" means the disbursement condition set forth in
paragraph 2(a) of Section III.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement
11. 
"Health and Safety Guidelines" means the General Environmental, Health and Safety
Guidelines of the World Bank Group, dated April 30, 2007, and referenced in OP/BP 4.01,
as the same may be amended from time to time by the World Bank Group, which can be
found in ww w.i c.or/ehsguidelines.
12. 
"M&E" means monitoring and evaluation.
13. 
"MoFE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and Economy or any successor thereto.
14. 
"MHSP" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health and Social Protection or any successor
thereto.
15. 
"MIS" means management information system.
16. 
"Ndihma Ekonomike Program" or "NEP" mean the cash benefit social assistance program
established by the Borrower's Law Number 9355 dated March 10, 2005, as amended
through April 2011.
17. 
"Operating Costs" means reasonable incremental costs, which would not exist absent the
Project incurred by MHSP in connection with the administration associated with the
implementation of Project activities, including office rental, maintenance, office
equipment, furniture, materials and supplies, and communication.
18. 
"Original Loan" means the loan referred to in the Whereas clause (A) in this agreement.
19. 
"Original Loan Agreement" means the agreement referred to in the Whereas clause (A) in
this Agreement.
20. 
"Original Project" means the project described in Schedule 1 of the Original Loan
Agreement.
21. 
"Procurement Regulations" means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF Borrowers", dated
July 2016, revised November 2017.
22. 
"Project Operations Manual" or "POM" means the manual prepared and adopted by the
Borrower, acceptable to the Bank, providing inter alia: the institutional arrangements for
the implementation of the Project; the arrangements for the flow of Project funds, including
protocols and guidelines for Project financial management, preparation of withdrawal
-15-
applications, maintenance of records, auditing, reporting and internal controls; guidelines
for planning and execution of procurement activities under the Project; the protocol for the
production of documentary evidence on compliance with/achievement of the DLIs; and
policies and procedures for monitoring Project activities, as well as complying with the
reporting requirements thereof, as said manual may be amended from time to time with the
agreement of the Bank.
23. 
"Safeguard Policies" means, the operational policies and procedures of the Bank (as the
same may be amended or replaced from time to time by the Bank) set forth in the Bank's
Operational Manual and identified as OP/BP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment), OP/BP
4.04 (Natural Habitats), OP/BP 4.09 (Pest Management), OP/BP 4.10 (Indigenous
Peoples), OP/BP 4.11 
(Physical Cultural Resources), OP/BP 4.12 (Involuntary
Resettlement), OP/BP 4.36 (Forests), and OP/BP 4.37 (Safety of Dams); which can be
found on the Bank's website at www.worldbank.org
24. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the date of the Loan
Agreement" in the General Conditions.
25. 
"Social Model" means a model that incorporates both medical and non-medical assessment
of functional capacities and needs.
26. 
"Social Assistance Programs" means jointly DAP and NEP.
27. 
"SSS" means State Social Services, the Borrower's entities established further to DCM no.
542, dated 27.07.2005 "On the approval of State Social Service" as amended.
28. 
"Three Pilot Regions" means collectively, the Borrower's regions of Durres, Elbasan, and
Tirana.
29. 
"Verification Protocol" means the Borrower's document contained in the POM detailing
the means by which the fulfillment of the DLIs shall be verified under the Project.
30. 
"Unified Scoring Formula" or "USF" means a formula that defines household eligibility
(for NEP) benefits using explicit weights and variables derived from objective correlations
with economic and poverty status.
