OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8817-AL
Loan Agreement
(Additional Financing for the Water Resources and Irrigation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8817-AL
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between REPUBLIC OF
ALBANIA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank").
WHEREAS (A) under an agreement, dated December 14, 2012, between the
Borrower and the Bank ("Original Loan Agreement"), the Bank agreed to provide the
Borrower with a loan ("Original Loan") in an amount equivalent to thirty-one million Euro
(EUR 31.000.000) to assist in the financing of the Water Resources and Irrigation Project,
as described in Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement ("Original Project"); and
(B) 
the Borrower has requested the Bank to provide additional financing in
support of the on-going activities related to Parts 1, 2 and 4 of the Original Project, as fully
described and restated in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project"), by making available to
the Borrower an additional loan ("Additional Loan");
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing to extend
such Additional Loan to the Borrower as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of EUR 23,000,000 (twenty-
three million Euro) ("Loan"), to assist in financing the Project described in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
-2-
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Fixed Spread subject to Section
3.02(e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May land November I in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall carry out the Project, through MARD, in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -EFFECTIVENESS
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that
the Borrower has updated and adopted the Project Operational Manual prepared in
a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance and Economy or any
successor thereto.
5.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower's address is:
Ministry of Finance and Economy
"Ddshmordt e Kombit" Boulevard, No. 3
Tirana, Albania
and
(b) 
the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile:
355 42228494 
sekretariamin@financa.gov.al
-3-
5.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America;
and
(b) 
the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
By
Athonze Representative
Name: APEMW AHMETA
Title: 
MINI- EK
Date: 
16, n 3. 0 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
A-
Title: (OC)N)RY 
#4A)46 
2-
Date: 
/12',11w y /q2o/5'
-4-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to: (i) establish the strategic framework to manage
water resources at the national level and at the level of the Drin-Buna and Semani river
basins; and (ii) improve irrigation service delivery in Selected Irrigation Systems.
The Project consists of the Original Project, whose Parts are restated below for
ease of reference:
Part 1. Dams and Irri2ation and Drainage Systems Rehabilitation
(a) 
Rehabilitation and modernization of selected dams and irrigation and
drainage systems.
(b) 
(i) Preparation and implementation of safeguard instruments and measures
associated with the rehabilitation and modernization activities under Part 1(a) above,
including environmental and social management plans and resettlement action plans, where
applicable; and (ii) strengthening the framework governing safety of agricultural dams,
including capacity strengthening and awareness raising and preparation of plans for
construction supervision 
and quality assurance, 
instrumentation, 
operation 
and
maintenance, and emergency preparedness.
Part 2. Institutional Support for Irrigation and Drainage
(a) 
Definition of responsibilities for operation and maintenance of irrigation and
drainage systems among stakeholders (including ministries, drainage boards, local
governments, water users organizations and private operators) through, inter alia:
(i) 
Preparation of a national irrigation and drainage strategy.
(ii) 
Development 
of cooperation 
arrangements 
(including 
contractual
arrangements) among agencies including through provision of consultants
services.
(iii) 
Development and formalization of irrigation and drainage service delivery
standards.
(iv) 
Development and carrying out of small scale pilots in public private
partnership, 
including outsourcing operations and maintenance of
irrigation and drainage schemes to private operators.
-5-
(b) 
Strengthening the capacity of organizations that provide irrigation and
drainage services and the capacity of stakeholders (including, ministries, drainage boards,
local governments, water user organizations, and private operators), through inter alia,
provision of goods and also training in selected areas, including contract management and
outsourcing, administration, financial management, procurement, water management and
operations, and maintenance.
Part 3. Institutional Support for Integrated Water Resources Management
Establishment of a strategic framework for management of water resources
through, inter alia:
(a) 
Preparation of a national integrated water resource management strategy
including: establishment of a stakeholder forum for cross-sectoral dialogue and decision
making under the aegis of the National Water Council; and strengthening capacities of
institutions responsible for integrated water resource management such as the National
Water Council and its Technical Secretariat, and the River Basin Councils and River Basin
Agencies of the Drin-Buna and Semani basins.
(b) 
Preparation of river basin management plans for the Drin-Buna and
Semani river basins, including identification of structural and non-structural measures to
improve the quality of integrated water resource management and strengthening capacity
to implement said plans through provision of training and goods to River Basin Agencies
and minor rehabilitation of their offices.
(c) 
Establishment of a consolidated water resources database to be used as
basis for national water resources planning and programming.
Part 4. Implementation Support
Provide support for the implementation of the Project, including provision of
technical assistance, training, and goods, and establishment and implementation of a
performance based management information system.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, for purposes of carrying out the Project, the
following organizations, with terms of reference, staffing and other resources
acceptable to the Bank, throughout the period of implementation of the Project:
(a) 
The Project Steering Committee, established pursuant to Section 4.01(a)
of the Original Loan Agreement.
(b) 
The Project Management Team, established within MARD, responsible
for: 
day-to-day 
Project 
management, 
coordination 
with 
Project
stakeholders, the Bank, and co-financiers; monitoring and evaluation of
Project activities: preparation of annual implementation plan and budget,
updating of the procurement planning and PPSD preparation of
procurement documents; preparation of financial and progress reports; and
maintaining of Project document filing.
B. 
Project Operational Manual
1. 
The Borrower, through MARD:
(a) 
shall carry out the Project, and cause the Project to be carried out, in
accordance with the project operational manual that the Bank has
confirmed to be satisfactory ("Project Operational Manual"); and
(b) 
shall not amend, delete, suspend, or waive any part of the Project
Operational Manual, without the prior approval of the Bank.
C. 
Safeguards
Environment Protection and Resettlement
1 .
The Borrower, through MARD, shall carry out, and cause to be carried out, the
following actions: (a) implementation of the Environmental and Social Framework
Document; (b) preparation and furnishing to the Bank for approval of, site-specific
environmental and social management plans (including provisions relating to pest
management) in accordance with the Environmental and Social Framework
Document; and (c) implementation of said site-specific environmental and social
management plans that have been approved by the Bank, all in a manner
-7-
satisfactory to the Bank, and necessary to ensure that the Project is implemented
in accordance with sound environmental practices and standards.
2. 
Without limitation to paragraph I of this Section LC, the Borrower, through
MARD, shall not commence, or permit, tendering for works under the Project until
the Bank has approved the site-specific environmental and social management plan
relating to such works in accordance with the provision of said paragraph 1.
3. 
The Borrower, through MARD, shall:
(a) 
take all necessary actions to minimize, to the extent possible, any
involuntary loss by persons of shelter, productive assets or access to
productive assets or income or means of livelihood, temporarily or
permanently, in carrying out the Project; and
(b) 
whenever implementation of the Project or modification/finalization of
any Project design or works would give rise to Displaced Persons, and
prior to commencement of any works related to such implementation,
modification or finalization, provide to the Bank for its review and
approval, a site-specific resettlement action plan prepared in accordance
with the principles and procedures set forth in the Resettlement Policy
Framework and, thereafter, implement in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank (which includes, unless otherwise agreed with the Bank, payment in
full of compensation to all Displaced Persons) such site-specific
resettlement action plan as shall have been approved by the Bank.
4. 
The Borrower, through MARD, shall:
(a) 
provide, and cause to be provided, to the Bank for its prior concurrence,
any proposed modification or waiver, in whole or part, any of the
following: (i) Environmental and Social Framework Document; (ii) the
site-specific environmental and social management plans prepared and
approved by the Bank in accordance with paragraph I of this Section I.C;
(iii) the 
Resettlement 
Policy 
Framework; 
and 
(iv) site-specific
resettlement action plans prepared and approved by the Bank in
accordance with paragraph 3 of this Section I.C; and
(b) 
put into effect, and cause to be put into effect, only such modification or
waiver as shall have been agreed by the Bank.
-8-
5. 
The Borrower, through MARD, shall:
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable them to monitor and
evaluate, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, the
implementation of: (i) Environmental and Social Safeguard Framework;
(ii) the site-specific environmental and social management plans prepared
and approved by the Bank in accordance with paragraph I of this Section
I.C; (iii) the Resettlement Policy Framework; and (iv) site-specific
resettlement action plans prepared and approved by the Bank in
accordance with paragraph 3 of this Section I.C, and the achievement of
the objectives of each foregoing instrument; and
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to
the Bank the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities with
respect to each of the instruments referred to in sub-paragraph (a) above.
Dam Safety
6. 
To ensure the safety of the dams to be rehabilitated under Part 1 of the Project
and/or included in the Selected Irrigation Systems, the Borrower, through MARD,
shall:
(a) 
maintain the Panel of Dam Safety Experts, with qualifications, resources
and experience, satisfactory to the Bank and which Panel of Dam Safety
Experts is responsible for advising MARD on matters related to safety of
said dams; including reviewing designs for rehabilitation of said dams and
monitoring and reporting on the rehabilitation works of said dams and the
completion of said works;
(b) 
prior to commencement of tendering for works to be carried out under the
Project:
(i) 
prepare, or cause to be prepared, in accordance with a framework
acceptable to the Bank, detailed and time-bound plans, relating to
said dams, 
for: 
(A) construction supervision and quality
assurance; (B) instrumentation; (C) operation and maintenance;
and (D) emergency preparedness; and
(ii) 
finalize said plans or cause them to be finalized, taking into
account the Bank's comments thereon.
Thereafter, implement, or cause to be implemented, such plans that have been
accepted by the Bank; and
(c) 
after completion of construction works at said dams, have independent
qualified professionals carry out periodic safety inspections of said dams.
-9-
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
The Borrower, through MARD, shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not
later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar
semester.
Section III. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and
in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the
Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible
Expenditures; and (b) pay the Front-end Fee in the amount allocated and, if
applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category of the following
table:
Amount of the Additional 
Percentage of
Category 
Loan 
Expenditures Financed
(expressed in Euro) 
(exclusive of taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non- 
22,942,500 
100%
consulting services,
consulting services and
Training under the
Project with the
exception of Part 3
(2) Front End Fee 
57,500 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
TOTAL
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the Signature Date;
-10-
(b) 
until the amounts allocated to Category 1(b) of the table under Article
IV.A. 2 of the Original Loan Agreement shall have been fully disbursed;
and
(c) 
in respect of the following Parts of the Original Project: (i) activities under
Part 3 of the Project; and Part 2(a)(i) of the Project.
2. 
The Closing Date is May 31, 2020.
-11-
SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share").
Level Principal Repayments
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
On each May I and November 1
Beginning May 1, 2025
Through May 1, 2042 
2.78%
On November 1, 2042 
2.70%
-12-
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section III. A of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
3. 
"Displaced Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of the
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts
caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of
shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or
means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to another location;
or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected
areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such persons.
4. 
"Environmental and Social Framework Document" means the Environmental and
Social Framework Document dated October 1, 2017 updated for purposes of this
Additional Loan, which sets out the policies and procedures for the screening of
proposed Project activities (including, rehabilitation and modernization of dams and
irrigation and drainage systems), and for the preparation of site-specific
environment and social management plans therefor during the implementation of
the Project, as such documents may be amended from time to time with the
agreement of the Bank.
5. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project
Financing", dated July 14, 2017.
6. 
"MARD" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
or any successor thereto.
7. 
"National Water Council" means the National Water Council, which is the central
decision making body for water resources management established pursuant to the
Borrower's Law No. 8093 dated March 21, 1996.
8. 
"Original Loan" means the Loan No. 8211-AL provided by the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Original Project (as hereinafter defined).
-13-
9. 
"Original Loan Agreement" means the agreement for the financing of the Original
Project (as hereinafter defined) between the Borrower and the Bank, dated
December 14, 2012.
10. 
"Original Project" means the Project described in the Original Loan Agreement.
11. 
"Panel of Dam Safety Experts" means the panel of five (5) experts in the various
technical fields relevant to the safety aspects of the dams included in the Selected
Irrigation Systems, which panel was established pursuant to terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank, in order to review and advise MARD on matters relative
to dam safety.
12. 
"Procurement Regulations" means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF
Borrowers", dated July 2016.
13. 
"PPSD" means Project Procurement Strategy for Development, the strategy
document for the Project, prepared and adopted by the Borrower on October 24,
2017 describing the carrying out of World Bank-financed projects' procurement.
14. 
"Project Operational Manual" means the manual prepared by the Borrower under
the Original Project and confirmed to be satisfactory to the Bank which has been
updated and adopted by the Borrower pursuant to Section 4.01 of this Agreement.
15. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" means the resettlement policy framework dated
October 9, 2012, which framework sets out the policies and procedures for the
acquisition of land and other assets, resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation
of Displaced Persons, and for the preparation of site-specific resettlement action
plans whenever required during the implementation of the Project, as said
framework may be amended from time to time with the prior concurrence of the
Bank.
16. 
"River Basin Agencies" means the river basin agencies established pursuant to the
Borrower's Law No. 8093 dated March 21, 1996 with responsibilities relating to
water resources, including keeping inventories and drafting of proposals for
investment and management, with focus on reducing pollution and addressing
other problems.
17. 
"River Basin Councils" means the river basin councils established pursuant to the
Borrower's Law No. 8093 dated March 21, 1996 with responsibilities as defined
by the National Water Council.
18. 
"Selected Irrigation Systems" means, inter alia : (a) the following dams and their
associated irrigation and drainage systems: T'Plani, Vranishti 2, Tregtani 2, Tregtani
3, Murriz Thana, Kurjani, Strumi, Zharreza, Slanica, Belesova, Duhanasi,
-14-
Staravecka, Leminoti, and Koshnica; (b) the irrigation and drainage systems of
Bushat and Xarrd; and (c) any other dams and/or irrigation and drainage systems
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
19. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the
date of the Loan Agreement" in the General Conditions.
20. 
"Training" means expenditures to be incurred for the purchase of training
materials, rental of training facilities, per diem and related travel of trainers with
respect to the Project.
