OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8752-IN
Loan Agreement
(Capacity Augmentation of the National Waterway - I (Jal Marg Vikas) Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
0f 11Au44 
2 
2018
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8752-IN
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
2018, between INDIA ("Borrower") and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR R9CONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT
("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I- GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of three hundred seventy-five million
United States Dollars (USD 375,000,000), as such amount may be converted from
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of
Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, however, that the interest payable shall in no event be less than
zero percent (0%) per annum; and provided furthermore, that upon a Conversion
of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by
the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance
remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty
-2-
days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as
provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are January I and July 1 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.09. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure
Limit (as said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (bXii) and (bXiii) of
this Section), the Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of
one half of one percent (0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess
Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for
-3-
each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if any)
shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set
forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during
which the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit,
the product of: (A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the
ratio of all (or, if the Bank so determines, a portion) of the Loan
to the aggregate amount of all (or the equivalent portions) of the
loans made by the Bank to the Borrower and to other borrowers
guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an exposure
surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined from
time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the
Bank's financial exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded,
would subject the Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined
from time to time by the Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total
financial exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by
the Bank.
ARTICLE [I -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Inland Waterways
Authority of India (variously "IWAI" or the "Project Implementing Entity") in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the
Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that the
IWAI Act has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
affect materially and adversely the ability of the IWAI to perform any of its
obligations under the Project as per this Agreement or the Project Agreement.
-4-
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is any of the following officials, acting severally:
the Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary,
or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs of the Borrower's
Ministry of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Secretary
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
North Block
New Delhi 110 001, India
Facsimile:
+91-11-2309 2247
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Facsimile:
+1-202-477-6391
-5-
AGREED at 
, India, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By
Althorized Representative
Name:
Title: -O/Aff
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
$AVA1 
*kAT- 
AWl'*h
Title: 
&geaV A, /OJ&/A
-6-
SCHEDULE ]
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to enhance the transport efficiency and reliability of
the National Waterway - 1, and augment the institutional capacity for the development and
management of the Borrower's inland waterway transport system in an environmentally
sustainable manner.
The Project consists of the following Components:
Component A: Improving the Navigability ofNational Waterway - I
1. 
(a) Carrying out detailed topographic and bathymetric surveys of Project sites; (b)
preparing technical feasibility and detailed engineering studies for Project
investments as well as approximately eighteen (18) passenger terminals to be
constructed and operated by the Participating States; and (c) carrying out social
and environmental impact assessment studies and ancillary mitigation plans
therefor.
2. 
Improving the fairway of National Waterway -
1 by carrying out dredging and
river conservancy works piloting a combination of performance-based assured
depth contracts and input-based dredging contracts.
3. 
Constructing approximately forty (40) kilometers of permanent protections works
for erosion-prone river banks in selected locations.
4. 
Rehabilitating the existing National Waterway - I's navigational lock at Farakka
and building a new parallel navigational lock to allow concurrent two-way
passage.
5. 
Constructing: (a) six (6) multi-modal/inter-modal freight terminals; (b) two (2)
vessel repair and maintenance facilities; and (c) five (5) pairs of roll-on/roll-off
crossings.
6. 
(a) Installing navigational aids/facilities and channel marking to enable night
navigation; (b) developing and implementing app-based systems, improving
communications platforms and expanding user research in order to enhance the
existing river information system throughout the National Waterway 1; (c)
supporting the development of a terminal management system; and (d) providing
navigation support services such as search and rescue, distress response and
casualty incident management, and upgrading vessel and river monitoring systems.
-7-
Component B: Strengthening Institutional Capacities and Improving the Investment
Climate, Vessel Design and Construction Framework.
1 .
Strengthening the institutional capacity of the inland waterway sector agencies
through: (a) undertaking a review of the current IWAI staffing, and the institution's
future development options to ascertain the prospective enhanced capabilities
(staffing/skills needs) required in the areas of logistics, marketing, social
development, grievance redressal, and occupational health safety and environment
management; (b) reviewing and aligning the extant legal framework in respect of
inland waterway transport vessel design, construction, manning, operation,
maintenance, 
insurance 
and 
multi-modal 
transport 
use; 
and 
(c)
establishing/developing a research and development unit/center within IWAI and
enhancing sectoral training institutions.
2. 
Improving overall investment climate in the inland waterway sector through:
(a) undertaking market development studies and preparing business cases by
location, industry and cargo type; and (b) designing and piloting private sector
participation in the construction and operation of transport terminals.
3. 
Enhancing the vessel stock for inland waterways by: (a) improving and
standardizing vessel design with focus on the adoption of low draft and efficient
and clean fuel (LNG) vessels; (b) undertaking public/private stakeholders
consultations to encourage investment in modem vessel technology through the
review of fiscal and other barriers hindering vessel construction; and (c) leasing
approximately ten (10) low draft vessel to kick-start the use of modern vessels in
the National Waterways -
1.
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
IWAI Funding Arrangements
I. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds
of the Loan available to IWAI in accordance with the Borrower's budgetary
procedures and the provisions of the IWAI Act.
2. 
Notwithstanding paragraph I above, in the event that any provision of this
Agreement, including the instructions that the Bank shall have specified by notice
to the Borrower pursuant to Section IV.A. I of this Schedule, were to be found
inconsistent with the Borrower's budgetary arrangements and/or the IWAI Act,
the provisions of this Agreement and related instructions shall prevail.
3. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under its budgetary procedures and the IWAI
Act in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Conuption Guidelines.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
I. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project, and cause
IWAI to prepare Project Reports, in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08
of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank.
Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the period
covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
I. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
-9-
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borower shall
cause IWAI to prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank by no later than
forty five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited
financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have, and cause the IWAI to have, the Project's Financial
Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the
General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period
of one fiscal year of the Borrower and the IWAI, commencing with the fiscal year
in which the first withdrawal was made. The audited Financial Statements for each
such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than nine (9) months after the
end of such period.
Section II. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-coRsulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and M of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, I, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
-10-
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) Limited International
Bidding; (b) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set
forth in the Procurement Plan and agreed by the Bank, (c) Shopping;
(d) Procurement under Framework Agreements in accordance with procedures
which have been found acceptable to the Bank, (e) Direct Contracting; (f) Force
Account; (g) Procurement from UN Agencies; and (h) Procurement under Public
Private Partnership Arrangements in accordance with procedures which have been
found acceptable to the Bank.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; (d) Selection based on Consultants'
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Selection of UN
Agencies; (g) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants; and (h) Single-source
procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of 
ouan Proceeds
A. 
General
1I 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"Disbursement Guidelines for Investment Project Financing" dated February
2017, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
-11-
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) 
financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non-
consulting services,
consultants' services,
Incremental Operating 
370,502,500 
52.63%
Costs and Workshops
& Training for the
Project
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
(2) Front-end Fee 
937,500 
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
Amount payable pursuant
(3) Refund of the 
3,560,000 
to Section 2.07 (a) of the
Preparation Advance 
General Conditions
(4) Interest Rate Cap or 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar 
0 
Section 2.08(c) of this
premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
375,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed USD 75,000,000 may be
made for payments made prior to this date but on or after June 1, 2016, for Eligible
Expenditures under Category (1).
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2023.
-12-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share'. If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each January I and July 1
Beginning July 1, 2024, 
5%
through January 1, 2034
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
-13-
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either. (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
S. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
-14-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
3. 
"Central Water Commission" means the Borrower's Central Water Commission,
established within, and functioning under the aegis of, the Borrower's Ministry of
Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation.
4. 
"CIA" means IWAI's cumulative impact assessment report prepared for the
Project, dated May 2016 (as revised in September 2016) and originally disclosed
in the Bank's operations portal on June 2, 2016 (re-disclosed on October 24, 2016),
detailing the Project scope, its applicable legal framework, Project-related public
consultations, the respective baseline environmental profile and the expected
cumulative impacts in Project-influenced areas, as well as strategic revaluation and
recommendations for Project implementation; as such assessment may be revised,
updated or supplemented from time to time with the prior written concurrence of
the Bank.
5. 
"Consolidated EIA" means the IWAI's consolidated environmental impact
assessment for the Project, dated May 2016 (as revised in September 2016) and
originally disclosed in the Bank's operations portal on June 2, 2016 (and re-
disclosed in October 24, 2016), detailing, inter alia, the Project-related
environmental policy, legal and administrative framework, the expected
environmental impact of Project activities and recommended mitigation measures,
the public consultations and disclosure of environmental documents, the
environmental management plans for dredging, barge movement and civil
interventions identified as of the date of the Consolidated EIA, the environmental
management framework for future 
Project interventions, the applicable
environmental health and safety policies and management systems, the
environmental monitoring plans and grievance redressal mechanism; as such
assessment may be revised, updated or supplemented from time to time with the
prior written concurrence of the Bank.
6. 
"Consolidated SIA" means the IWAI's consolidated social impact assessment cum
social management plan/resettlement action plan for the Project, dated October 25,
2016, disclosed in the Bank's operations portal on October 27, 2016, detailing,
inter alia, the Project's socio-economic profile, area of influence and expected
impacts, the public consultations held, the key laws and regulations applicable, the
-15-
relocation, livelihood enhancement and gender development plans, the applicable
labor, health and safety standards, the Project implementation structure and
institutional arrangements, the grievance redress mechanisms and monitoring and
evaluation plans; as such assessment may be revised, updated or supplemented
from time to time with the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
7. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
8. 
"Displaced Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of the
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts
caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of
shelter (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or
means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to another location;
or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected
areas, resulting in adverse impact on the livelihoods of such persons.
9. 
"EAIEMP" means each of the IWAI's stand-alone environmental assessments
and/or environmental management plans prepared, and/or to be prepared pursuant
to Section LD.2 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement and meeting the
requirements of the Consolidated EIA, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank, for purpose of carrying out (and in relation to) the Project activities, setting
out mitigation, enhancement, monitoring and institutional measures, including
capacity building through training, required to: (i) eliminate adverse environmental
impacts of activities to be implemented under the Project; (ii) offset them, or
reduce them to acceptable levels; (iii) enhance any positive impacts thereof; and
(iv) ensure compliance with Borrower's statutory environmental requirements; as
each such plan may be revised, updated or supplemented from time to time with
the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
10. 
"Farakka" means the revenue area of'the Borrower's State of West Bengal, where
the Farakka barrage is located.
11. 
"Finance & Accounts Manual" means the IWAI's finance and accounts manual
adopted on December 19, 2016, for purposes of the Project; which manual
provides for detailed guidance on segregation of financial management duties,
internal control protocols, accounting and record keeping procedures, funds flow
arrangements, withdrawal applications procedures, reporting and auditing
arrangements applicable to the Project; as such manual may be revised, updated or
supplemented, from time to time, with the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
12. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
-16-
13. 
"Haldia" means the city of Haldia in the Borrower's State of West Bengal.
14. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the reasonable costs of incremental
expenditures incurred by IWAI on account of Project implementation,
management and monitoring, including, inter alia: (i) costs of incremental staff
salaries (other than consultants); (ii) dissemination of Project related information;
(iii) office rental and leasing operation and maintenance of equipment; (iv) office
supplies and utilities; (v) travel and boarding/lodging allowances; (vi) leasing,
operation and maintenance of vehicles; (vii) advertising and communication
expenses; and (viii) bank charges.
15. 
"Inland Vessels Act" means the Borrower's Inland Vessels (Amendment) Act,
2007 (Act No. 35 of 2007), dated September 17, 2007, as amended to the date of
this Agreement.
16. 
"Inland Waterways Authority of India" and the acronym "IWAI" mean the
authority established by the Borrower on October 27, 1986, pursuant to Chapter
111.3 of the IWAI Act, and which is the Project Implementing Entity.
17. 
"IWAI Act" means the Borrower's Inland Water Authority of India Act, 1985 (Act
No. 82 of 1985), dated December 30, 1985, as amended to the date of this
Agreement.
18. 
"Kolkata" means the city of Kolkata in the Borrower's State of West Bengal.
19. 
"Ministry of Shipping" means the Borrower's Ministry of Shipping or any
successor thereto.
20. 
"National Waterway -
1" means the Allahabad-Haldia stretch of the Ganga-
Bhagirathi-Hoogly river system in the territory of the Borrower, declared a
national waterway pursuant to the Borrower's National Waterway (Allahabad-
Haldia Stretch of the Ganga-Bhagirathi-Hoogly) Act 1982 (Act No. 49 of 1982),
dated October 18, 1982. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for purposes of this
Project, the "National Waterway - I" will include the stretch from Varanasi to
Haldia (i.e. excluding the upstream stretch from Allahabad to Varanasi).
21. 
"NINI' means the National Inland Navigation Institute established in Patna by the
IWAI, on February 2004, for purposes of developing the human resources for the
inland water transport sector, including the development, maintenance and
management of waterways.
22. 
"Participating States" means the Borrower's States of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar,
Jharkhand and West Bengal.
23. 
"Patna" means the city of Patna in the Borrower's State of Bihar.
-17-
24. 
"PIUs" means the IWAI's project implementation units referred to in Section
LA. (c) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
25. 
"PMU" means the IWAI's project management unit referred to in Section IA.1(b)
of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
26. 
"POC" means the IWAI's project oversight committee referred to in Section
1.A.1(a) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
27. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
28. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
March 15, 2017 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines
and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
29. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means the IWAI.
30. 
"RAP" means each of the IWAI's resettlement action plans, whether stand-alone
or incorporated as part of the Consolidated SIA, prepared, and/or to be prepared
pursuant to Section LD.2 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement and meeting
the requirements of the RPF, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank,
identifying Displaced Persons on account of implementation of Project activities,
and setting forth the terms and conditions for providing them with resettlement
assistance and/or compensation, including the protocols for consultation, the
processing of complaints and grievance redressal, monitoring and reporting
requirements, and the Displaced Persons' entitlement plans; as such plans may be
revised, updated or supplemented, from time to time, with the prior written
concurrence of the Bank.
31. 
"RPF" means the IWAI's resettlement policy framework for the Project, dated
October 25, 2016, and disclosed at the Bank's operations portal on October 26,
2016, setting for the guiding principles, acceptable standards and procedures for:
(a) the screening of Project activities and the identification, assessment and
mitigation of any potential Project-related social impact, as well as the entitlement
schedule for any Displaced Persons; (b) the guidelines for land acquisition
processes as well as the monitoring and reporting requirements in relation thereto;
(c) the mechanism for processing of complaints and redressing grievances; and (d)
the preparation and implementation of prescribed resettlement measures identified
pursuant to Section LD.2 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement; as such
framework may be revised, updated or supplemented from time to time with the
prior written concurrence of the Bank.
-18-
32. 
"Safeguard 
Documents" means, collectively, the Consolidated 
EIA, the
Consolidated SIA, the CIA, the RPF, the RAPs, SIAs, and the EAsIEMPs.
33. 
"Sahibganj" means the town of Sahibganj in the Borrower's State of Iharkhand.
34. 
"SIA" means each of the IWAI's social impact assessment prepared, and/or to be
prepared pursuant to Section I.D.2 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement and
meeting the requirements of the RPF, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank, identifying Displaced Persons on account of implementation of Project
activities in accordance with the provisions protocols and procedures set forth in
the RPF, as such assessments may be revised, updated or supplemented from time
to time with the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
35. 
"TSSC" means the technical support services consultants referred to in Section
I.A. 1(d) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
36. 
"Varanasi" means the city of Varanasi in the Borrower's State of Uttar Pradesh.
37. 
"Workshops and Training" means the reasonable cost of trainings, seminars,
workshops, conferences and study tours, conducted in the territory of the Borrower
and/or overseas, for the benefit of IWAI staff, including: (a) the fees of training
institutions and courses; (b) domestic and international travel costs, lodging costs,
and subsistence/per diem allowances both for trainers and trainees; (c) the rental
of training facilities; and (d) preparation, purchase or reproduction of training
materials.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. 
The
-19-
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
'Loan Payment' means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), the Commitment Charge, any
surcharge, any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early
termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any
premium payable upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
