' ' 
OFFICIAL 
DOCUMENTS 
LOAN NUMBER 8771-LB 
CFF TF NUMBER TFOA5424 
Loan Agreement 
(Lebanon Health Resilience Project) 
between 
THE LEBANESE REPUBLIC 
and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
Dated\{~ q 
, 2018 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
' ' 
-2-
LOAN AGREEMENT 
LOAN NUMBER 8771-LB 
CFF TF NUMBER TFOA5424 
AGREEMENT dated \-f OJ(( h.. 9 , 2018, between THE LEBANESE REPUBLIC 
("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
("Bank"). 
WHEREAS (A) following an international effort to provide development support to countries most 
affected by refugees in the Middle East region; and having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project aimed, in part, at providing quality healthcare services to Uninsured Lebanese, Vulnerable 
Lebanese and Eligible Beneficiaries affected by the Syrian crisis, as further described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, the Borrower has requested the Bank to extend a loan to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B) funding from the Concessional Financing Facility was received by the Bank for purposes of 
providing concessionality to this Agreement; 
(C) under the terms of a Financial Procedures Arrangement with the Trustee of the Concessional 
Financing Facility dated August 10, 2016, the Bank has agreed to provide additional funds to the Borrower 
(the Concessional Portion of the Loan as hereinafter defined) as part of an integrated lending operation 
under the terms of this Agreement; and 
NOW THEREFORE, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an integral part 
of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II -
LOAN 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to extend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in 
this Agreement, a Loan on concessional terms in the amount of one hundred twenty million United 
States Dollars (US$120,000,000) to assist in financing the Project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement ("Project") consisting of the following: 
(a) 
a non-concessional portion of the Loan in an amount of ninety-five million eight hundred 
thousand United States Dollars (US$95,800,000), as such amount may be converted from 
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 
2.08 of this Agreement ("Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan"); and 
(b) 
a concessional portion of the Loan in an amount of twenty-four million two hundred 
thousand United States Dollars (US$24,200,000) ("Concessional Portion of the Loan"). 
-3-
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement. All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into 
an account specified by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent (0.25%) 
of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan. 
2.04. 
(a) 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion 
of the Loan. 
(b) 
The Commitment Charge shall not be applied to the Concessional Portion of the Loan. 
2.05 
(a) 
The interest payable by the Borrower on the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan for 
each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency 
plus the Fixed Spread; provided, however, that the interest payable shall in no event be less 
than zero percent (0%) per annum; and provided furthermore that, upon a Conversion of 
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be 
determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Balance of 
the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead 
be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e} of the General Conditions. 
(b) 
The Concessional Portion of the Loan shall be made on a grant basis. 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 1 and September 1 in each year. 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance 
with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the terms of 
the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Non-
Concessional Portion of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; 
(ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a 
Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a 
Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based 
on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal 
amount of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a 
Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and 
(iii) the setting oflimits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan withdrawn 
and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate. 
-4-
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted by the 
Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General Conditions, and shall 
be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and 
of the Conversion Guidelines. 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar for 
which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Non-
Concessional Portion of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable 
in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated 
from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end, the Borrower 
shall, through the MoPH, carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of 
the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as the 
Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried 
out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty (180) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
Riad El-Solh Square 
Beirut 
Lebanese Republic 
Facsimile: 
+961 1 642 762 
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is: 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Cable address: 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 
Telex: 
248423(MCI) or 
64145(MCI) 
-5-
Facsimile: 
1-202-477-6391 
AGREED at Beirut, Lebanese Republic, as of the day and year first above written. 
THE LEBANESE REPUBLIC 
By 
Authorized Representative 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
By 
~- A~R9:t;ve 
Name: ~ 
ca:j \<. W'.Y\cuC:11°'-
ntle: C1u.nt, j ') i 1 f , b V 
-6-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description 
The objective of the Project is to increase access to quality healthcare services to poor Lebanese 
and displaced Syrians in Lebanon. 
The Project consists of the following activities: 
Part 1. Scaling up the Scope and Capacity of the PHC UHC Program 
1.1. 
Scaling up provision of Capitation Payments to Participating PHCCs for delivery of output-based 
Packages of Essential Health Services to Vulnerable Lebanese, as elaborated in the respective 
Health Service Provider Agreements. 
1.2. 
Strengthening the capacities of Participating PHCCs for provision of quality healthcare services, 
through: (i) expanding the scope of said output-based Packages of Essential Health Services to 
include, inter alia, core preventive and curative healthcare services in areas such as reproductive 
health, non-communicable disease case management, healthcare for the elderly, general wellness, 
mental health and provision of medication to patients; (ii) improving the technical, managerial and 
physical capacities of Participating PHCCs for delivery of said output-based Packages of Essential 
Health Services; (iii) supporting communications and outreach to targeted communities to facilitate 
enrolment and/or access to said output-based Packages of Essential Health Services; and 
(iv) strengthening the accreditation program to, inter alia, include all Participating PHCCs. 
Part 2. Provision of Health Care Services in Public Hospitals 
2.1. 
Provision of Special Capitation Payments to Participating Public Hospitals for delivery of medical 
and paramedical services to Uninsured Lebanese and delivery of emergency healthcare services to 
Eligible Beneficiaries, as elaborated in the respective Health Service Provider Agreements. 
2.2. 
Strengthening the technical and organizational capacities of Participating Public Hospitals for the 
provision of quality healthcare services, through: (a) provision of training to clinical and non-
clinical staff; and (b) strengthening the health information management system targeting 
Participating Public Hospitals, Participating PHCCs and the MoPH. 
Part 3. Strengthening Project Management and Monitoring 
3.1. 
Strengthening the capacities of the MoPH and Project Management Unit for implementation, 
coordination and management of activities under the Project (including, inter alia, procurement, 
financial management, technical and financial audits, environmental and social safeguards, 
grievance redress mechanisms, monitoring and evaluation, health information management, 
supervision and reporting aspects), all through the provision of consulting services, non-consulting 
services, Training and Workshops, Operating Costs, and acquisition of goods for the purpose. 
3.2. 
Carrying out of a comprehensive assessment of hospitals focusing on accuracy of hospital case 
mix, use of hospitalization data in medical auditing, development of performance indicators 
incorporating actual patient outcomes, resource allocation decisions, and institutional/organization 
structures, so as to identify gaps and make recommendations for improvement. 
-7-
3.3. 
Carrying out of an independent evaluation of Project activities and results. 
-8-
SCHEDULE2 
Section I. 
Project Execution 
Implementation Arrangements 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
MoPH 
(a) 
The Borrower shall designate, at all times during the implementation of the Project, the MoPH to 
be responsible for prompt and efficient oversight and coordination of the implementation of 
activities under the Project, and shall take all actions including the provision of funding, personnel 
and other resources necessary to enable the MoPH to perform its functions. 
(b) 
To facilitate the day-to-day implementation of Project activities, the Borrower shall, through the 
MoPH, maintain at all times during the implementation of the Project within MoPH, the Project 
Management Unit ("PMU") with a composition, mandate, staffing and other resources satisfactory 
to the Bank, all in accordance with the provisions of the Project Operations Manual. 
2. 
Steering Committee 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1 immediately above, the Borrower shall, 
through the MoPH, not later than 1 ( one ) month after the Effective Date, establish and thereafter 
maintain at all times during the implementation of the Project, a Steering Committee with a 
composition, mandate, terms of reference and resources satisfactory to the Bank, to be responsible 
for, inter alia: (i) providing strategic and policy guidance on matters relating to the Project; and 
(ii) coordinating inter-agency policies and roles, all in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Operations Manual. 
B. 
Other Arrangements 
1. 
Project Operations Manual 
(a) 
To facilitate the implementation of the Project, the Borrower, through the MoPH, shall not later 
than four (4) months after the Effective Date, prepare and adopt a Project Operations Manual in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank ("POM"), and such POM shall include, inter alia, the 
description of: 
{i) 
detailed institutional arrangements; 
(ii) 
procurement arrangements; 
(iii) 
detailed financial management and disbursement arrangements and audit procedures; 
(iv) 
reporting, monitoring and evaluation arrangements; 
(v) 
eligibility criteria and procedures for the selection of Participating PHCCs and 
Participating Public Hospitals; 
-9-
(vi) 
eligibility criteria for beneficiaries of the Packages of Essential Health Services, and 
beneficiaries of medical and paramedical services and emergency health care services; and 
(vii) 
templates of the relevant Health Service Provider Agreements. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall ensure that the MoPH carries out the Project in accordance with the POM; 
provided, however, that in case of any conflict between the provisions of the POM and the 
provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 
( c) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the MoPH shall not assign, 
amend, abrogate or waive the POM or any provision thereof if, in the opinion of the Bank, such 
assignment, amendment, abrogation or waiver will materially and adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project. Any amendments to the said POM shall be made with the prior 
agreement of the Bank. 
2. 
Health Service Provider Agreements 
(a) 
The Borrower shall, through the MoPH, ensure that no Participating PHCC shall be eligible for a 
Capitation Payment, unless and until MoPH and the Participating PHCC have entered into a Health 
Service Provider Agreement in form and substance acceptable to the Bank, setting forth, inter alia: 
responsibilities and obligations of each party; a description of each eligible Package of Essential 
Health Services to be provided by the Participating PHCC and number of beneficiaries to be 
targeted; disbursement requirements and procedures; payment modalities; verification modalities; 
and other relevant clinical, financial and administrative data required pursuant to the Borrower's 
health information system; and 
(b) 
The Borrower shall, through the MoPH, ensure that no Participating Public Hospital shall be 
eligible for a Special Capitation Payment, unless and until MoPH and the Participating Public 
Hospital have entered into Health Service Provider Agreement in form and substance acceptable to 
the Bank, setting forth, inter a/ia: responsibilities and obligations of each party; services to be 
provided by the Participating Public Hospital; disbursement requirements and procedures; payment 
modalities; and clinical and financial reports to be provided by the Participating Public Hospital to 
support the fulfillment of disbursement requirements (collectively, "Health Service Provider 
Agreements"). 
3. 
Verification of Special Capitation Payments under Part 2.1 of the Project 
(a) 
Third Party Agents 
The Borrower shall, not later than ( 1) one month after the Effective Date, cause the MoPH to engage 
in accordance with the provisions of Section III of this Schedule 2, Third Party Agents to conduct 
independent verifications of admissions of Uninsured Lebanese and Eligible Beneficiaries to 
Participating Public Hospitals under Part 2.1 of the Project, prior to the delivery of services under 
said Part, all in accordance with the provisions of the POM. 
(b) 
Mo PH Medical Auditors 
Without limitation upon the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) immediately above, the Borrower shall 
designate MoPH Medical Auditors to conduct internal verifications of the delivery of medical and 
paramedical services to Uninsured Lebanese and delivery of emergency healthcare services to 
-10-
Eligible Beneficiaries by Participating Public Hospitals under Part 2.1 of the Project on a sample 
basis, prior to the provision of Special Capitation Payments, all in accordance with the provisions 
ofthePOM. 
C. 
Anti-Corruption 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the 
Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
D. 
Safeguards 
1. 
The Borrower, through the MoPH, shall not later than (3) three months after the Effective date, 
prepare in form and substance acceptable to the Bank, and thereafter adopt an Environmental and 
Social Management Framework ("ESMF") detailing: (a) the guidelines, procedures and timetables 
for the carrying out of environmental and social assessments under the Project; (b) the measures to 
be taken during the implementation of the Project to eliminate or offset adverse environmental and 
social impacts, or to reduce them to acceptable levels; and (c) the actions needed to implement 
these measures, including monitoring and institutional strengthening. To this end, the Borrower 
shall ensure that the following actions are taken in a manner acceptable to the Bank: if any Project 
activity would, pursuant to the ESMF: require the carrying out of a specific Safeguard Instrument 
(such as Environmental and Social Impact Assessment ("ESIA"), Environmental and Social 
Management Plan ("ESMP"), and a medical waste management plan).The Borrower shall ensure 
that the appropriate instrument for such activity is: (i) carried out, in accordance with the 
requirements of the ESMF and furnished to the Bank for review and approval; and (ii) disclosed 
in-country as required by the ESMF and approved by the Bank ("Safeguard Instruments"). 
2. 
The Borrower shall, through the MoPH, ensure that: (a) the Project is carried out in accordance 
with the provisions of the Safeguards Instruments, and shall not amend or waive, or permit to be 
amended or waived, any Safeguard Instrument, or any provision of any one thereof, without the 
prior written approval of the Bank; and (b) all measures for carrying out the recommendations of 
the Safeguard Instruments are taken in a timely manner. 
3. 
Without limitation upon its other reporting obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
through the MoPH: (a) include in the Project Reports referred to in Section II.A of this Schedule 2, 
adequate information on monitoring the measures defined in the Safeguard Instruments, giving 
details of: (i) measures taken in furtherance of such Safeguard Instruments; (ii) conditions, if any, 
which interfere or threaten to interfere with the smooth implementation of such Safeguard 
Instruments; and (iii) remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such conditions 
and to ensure the continued efficient and effective implementation of such Safeguard Instruments; 
and (b) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower on such 
reports. 
4. 
Each such report referred to in paragraph 3 (a) immediately above shall be furnished to the Bank 
not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the six (6) month period covered by such report. 
-11-
Section U. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
A. 
Project Reports 
The Borrower shall, through the MoPH, monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions 
and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover a six-month 
period, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the 
period covered by such report. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Borrower shall, through the MoPH, maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
2. 
The Borrower shall, through the MoPH, prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five 
(45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project 
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
3. 
The Borrower shall, through the MoPH, have the Project's Financial Statements audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one Fiscal Year of the Borrower. The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) 
months after the end of such period. 
Technical Audit 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Section 11.B, the Borrower shall, 
through the MoPH, at the request of the Bank: (a) carry out under terms of reference satisfactory 
to the Bank, a technical audit of Capitation Payments and Special Capitation Payments under Parts 
1.1 and 2.1 of the Project, respectively, and furnish a report on said technical audit to the Bank, not 
later than six (6) months after the end of the period to which said technical audit relates; (b) ensure 
that the findings of said technical audit are taken into account in the audited Financial Statements 
for the Fiscal Year to which said technical audit relates (as applicable). To this end, the Borrower 
shall appoint an independent audit firm, in accordance with the provisions of Section III of this 
Schedule 2, to carry out said technical audit. 
C. 
Other Financial Management Arrangements 
1. 
To facilitate the efficient management of the financial management system, the Borrower shall, 
through MoF, channel the proceeds of the Loan from the loans treasury account in the Loan 
Currency at Banque du Liban to the Designated Account of the Project by a letter signed by both 
the Head of Treasury and the Central Treasury Cashier of the MoF. Upon each withdrawal of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Borrower shall, through MoF, open Additional Budget Lines (budget 
classification number 1-12-1-734-14-1-3, 1-12-1-734-16-9-1, 1-12-1-732-16-7-l) equivalent to the 
amount of such withdrawal of the Loan proceeds, provided that the total amount allocated to all 
such budget lines during the life of the Project up until the disbursement deadline date (as defined 
in the Disbursement Guidelines and the additional instructions of the Bank referred to in Section 
IV.A.I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement) shall not exceed the amount of the Loan. For the purposes 
-12-
of this Loan, said Additional Budget Lines could be opened in the budget of a specific year up until 
January 31 of the following year and those contracted or not contracted are carried forward per the 
request of the MoPH. 
2. 
For the purposes of the Loan, transfer of funds between different budget lines shall be carried out 
and approved by both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Public Health. 
3. 
The Borrower shall, through MoF, open an account for the Loan in its Chart of Accounts to record 
all disbursement amounts that are channeled to the Designated Account mentioned in Paragraph 1 
above. The said account shall be settled periodically based on expenditures statements in the Loan 
currency signed by the Minister of Public Health and provided to MoF before end of each fiscal 
year for expenditures incurred up to October 31 of said Fiscal Year, and before end of January 31 
of the following year for expenditures incurred in November and December for the previous Fiscal 
Year 
Section III. 
Procurement 
All goods, works, non-consulting services and consulting services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements 
set forth or referred to in the Procurement Regulations and the provisions of the Procurement Plan. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
A. 
General 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of Article 
II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower (including the "Disbursement Guidelines for Investment Project 
Financing" dated February 2017, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable 
to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in 
the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category, 
and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
Category 
Amount of the 
Amount of the 
Percentage of 
Non-Concessional 
Concessional 
Expenditures to be 
Portion of the 
Portion of the 
financed 
Loan 
Loan 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
Allocated 
Allocated 
(expressed in 
( expressed in 
USD) 
USD) 
(1) Goods, non-consulting 
23,045,500 
5,882,000 
100% 
services, consulting 
services, Training and 
Workshops, and Operating 
Costs for Parts 1.2, 2.2 and 
3 of the Project. 
-13-
(2) Capitation Payments under 
46,170,000 
11,663,000 
100% 
Part 1.1 of the Project. 
(3) Special Capitation 
26,345,000 
6,655,000 
100% 
Payments under Part 2.1 of 
the Project. 
(4) Front-end Fee to be paid 
239,500 
0 
Amount payable 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of 
pursuant to Section 
this Agreement in 
2.03 ohhis 
accordance with Section 
Agreement in 
2.05 (b) of the General 
accordance with 
Conditions (renumbered as 
Section 2.07 (b) of 
such pursuant to 
the General 
paragraphs 3 and 5 of 
Conditions 
Section II of the Appendix 
to this Agreement and 
relating to Capitalizing 
Front-end Fee and 
Interest) 
(5) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
0 
Amount due 
Interest Rate Collar 
pursuant to Section 
premium to be paid 
2.08(c) of this 
pursuant to Section 2.08(c) 
Agreement 
of this Agreement in 
accordance with Section 
4.05 of the General 
Conditions 
TOT AL AMOUNT 
95.800.000 
24.200,000 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made: 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed 3,600,000 United States Dollars may be made for 
payments made prior to this date but on or after September 1 · 2016, for Eligible 
Expenditures under Category (3); or 
(b) 
from the Loan Account unless each withdrawal is made on a pari passu basis and at a 
79.83%:20.17% ratio between the amount of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan 
allocated and the amount of the Concessional Portion of the Loan allocated. 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2023. 
I. 
2. 
3. 
-14-
SCHEDULE3 
Amortization Schedule 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Non-Concessional Portion of the 
Loan and the percentage of the total principal amount of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan 
payable on each Principal Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Non-
Concessional Portion of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, 
the principal amount of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn 
Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan as of the first Principal Payment Date; by 
(b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, 
as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentaee) 
On each March 1 and September 1 
Beginning September 1, 2023 
2.94% 
through September 1, 2039 
On March 1, 2040 
2.98% 
If the proceeds of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan 
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan have been 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn 
Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan as of such date in accordance with 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on each 
Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts determined by 
the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator 
of which is the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share") and the 
denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal 
Payment Dates falling on or after such date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as 
necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a 
Currency Conversion applies. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar 
months prior to any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and 
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and 
shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal 
Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
-15-
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph ( a) of this paragraph, if at any time the 
Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on or after the 
respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer 
apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the 
Loan to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately 
prior to the Conversion by either: (a) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the 
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the 
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan is denominated in more 
than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount 
denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each 
such amount. 
-16-
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
"Additional Budget Line" means any budget line opened after publication of the Borrower's 
Budget, as an addition to the initial budget lines established under said Budget, all in accordance 
with the Public Accountancy Law number 14969 of the year 1963 and other relevant national 
legislations. 
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and 
Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated 
October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016. 
3. 
"Capitation Payment" means a financial transfer from the Borrower to a Participating PHCC under 
Part 1.1 of the Project for the delivery of Packages of Essential Health Services, pursuant to the 
terms and conditions of a Health Service Provider Agreement, and "Capitation Payments" means, 
collectively, two or more such payments. 
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
5. 
"Chart of Accounts" means the Borrower's chart of accounts established and operating pursuant to 
Lebanese legislation. 
6. 
"Concessional Financing Facility" and "CFF" each means the financing facility established with a 
focus on providing concessional financing to middle income countries most affected by the 
presence oflarge numbers ofrefugees, with an initial focus on the Syrian refugee crisis as it impacts 
Jordan and Lebanon, and referred to in the Preamble to this Agreement. 
7. 
"Concessional Portion of the Loan" means the amount of the Loan referred to in Section 2.0l(b) of 
this Agreement; which has been contributed for the Project from the CFF on grant basis. 
8. 
"Eligible Beneficiaries" means patients who have met the eligibility criteria set out in the POM and 
are beneficiaries of emergency healthcare services under Part 2.1 of the Project. 
9. 
"Environmental and Social Impact Assessment" or "ESIA" means, with respect to each Project 
activity pursuant to which the ESMF requires an environmental and social impact assessment, such 
assessment carried out in accordance with the ESMF and the provisions of Section I.D of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement. 
10. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the document to be 
prepared, adopted and disclosed by the Borrower, pursuant to the provisions of Section I.D of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, setting forth the modalities for site-specific environmental screening 
and procedures/actions for the preparation and implementation of ESIAs and ESMPs under the 
Project, the set of mitigation, monitoring, and institutional measures and procedures required in 
order to eliminate adverse environmental and social impacts, offset them, or reduce them to 
acceptable levels, as well as actions needed to implement said measures, as the same may be 
amended from time to time with the Bank's prior written approval. 
11. 
"Environmental and Social Management Plan" or "ESMP" means, for a given Project activity, a 
site-specific environmental and social management plan for said activity to be prepared pursuant 
-17-
to the ESMF, and giving details of specific actions and setting forth the mitigating, monitoring and 
institutional measures to be taken during the implementation and operation of the Project to offset 
or reduce adverse environmental impacts to levels acceptable to the Bank, including the budget and 
cost estimates, and sources of funding, along with the institutional and procedural measures needed 
to implement such actions, measures and policies and the parties responsible for executing works 
and monitoring of construction and operational impact, as the said document may be amended 
and/or supplemented from time to time with the prior written concurrence of the Bank and subject 
to same initial consultation and disclosure requirements carried out for the ESMF. 
12. 
"Financial Procedures Arrangement" means the arrangement between the Bank and the CFF 
referred to in the Preamble to this Agreement. 
13. 
"Fiscal Year" or "FY" means the Recipient's twelve-month period starting January I and ending 
on December 31. 
14. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development General 
Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
15. 
"Health Service Provider Agreement" means any services contract to be concluded between the 
Borrower and: (a) a Participating PHCC for delivery of Packages of Essential Health Services to 
Vulnerable Lebanese under Part 1.1 of the Project; or (b) a Participating Public Hospital for delivery 
of medical and paramedical services to Vulnerable Lebanese and/or delivery of emergency 
healthcare services to Eligible Beneficiaries under Part 2.1 of the Project, all pursuant to the 
provisions of Section I.B.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and "Health Service Provider 
Agreements" means, collectively, two or more such services contracts. 
16. 
"Loan" means the aggregate of the Concessional Portion of the Loan and the Non-Concessional 
Portion of the Loan as set forth in Section 2.01 of this Agreement. 
17. 
"Mo PH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Public Health, and any successor thereto. 
18. 
"MoPH Medical Auditors" means the auditors designated by the MoPH to carry out the functions 
referred to in Section I.B.3(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
19. 
"Minister of Finance" means the Borrower's minister in charge of finance at the time. 
20. 
"Operating Cost" means incremental costs incurred on account of the Project coordination, 
implementation and monitoring, including expenditures for vehicle operation and maintenance, 
audit fees, legal fees (as required), maintenance of equipment, office supplies and consumables, 
utilities, communication, translation and interpretation, bank charges, Project-related travel, 
including per diem and accommodation, and other miscellaneous costs directly associated with the 
Project implementation and salaries of Project staff but excluding salaries of the Borrower's civil 
servants, meeting allowances, other sitting allowances, salary top ups and all honoraria. 
21. 
"Package of Essential Health Services" means a specific package of basic health services, provided 
pursuant to a Health Service Provider Agreement and as further elaborated in the POM, to be 
delivered by a Participating PHCC under Part 1.1 of the Project, all in accordance with the 
-18-
provisions of the POM, and "Packages of Essential Health Services" means, collectively, two or 
more such specific packages of basic health services. 
22. 
"Participating PHCC" means an eligible provider of a Package of Essential Health Services 
pursuant to eligibility terms provided under the POM, and to which or for whose benefit a 
Capitation Payment is made or proposed to be made pursuant to the provisions of a Health Service 
Provider Agreement; and "Participating PHCCs" means, collectively, two or more such providers 
of primary health care services. 
23. 
"Participating Public Hospital" means an eligible public hospital pursuant to eligibility terms 
provided under the POM, to which or for whose benefit a Special Capitation Payment is made or 
proposed to be made pursuant to the provisions of a Health Service Provider Agreement; and 
"Participating Public Hospitals" means, collectively, two or more such eligible public hospitals. 
24. 
"PHC UHC" means Primary Health Care Universal Health Coverage. 
25. 
"PHCC" means a Primary Health Care Center established and operating lawfully in the Borrower's 
territory. 
26. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated June 5, 2016, 
and provided for under Section IV of the Procurement Regulations, as the same may be updated 
from time to time in agreement with the Bank. 
27. 
"Procurement Regulations" means the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for Borrowers under 
Investment Project Financing", dated July 1, 2016. 
28. 
"Project Management Unit" or "PMU" means the Borrower's unit referred to in Section I.A. I of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
29. 
"Project Operations Manual" or "POM" means the manual to be prepared and adopted by the 
Borrower pursuant to the provisions of Section LB. I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
30. 
"Safeguard Instrument" means an ESIA, ESMF or ESMP for a Project activity; and "Safeguard 
Instruments" means, collectively, two or more such instruments. 
31. 
"Special Capitation Payment" means a financial transfer (beyond MoPH's contracted budget 
ceiling) from the Borrower to a Participating Public Hospital under Part 2.1 of the Project, pursuant 
to the terms and conditions of a Health Service Provider Agreement, and "Special Capitation 
Payments" means, collectively, two or more such financial transfers. 
32. 
"Steering Committee" means the Borrower's committee referred to in Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement, to be responsible for, inter alia: (a) providing strategic and policy guidance on 
matters relating to the Project; and (b) coordinating inter-agency policies and roles, all in 
accordance with the provisions of the Project Operations Manual. 
33. 
"Third Party Agents" means the Borrower's agents referred to in Section I.B.3(a) of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
-19-
34. 
"Training and Workshops" means the training of persons involved in Project-supported activities 
such term including scholarships, seminars, workshops, and study tours, and costs associated with 
such activity including local and international travel and subsistence costs for training participants, 
per diems, costs associated with securing the services of trainers, rental of training facilities, 
preparation and reproduction of training materials, and other costs directly related to training 
preparation and implementation. 
35. 
"Uninsured Lebanese" means Lebanese nationals who have met the eligibility criteria set out in the 
POM and are the beneficiaries of medical and paramedical services under Part 2.1 of the Project. 
36. 
"Vulnerable Lebanese" means Lebanese nationals who have met the eligibility criteria set out in 
the POM and are the beneficiaries of Packages of Essential Health Services under Part 1.1 of the 
Project 
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows: 
1. 
Wherever used throughout the General Conditions, the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read 
"Payment of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan". Furthermore, wherever used in Sections 
3.02 to 3.08; Section 3.10; Section 4.01; Section 4.02 to 4.05 (including the Title); and Section 
9.05, the term "the Loan" is modified to read "the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan"; the term 
"Unwithdrawn Loan Balance" is modified to read "Unwithdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional 
Portion of the Loan"; and the term "Withdrawn Loan Balance" is modified to read "Withdrawn 
Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan". 
2. 
In Section 2.07, Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee and Interest, the 
term "the Loan" in paragraph (a) and the term "the Loan" after "other charges on" in paragraph (c) 
is deleted and replaced with "the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan". 
3. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers are 
modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below. 
4. 
Section 3.01. (Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows: 
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge 
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Non-Concessional Portion of the 
Loan at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee"). 
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Balance of 
the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the 
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date 
of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower 
from the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in 
arrears on each Payment Date." 
5. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all references to Section numbers and paragraphs are modified, as 
necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above. 
-20-
6. 
Wherever used in the following definitions of the terms "Conversion"; "Currency Conversion"; 
"Default Interest Period"; "Default Interest Rate"; "Default Variable Rate"; "Fixed Rate"; "Fixed 
Reference Rate"; "Fixed Spread"; "Interest Rate Cap"; "Interest Rate Conversion"; "Principal 
Payment Date"; "Reference Rate Reset Date"; "Screen Rate"; "Variable Rate"; "Variable Spread"; 
"Variable Spread Fixing Charge"; the term "the Loan" is modified to read "the Non-Concessional 
Portion of the Loan"; the term "Unwithdrawn Loan Balance" is modified to read "the Unwithdrawn 
Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan"; and the term "Withdrawn Loan Balance" 
is modified to read "Withdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan". 
7. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition of 
"Commitment Charge", and the remaining paragraphs are renumbered accordingly: 
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan Agreement 
for the purpose of Section 3.0l(b)." 
8. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 ( originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition of"Front-
end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01 (a). 
9. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 ( originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition of the 
term "Loan Paymenf' is modified to read as follows: 
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank pursuant to 
the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited to) any amount of 
the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the 
Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or 
early termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium 
payable upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding 
Amount payable by the Borrower." 
10. 
A new paragraph 73 with the following definition of "Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan" is 
added to the Appendix, and the remaining paragraphs are renumbered accordingly: 
"73. 
"Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan" means portion of the Loan provided to the 
Borrower on non-concessional terms in the Loan Agreement." 
11. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the definition of 
"Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting the words "and Commitment 
Charge are" after the word "interest". 
12. 
In the renumbered paragraph 94 (originally paragraph 92) of the Appendix, the definition of 
"Unwithdrawn Loan Balance" is modified to read as follows: 
"94. 
"Unwithdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan" means the amount 
of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan remaining unwithdrawn from the Loan Account from 
time to time." 
13. 
In the renumbered paragraph 98 (originally paragraph 96) of the Appendix, the definition of 
"Withdrawn Loan Balance" is modified to read as follows: 
-21-
"98. 
"Withdrawn Loan Balance" means the amounts of the: (i) Non-Concessional Portion of the 
Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account and outstanding from time to time; plus (ii) Concessional 
Portion of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account from time to time." 
14. 
A new paragraph 99 with the following definition of "Withdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional 
Portion of the Loan" is added to the Appendix, and the remaining paragraphs are renumbered 
accordingly: 
"99. 
"Withdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan" means the amounts of 
the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account and outstanding from 
time to time." 
