OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8881-PA
Loan Agreement
(Third Programmatic Shared Prosperity Development Policy Financing)
between
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between REPUBLIC OF PANAMA ("Borrower")
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for
the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this
Agreement). The Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (i) the
actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in
Section I. A. of Schedule I to this Agreement; and (ii) the Borrower's maintenance of an adequate
macroeconomic policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II- LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of one hundred million Dollars,
($100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion ("Loan").
2.02. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.04. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
2.07. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.05 of the General Conditions, the
Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of
this Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this
end, and further to Section 5.05 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework and the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program; and
(b) 
without limitation upon paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall promptly
inform the Bank of any situation that would have the effect of materially reversing
the objectives of the Program or any action taken under the Program including any
action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a situation has
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be
carried out.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that the Bank
is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program and
with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE VI- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance.
6.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower's address is:
Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas
Viceministerio de Economia
Direcci6n de Financiamiento P6blico
Edificio Ogawa, Via Espafia y Calle 52E
Corregimiento de Bella Vista
Apartado postal: 0816-02886
Ciudad de Panamd
Rep(blica de Panama; and
2
(b) 
the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
E-mail:
ridcp@mef.gob.pa
6.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) 
the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
E-mail:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
ysakho@worldbank.org
64145(MCI)
3
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
REPUBLIC OF PANA
By
Authorized Representative
N me: 
,\STnVO 
\GJceYtCCmG)
Title: 
1c 
am L 
fo 
conOI
Date: ' 
-0 qO
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: A( ConSO /\Ve enory\o o
Title: CounTfL 
a 
LXcPF\
Date: -:TL )\ A0
4
SCHEDULE1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
A. 
Actions Taken Under the Program. The actions taken by the Borrower under the
Program include the following:
Pillar 1: Strengthening the Frameworks for International Tax Transparency, Financial Integrity,
and Fiscal Management.
1. 
The Borrower has established the legal framework for the implementation of the Common
Reporting Standards for the Automatic Exchange of Information in Tax Matters, as
evidenced by Law No. 51, dated October 27, 2016 and published in the Borrower's Official
Gazette on October 28, 2016, and Executive Decree No. 124, dated May 12, 2017 and
published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on May 12, 2017.
2. 
The Borrower has: (a) approved the Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in
Tax Matters, as evidenced by Law No. 5, dated February 21, 2017 and published in the
Borrower's Official Gazette on February 23, 2017; and (b) signed the Multilateral
Competent Authority Agreement on Automatic Exchange of Financial Account
Information, as evidenced by the OECD's list of signatories; all to complement its legal
framework for the automatic exchange of financial information in tax matters.
3. 
The Borrower, through its Superintendence of Banks, has adopted internal supervision
procedures on bearer shares and beneficial owners on banks and fiduciaries, and started
implementation of the internal supervision procedures, as evidenced by letter SBP-DPC-
N-0652-2018 of the Superintendent of Banks dated February 8, 2018.
4. 
The Borrower, through MEF, has submitted to the National Assembly a draft bill to
establish tax evasion as a predicate offense for money laundering, as evidenced by the Draft
Bill No. 591 submitted on January 18, 2018 to the National Assembly.
5. 
The Borrower, through MEF, has completed the integration of all budgetary accounts of
central government entities under the Treasury Single Account, with links to ISTMO as
evidence by MEF Letter 2018-29601 dated April 25, 2018.
Pillar 2: Strengthening Institutional Arrangements to Support Inclusion in Social Assistance and
Education.
6. 
The Borrower has: (a) created a Single Registry of Beneficiaries and a Single Payment
Platform, and mandated periodical recertification of beneficiaries of, inter alia, the Red de
Oportunidades, 120 a los 65 and Angel Guardian conditional cash transfers programs, as
evidenced by Law No. 54, dated November 8, 2016, published in the Borrower's official
gazette dated November 11, 2016; and (b) approved and adopted a Unique Registry Form
5
for Social Protection, as evidenced by Resolution No. 285, dated July 28, 2017 and
published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on September 7, 2017.
7. 
The Borrower, through MIDES, has established: (a) a proxy-means test to target the
beneficiaries of Red de Oportunidades, 120 a los 65 and Angel Guardidn conditional cash
transfers programs; and (b) criteria for recertification of beneficiaries of the Red de
Oportunidades, 120 a los 65 and Angel Guardidn conditional cash transfers programs; all
as evidenced by Resolution No. 544, dated November 14, 2016 and published in the
Borrower's Official Gazette on November 29, 2016.
8. 
The Borrower has: (a) institutionalized the Panama Bilingie Program, including the
obligation of MEDUCA to establish mechanisms for monitoring, certification and
recertification for English language teachers, as evidenced by Law No. 18, dated May 10,
2017 and published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on May 10, 2017; (b) through
MITRADEL, rolled out and implemented the ProJoven program across the country, as
evidenced by MITRADEL Letter No. 0377 D.M, dated April 13, 2018.
Pillar 3: Enhancing the Regulatory and Sustainability Framework in the Energy and Water Sectors.
9. 
The Borrower: (a) through the National Secretary of Energy, has issued energy efficiency
standards for the construction of new public and private buildings, as evidenced by the
adoption of the Sustainable Construction Guidelines for Saving Energy in Buildings dated
November 17, 2016 and published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on November 24,
2016; and (b) through the Ministry of Commerce and Industries, has publicly disclosed the
energy efficiency technical standards for air conditioners, making them binding, as
evidenced by Resolutions No. 65, No. 67 and No. 69 dated July 11, 2017, published in the
Borrower's Official Gazette dated July 21, 2017.
Section H. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by
notice to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from
which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan
Allocated
(expressed in US Dollars)
(1) Single 
100,000,000
Withdrawal Tranche
TOTAL AMOUNT 
100,000,000
6
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.
1. 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is
satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with the adequacy
of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
D. 
Deposit of Loan Amounts.
1. 
The Borrower, within thirty (30) days after the withdrawal of the Loan from the Loan
Account, shall report to the Bank: (a) the exact sum received into the account referred to
in Section 2.03 (a) of the General Conditions; and (b) the record that an equivalent amount
has been accounted for in the Borrower's budget management systems.
E. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is December 31, 2019.
7
SCHEDULE 2
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date ("Installment Share").
Level Principal Repayments
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning November 15, 2020 
2.78%
through November 15, 2037
On May 15, 2038 
2.70%
8
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Development Policy Financing", dated July 14,
2017.
2. 
"Integraci6n y Soluciones Tecnol6gicas del Modelo de Gesti6n Operativa" or "ISTMO"
means the Integration and Technological Solutions of the Operational Management Model,
an integrated resource planning system for the Borrower's public sector implemented by
the MEF.
3. 
"MEDUCA" means Ministerio de Educaci6n, the Borrower's Ministry of Education.
4. 
"MEF" means Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas, the Borrower's Ministry of Economy
and Finance.
5. 
"MIDES" means Ministerio de Desarrollo Social, the Borrower's Ministry of Social
Development.
6. 
"MITRADEL" means Ministerio de Trabajo y Desarrollo Laboral, the Borrower's
Ministry of Labor Development.
7. 
"OECD" means Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development.
8. 
"Panamd Bilingue Program" means the Borrower's capacity building program aimed at
implementing teaching and learning in English as a second language.
9. 
"Program" means: the program of objectives, policies, and actions set forth or referred to
in the letter dated April 23, 2018 from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in
support of the Program during its execution and comprising actions taken, including those
set forth in Section I of Schedule I to this Agreement, and actions to be taken consistent
with the program's objectives.
10. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the date of the Loan
Agreement" in the General Conditions.
11. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category
entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of
Schedule I to this Agreement.
12. 
"Treasury Single Account" or "TSA" is an account that will unify all central government
agencies bank accounts to better manage liquidity of public funds.
9
