OFFICIAL 
DOCUMENTS 
LOAN NUMBER 88450-CI 
Loan Agreement 
(Cashew Value-Chain Competitiveness Project) 
between 
CONSEIL DU COTON ET DE L' ANACARDE 
and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 88450-CI 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between CONSEIL DU COTON 
ET DE L' ANACARDE 
("Borrower") 
and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank 
hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to 
and form part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix 
to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II -
LOAN 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower an amount equivalent to one hundred 
sixty-three million seven hundred thousand Euros (163,700,000 €) ("Loan"), to 
assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to this Agreement 
("Project"). 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section 
III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the 
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance. 
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Fixed Spread or such rate as may 
apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General 
Conditions. 
2.06. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and 
unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in accordance with the 
provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis applicable to the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each Interest Period 
shall be converted from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full 
maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
-2-
2.07 
The Payment Dates are February 1st and August 1st in each year. 
2.08. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement. 
-3-
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, 
the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions and Schedules 2 and 4 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
(a) 
The Borrower has signed a fiduciary management agreement with FIRCA 
to entrust FIR CA with the financial management and procurement of the 
Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower has adopted the PIM with the specifications described in 
Section 1.C of Schedule 2 of this Agreement and as approved by the Bank. 
( c) 
The Guarantee Agreement acceptable to the Bank has been executed on 
behalf of the Guarantor. 
( d) 
The Borrower shall cause the Guarantor to issue for the purpose of the 
Project a waiver of the provisions of Decree No 2015-475 dated July 1, 
2015, governing the modalities of donor-financed projects that requires 
the appointment of a public accountant and a financial controller from the 
Ministry of Budget. 
(e) 
The Bank has received evidence that the Borrower has established a 
Guarantee Account with the Guarantee Account Bank and deposited in the 
Guarantee Account an amount equal to eighteen (18) months' peak 
anticipated debt service payments on the Loan, as calculated by the Bank, 
it being understood that for the purposes of such initial calculation, the 
debt service payments shall only include the principal and interest 
repayments for Loan amounts that are anticipated in bona fide to be 
requested by the Borrower for its first disbursement on or around the 
Effective Date. 
(f) 
A Guarantee Account Security Agreement, acceptable to the Bank, has 
been duly executed on behalf of the Borrower, the Guarantee Account 
Bank, and the Bank, setting forth each party's rights and obligations 
thereunder; and the Bank has received legal opinions of counsel acceptable 
to the Bank or other assurances satisfactory to the Bank, evidencing the 
validity and enforceability of the Bank's rights set forth in the Guarantee 
Account Security Agreement under the laws of the jurisdiction in which 
-4-
the Guarantee Account Security Agreement is located, including the 
Bank's security interest in the amounts on deposit in the Guarantee 
Account under the Guarantee Account Security Agreement; and showing 
that the Guarantee Account Security Agreement has been duly authorized, 
executed and delivered on behalf the Borrower and is legally binding upon 
the Borrower in accordance with its terms. 
(g) 
The Bank has received evidence that the Borrower has established a 
Repayment Account with the Repayment Account Bank, with the purpose 
of depositing the FCF A 20 I kg portion of the Levy in accordance with the 
terms of Schedule 4. 
(h) 
A Repayment Account Agreement, acceptable to the Bank, has been duly 
executed on behalf of the Borrower, the Repayment Account Bank, the 
Guarantor, and the Bank, setting forth each party's respective rights and 
obligations thereunder; and the Bank has received legal opinions 
satisfactory to the Bank of counsel acceptable to the Bank or other 
assurances satisfactory to the Bank, evidencing 
the validity and 
enforceability of the Bank's rights, and showing that the Repayment 
Account Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered on 
behalf the Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in 
accordance with its terms. 
(i) 
The Bank has received a letter or other satisfactory assurance from the 
BCEAO (which may be addressed to the Borrower or the Guarantor, but 
upon which the Bank can rely) confirming that the BCEAO has no 
objections to the opening of the Guarantee Account in EUR with the 
Guarantee Account Bank in accordance with the applicable rules and 
regulations of the BCEAO. 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after 
the Signature Date. 
4.03. 
For purposes of Section 9.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement ( other than those providing for 
payment obligations and the obligations of the Borrower set forth in Schedule 4) 
shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the Signature Date. 
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its director general. 
5.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: 
-5-
(a) 
the Borrower's address is: 
Conseil du Coton et de l 'Anacarde 
Plateau Immeuble CAIST AB 15e etage -
BP604 
Abidjan, Cote d'Ivoire and 
(b) 
the Borrower's Electronic Address is: 
Facsimile: 
225 22 52 75 85 
E-mail: 
support@conseilcotonanacarde.ci 
5.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: 
(a) 
the Bank's address is: 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America; and 
(b) 
the Bank's Electronic Address is: 
Facsimile: 
1-202-477-6391 
E-mail: 
bureaududirecteur@worldbank.org 
-6-
AGREED as of the Signature Date. 
CONSEIL DU COTON ET DEL' ANACARDE 
By 
Authorized Representative 
Name: })r~ ,.4;klf9 (04lil:9\y 
Title: DI ra:c..1't,,v 6z:ncfl4 
Date: AP(' I J.( ?o l '6 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
By 
Name: Hq K. hfar t> I op 
Title: \Jj (e PrfSl ~+ 
Date: Ap11 J ;),f
7 Jo l~ 
-7-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description 
The objective of the Project is to increase cashew productivity, quality and value-
added, benefiting smallholder farmers and the cashew processing industry in the Republic 
of Cote d'Ivoire. 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part 1 : Institutional strengthening and value chain governance 
1. 
Building capacity of the key organizations overseeing the cashew value chain 
(a) 
Supporting the Borrower for its organizational development to manage 
stakeholder processes and training in quality control and marketing, by 
providing it with specialized technical assistance, transport, office and 
information technology equipment, a geo-referenced management 
information system, technical advisory services and equipment and goods 
in bulk. 
(b) 
Supporting the establishment of a national cashew inter-professional body 
through organizational development measures, including capacity 
building in administration specific long-term technical assistance as well 
as short term specialized expertise, provision of transport, office and 
information technology equipment and funding to cover the initial 
operating costs of the inter-professional body. 
(c) 
Supporting the cashew cooperatives with their legal registration by 
providing technical and managerial for their officials in areas such as good 
governance, operational management, financial assistance and auditing 
techniques, business development, marketing and creditworthiness. 
(d) 
Supporting DOPA to oversee the process of organi.zing the value chain 
actors into professional entities by establishing the cashew industry inter-
professional body and supervising the cashew producer organizations' 
accounts. The Project will also provide transport and office and 
information technology equipment to DOPA. 
2. 
Improving the cashew business environment 
(a) 
Assessing the regulations and licenses required to sell, buy and trade 
cashew products to reduce marketing costs by financing studies and 
-8-
diagnostics of current procedures in relation to competing markets and 
countries. 
(b) 
Supporting MIM to implement and monitor measures that are designed to 
improve the business environment such as fiscal incentives, specific 
subsidies and a fast track mechanism for processing incentives. 
(c) 
Supporting ANDE to ensure that all cashew processing companies meet 
environmental and social standards, and to simplify the procedures and 
reduce the cost of obtaining environmental permits by financing; (i) an 
environmental awareness campaign targeting small and medium cashew-
processing enterprises; and (ii) capacity building for ANDE to implement 
an electronic platform to facilitate environmental impact assessment. 
Part 2: Productivity enhancement and improved access to raw cashew nuts market 
1. 
National cashew research and seedling development 
Promoting a national cashew research and seedling development program in 
partnership with CNRA, FIRCA, and academia by supporting the implementation 
of the PNRA through: (a) continued research on high-performing tree varieties; 
(b) a feasibility study, the construction, and equipping of a specialized laboratory 
to produce improved planting material in vitro; ( c) strengthening human resources 
in cashew research by funding specialized training, notably in plant genetics, 
variety development, and plant protection, technology testing, transfer, and 
dissemination of research results, including exchange seminars, workshops and 
demonstration trials; and ( d) providing logistics and information technology 
equipment. 
2. 
Support for cashew extension services and technology transfer 
Supporting ANADER's cashew extension program through (a) the establishment 
of cashew development centers; (b) training of staff in good agricultural practices; 
( c) development and dissemination of extension materials; ( d) provision of 
facilities to multiply seedlings, as well as equipment to facilitate extension 
outreach to farmers; and ( e) equipping and financially supporting additional 
training and advisory service providers, including non-governmental organizations 
and youth enterprises. 
3. 
Rehabilitation and maintenance of feeder roads 
Implementing a feeder road rehabilitation and maintenance program jointly with 
AGEROUTE, , by (a) rehabilitating feeder roads and maintenance and light 
reprofiling of these roads over the duration of the Project, including by carrying 
out technical studies, environmental and social impact assessments, mitigation 
-9-
measures; and (b) developing a community-based road maintenance strategy and 
strengthening road maintenance associations and providing them with low-cost 
hand tools and equipment to undertake routine maintenance. 
Part 3: Support to private investment in post- harvest and processing infrastructure 
1. 
Cashew post-harvest and processing infrastructure development 
(a) 
Improving returns throughout the value chain (farm, processing, storage 
and export) by (i) investing in warehouse facilities and organizing a series 
of regional workshops to train warehouse managers in best practices for 
warehouse management; and (ii) providing financial support on a cost 
sharing basis (fifty percent (50%)) for additional storage capacity of raw 
cashew nuts. 
(b) 
Supporting the establishment of cashew processing platforms in the major 
producing areas by (i) conducting site identification and assessment; 
(ii) supporting detailed technical and economic feasibility studies for 
developing the platform, master planning and development, business 
development 
plan, 
and 
environmental 
and 
social 
safeguards; 
(iii) financing the construction of the platform's critical infrastructure and 
common services; (iv) developing an investment promotion campaign for 
the site, including the development and implementation of an aftercare 
program for the retention and expansion for the cashew processing 
investors; and (v) supporting the establishment of its management 
structure. 
( c) 
Supporting a network of cashew service hubs that will serve as outreach 
buying points for the processing platforms as well as distribution points 
providing farm inputs. Each hub will be equipped with a warehouse for 
raw materials, a drying yard, a small storage facility for inputs and will be 
staffed by trained, knowledgeable personnel. 
2. 
Access to investment capital and risk management instruments 
Improving access to finance for the domestic cashew industry participants by: 
(a) providing technical support to Partner Financial Institutions (PFis); 
(b) establishing a dedicated financing facility ("Dedicated Financing Facility" or 
"DFF") for both long term investment funding and support for micro-investments 
to modernize or establish processing and storage facilities; and ( c) contributing to 
the Borrower's security deposit scheme ("Security Deposit Scheme" or "SDS") for 
short-term credit facilities to processors to acquire raw cashew nuts. 
-10-
3. 
Support market development and trade 
Supporting the effective development of domestic, regional, and international 
markets for cashew products by (a) conducting a study of opportunities for 
marketing cashew products and byproducts and a branding and marketing 
campaign; (b) promoting principles of quality control and food safety in processing 
and marketing raw cashew nuts, as well as food safety management standards; and 
( c) setting up a market information system on prices for raw cashew nuts and 
processed kernels to all stakeholders. 
Part 4: Project coordination. monitoring and knowledge management 
Supporting the administrative, technical, and financial management of the Project, 
the coordination among all institutional partners, the effective contractual 
arrangements with key state implementing partners and the monitoring and 
evaluation of the Project's performance and financial, environmental and social 
impact. 
-11-
SCHEDULE2 
Section I. 
Project Execution 
Implementation Arrangements 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
Project Steering Committee 
(a) 
The Borrower's board will serve as the Project's steering committee 
("Steering Committee") and shall be chaired by the president of the board. 
(b) 
The Steering Committee shall be in charge of the oversight, orientation, 
overall coordination of Project activities and partners and responsible for: 
(i) advising the Borrower on strategic directions and supporting activities; 
(ii) approving the Annual Work Plan and Budget; (iii) ensuring effective 
collaboration and cooperation between all key stakeholders; and 
(iv) reviewing the PCU's implementation progress reports. 
2. 
Project Coordination Unit 
(a) 
The Borrower shall establish a project coordination unit ("Project 
Coordination Unit" or "PCU") that will oversee the planning and 
budgeting of Project activities and execute the approved Annual Work 
Plans and Budget. The PCU shall also oversee the technical supervision 
and quality control, gender and social inclusion, environmental and social 
safeguards, and monitoring and evaluation of the Project. 
(b) 
The PCU shall be chaired by the director general of the CCA who will act 
as overall Project coordinator. 
(c) 
The PCU shall, at all times during Project implementation, retain the 
following staff, inter alia, each with terms of reference, qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Bank: (i) a project coordinator, (ii) a 
technical and operations officer for cashew production, (iii) a technical 
and operations officer for cashew processing, (iv) an internal auditor, (v) a 
gender and social inclusion specialist/social safeguard specialist, (vi) an 
environmental safeguards specialist, and (vii) a monitoring and evaluation 
specialist. 
( d) 
As transitional measures, the implementation unit for the West Africa 
Agriculture Productivity Program, established within FIRCA, shall 
initially be responsible for managing and coordinating Project activities, 
including procurement and financial management and the daily 
-12-
management of the Designated Account. No later than three (3) months 
after the Effective Date the PCU will take over all functions, apart from 
the fiduciary function, which will remain entrusted to FIRCA. 
3. 
Project Implementation Agencies 
(a) 
For the purpose of carrying out Project activities the Borrower shall no 
later than three (3) months after the Effective Date, enter into Subproject 
Agreements 
with 
project 
implementation 
agencies 
("Project 
Implementation Agencies" or "PIAs"), each under their respective 
mandates: (i) FIRCA and CNRA for agriculture research activities and 
production of seedlings, (ii) ANADER for extension of cashew good 
agricultural practices, 
(iii) DOPA for 
support to professional 
organizations, (iv) AGEDI for promotion of the processing platforms 
dedicated to cashew, (v) BNETD for preparation of technical studies, and 
(vi) AGEROUTE for the rehabilitation of feeder roads. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall, through the PCU and FIRCA, require each PIA to: 
(i) 
carry out its Subproject with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance 
with 
sound 
technical, 
economic, 
financial, 
managerial, environmental and social standards and practices 
satisfactory to the Bank; 
(ii) 
provide, promptly as needed, the resources required for the 
purpose; 
(iii) 
procure the goods and services in accordance with the provisions 
of the relevant Subproject Agreement and the Bank's Procurement 
Regulations; 
(iv) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the 
Bank, the progress of the Subproject and the achievement of its 
objectives; 
(v) 
(A) maintain a financial management system and prepare financial 
statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting 
standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to 
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Subproject; and (B) at the Bank's or the Guarantor's request, have 
such financial statements audited by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, and promptly furnish 
the statements as so audited to the Borrower and the Bank; 
-13-
(vi) 
enable the Guarantor and the Bank to inspect the Subproject, its 
operation and any relevant records and documents; and 
(vii) 
prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such 
information as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably request 
relating to the foregoing. 
(c) 
The Borrower shall, through the PCU, exercise its rights under each 
Subproject Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. 
( d) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, 
amend, abrogate or waive any Subproject Agreement or any of its 
provisions. 
4. 
Fiduciary Arrangements 
(a) 
Pursuant to Article 4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall enter into 
an agreement with FIRCA to entrust it with the fiduciary responsibility of 
the Project. FIRCA's finance and administrative director shall act as the 
Project's fiduciary director. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall ensure that FIR CA: 
(i) 
appoints: (A) a financial management specialist, (B) a 
procurement specialist, (C) a principal accountant, and (D) an 
external auditor, all with qualifications and experience 
satisfactory to the Bank and no later than three (3) months after 
the Effective Date; 
(ii) 
updates the accounting software and its fiduciary procedures 
manual no later than two (2) months after the Effective Date; 
(iii) 
no later than two (2) months after the Effective Date, signs a 
protocol with IGF and MEF which will allow IGF to include the 
Project in the scope of its work; and 
(iv) 
creates an audit committee to strengthen its capacity and 
performance regarding its oversight function for the Project, no 
later than six ( 6) months after the Effective Date. 
-14-
B. 
Dedicated Financing Facility and Security Deposit Scheme 
1. 
For the purposes of carrying out Part 3.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall: 
(a) establish a Dedicated Financing Facility to incentivize PFls to increase their 
lending to the cashew industry by providing funding for Eligible Expenditures, in 
the form of (i) Collateral Enhancement Grants for cashew post-harvest investments 
including for upgrading or modernizing existing storage and processing facilities 
and (ii) Matching Grants for small storage facilities and investment initiatives for 
youth aged between eighteen (18) and thirty-five (35) and women; and (b) 
contribute to the Security Deposit Scheme to guarantee loans issued by eligible 
PFis for Beneficiaries to fund their raw cashew nuts stocks. 
2. 
Beneficiaries will be selected by a project grant committee ("PGC") to be 
established by the PCU which will also oversee the management of the Collateral 
Enhancement Grants, the Matching Grants and the Security Deposits. 
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that each Collateral Enhancement Grant, Matching 
Grant and Security Deposit shall be eligible for financing only upon the 
Borrower's determination, on the basis of an appraisal conducted in accordance 
with the criteria, guidelines and detailed procedures set forth in the Project 
Implementation Manual, that the Collateral Enhancement Grant, the Matching 
Grant or the Security Deposit satisfies the eligibility criteria specified in the Project 
Implementation Manual, and has been, inter alia: 
(a) 
appraised on the basis of an environmental and social assessment and other 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank (and be accompanied by appropriate 
Safeguard Documents, if required); 
(b) 
designed to avoid any involuntary resettlement of persons or loss of their 
income or productive capacity; 
( c) 
designed to ensure that, in compliance with the national legislation enacted 
pursuant its obligations under the C138 -Minimum Age Convention and 
the C182 - Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention, there is no use of 
child labour; 
( d) 
designed to prohibit and prevent any gender based violence or sexual 
exploitation and violence; 
(e) 
approved by the Borrower and the Bank, unless with respect to the Bank's 
approval, the Bank has notified the Borrower in writing that its prior 
approval is not required; and 
(f) 
included in the Annual Work Plan and Budget approved by the Bank in 
accordance with Section F of this Schedule. 
-15-
4. 
The Borrower, through the PCU, shall make each Collateral Enhancement Grant, 
Matching Grant or Security Deposit available to the Beneficiary, under a Collateral 
Enhancement Grant Agreement, Matching Grant Agreement or Security Deposit 
Agreement as applicable, with the respective Beneficiary on terms and conditions 
approved by the Bank, which shall, inter alia, include the following: 
(a) 
The Borrower shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and those 
of the Bank, including the right to: 
(i) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to use the 
proceeds of the Collateral Enhancement Grant, the Matching 
Grant, or the Security Deposit or obtain a refund of all or any part 
of the amount of the Collateral Enhancement Grant, the Matching 
Grant or the Security Deposit then withdrawn, upon the 
Beneficiary's failure to perform any of its obligations under the 
Collateral Enhancement Grant Agreement, the Matching Grant 
Agreement or the Security Deposit Agreement, as applicable; and 
(ii) 
require each Beneficiary to: 
(A) 
carry out the activities financed or guaranteed by the 
Collateral Enhancement Grant, the Matching Grant or the 
Security Deposit with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with sound technical, economic, financial, 
managerial, environmental, social, labour and health 
standards and practices satisfactory to the Bank, including 
in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines applicable to recipients ofloan proceeds other 
than the Borrower; 
(B) 
provide, promptly as needed, the resources required for 
the purpose; 
(C) 
procure the goods, works and services to be financed out 
of or guaranteed by the Collateral Enhancement Grant, the 
Matching Grant or the Security Deposit in accordance 
with the provisions of this Agreement; 
(D) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate in accordance with indicators 
acceptable to the Bank, the progress of the Collateral 
Enhancement Grant, the Matching Grant or the Security 
Deposit and the achievement of its respective objectives; 
(E) 
(1) 
-16-
maintain a financial management system and 
prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently 
applied 
accounting 
standards 
acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate 
to 
reflect 
the 
operations, 
resources 
and 
expenditures 
related 
to 
the 
Collateral 
Enhancement Grant, the Matching Grant or the 
Security Deposit; and 
(2) 
at the Bank's or the Borrower's request, have 
such financial statements audited by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance 
with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Bank, and promptly furnish the 
statements as so audited to the Borrower and the 
Bank; 
(F) 
enable the Borrower and the Bank to inspect the activities 
financed by or guaranteed by the Collateral Enhancement 
Grant, the Matching Grant or the Security Deposit and 
any relevant records and documents; and 
(G) 
prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such 
information as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing. 
5. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Collateral Enhancement Grant 
Agreement, Matching Grant Agreement and Security Deposit Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan. 
6. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive any Collateral Enhancement Grant Agreement, Matching Grant 
Agreement or Security Deposit Agreement or any of their provisions. 
C. 
PIM 
Pursuant to Article 4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare or cause to 
be prepared, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, a 
Project implementation manual, containing detailed arrangements and procedures 
for: (i) institutional coordination and Project implementation; (ii) the roles and 
responsibilities of all involved stakeholders; (iii) Project budgeting, accounting, 
disbursement and financial management; (iv) procurement; (v) environmental, 
social, labour and health and safety safeguards (including an environmental and 
social exclusion list and measures designed to prohibit, prevent and address gender 
-17-
based violence and sexual exploitation and abuse); (vi) monitoring, evaluation, 
reporting and communication; (vii) model Subproject Agreements to be entered 
into with the PIAs; (viii) the composition and operation of the Project Grant 
Committee, the criteria for eligibility and selection of the Partner Finance 
Institutions and the Beneficiaries of the Dedicated Financing Facility and the 
Security Deposit Scheme, the financial management, procurement and 
disbursement procedures of the Collateral Enhancement Grants, the Matching 
Grants and the Security Deposits; and (ix) other such administrative, financial, 
technical and organizational arrangements and procedures as shall be required for 
purposes of implementing the Project ("Project Implementation Manual" or 
"PIM"). 
D. 
Safeguards 
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that all activities carried out under the Project are 
consistent with the Banks's social and environmental safeguard policy 
requirements, as well as the Guarantor's own environmental and social laws and 
regulations (including, but not limited to, national legislation enacted pursuant its 
obligations under the C138 - Minimum Age Convention and the C182 - Worst 
Forms of Child Labour Convention). 
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with the 
provisions, guidelines, procedures, timetables and other specifications set forth in 
the ESMF, the IPMP and the RPF and any Safeguards Document to be prepared 
under the Project. 
3. 
If any Project activity would, pursuant to the RPF, require the preparation of a 
RAP, no such activity shall be implemented, unless: (a) a RAP for such activity 
has been: (i) prepared in accordance with the requirements of the RPF and 
furnished to the Bank; (ii) approved by the Bank; and (iii) publicly disclosed as 
required by the RPF; and (b) (i) all measures required to betaken under said RAP 
prior to the initiation of said activity have been taken, including, without limitation 
to the above, providing funds for resettlement compensation when and if required 
under a RAP; (ii) a report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, on the 
status of compliance with the requirements of said RAP has been prepared and 
furnished to the Bank; and (iii) the Bank has confirmed that the implementation of 
said activity may be commenced. 
4. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing and subject to compliance with 
applicable consultation and public disclosure requirements of the Bank, the 
Borrower shall not abrogate, amend, repeal, suspend or waive any provisions of 
any of the Safeguard Documents, nor shall it permit any other entity participating 
in the implementation of the Project to do so. 
-18-
5. 
Without limitation upon its other reporting obligations under this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall regularly collect, compile and submit to the Bank, on a quarterly 
basis, reports on the status of compliance with the Safeguard Documents, giving 
details of: (a) measures taken in furtherance of the Safeguard Documents; 
(b) conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the smooth 
implementation of the Safeguard Documents, such as, for example, accidents, 
fatalities or instances of gender based violence or sexual abuse and exploitation; 
and ( c) remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such conditions. 
6. 
In the event that any provision of either the Safeguard Documents shall conflict 
with any provision under this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall 
prevail. 
7. 
Without limitation to the excluded expenditures provision set forth in the PIM 
and/or the ESMF, the following activities shall not be eligible to be included in or 
funded under the Project ("Negative List"): 
(a) 
any activities that would lead to conversion or degradation of critical 
natural habitats or their supporting areas; 
(b) 
any activities that would lead to conversion or degradation of critical forest 
areas, related critical natural habitats, clearing of forests or forest 
ecosystems; and, 
(c) 
activities that use child labour, as per the national legislation enacted 
pursuant to the C138 -Minimum Age Convention and the C182- Worst 
Forms of Child Labour Convention. 
8. 
The Borrower shall ensure that employees, agents, service providers, contractors 
and subcontractors carry out the Project in conformity with acceptable 
environmental and social standards, practices and codes of conduct (which shall, 
inter alia, contain measures that prohibit, prevent and address gender based 
violence and sexual exploitation and abuse), the provisions of the Borrower's 
environmental and social laws (including, but not limited to, national legislation 
enacted pursuant its obligations under the C138 -Minimum Age Convention and 
the C182 - Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention), and the Safeguards 
Documents. 
9. 
The Borrower shall maintain, or shall cause to maintain, throughout Project 
implementation, and publicize or cause to publicize the availability of, a grievance 
redress mechanism, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, to hear and 
determine fairly and in good faith all complaints raised in relation to the Project, 
and take all measures necessary to implement the determinations made by such 
mechanism in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
-19-
10. 
The Borrower shall ensure that all terms of reference for any technical assistance, 
studies and analytical work under the Project shall be fully consistent with the 
Borrower's environmental and social safeguard policies, as well as the Borrower's 
own environmental and social laws (including, but not limited to, national 
legislation enacted pursuant its obligations under the C138 - Minimum Age 
Convention and the C182- Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention). 
E. 
Anti-Corruption 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines. 
F. 
Annual Work Plans and Budget 
1. 
Each year, the Borrower shall prepare a draft annual work plan and budget for the 
Project (including Training and Operating C.osts, and Collateral Enhancement 
Grants and Matching Grants) for each subsequent year of Project implementation, 
of such scope and detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 
2. 
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, not later than December 15 of each year, 
the annual work plans and budgets approved by the Steering Committee for the 
Banks' s review and approval; except for the annual work plan and budget for the 
Project for tae first year of Project implementation, which shall be furnished no 
later than one (1) month after the Effective Date. Only the activities included in an 
annual work plan and budget expressly approved by the Bank ( each an "Annual 
Work Plan and Budget") are eligible to be financed from the proceeds of the 
Financing. 
3. 
Training shall be carried out on the basis of Annual Work Plans and Budgets, 
which shall, inter a/ia, identify: (a) particulars of the training envisaged; (b) the 
personnel to be trained; ( c) the selection methods and criteria of the institution or 
individuals conducting such training; (d) the institution conducting such training 
if identified; ( e) the purpose and justification for such training; ( f) the location and 
duration of the proposed training; and (g) the estimate of the cost of such training. 
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
Annual Work Plans and Budgets. 
5. 
Annual Work Plans and Budgets may be revised as needed during Project 
implementation subject to the Banks's prior approval. 
-20-
Section II. 
Proiect Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
A. 
Project Reports 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, 
and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one ( 1) month after the end of the 
period covered by such report. 
B. 
Project Financial Audits 
The Borrower shall have the Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower, 
commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal is made. The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than six ( 6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
A. 
General. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and 
in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the 
Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (i) finance Eligible 
Expenditures; (ii) repay the Preparation Advance; and (iii) pay: (a) the Front-end 
Fee; and (b) each Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar premium; in the amount 
allocated and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category of 
the following table: 
-21-
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of 
Allocated 
Expenditures to be 
(expressed in Euros) 
financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Goods, 
works, 
non-consulting 
142,684,750 
100% 
services, and consulting services 
for the Project 
(2) Refund of the Preparation Advance 
1,606,000 
Amount 
payable 
pursuant to Section 
2.07 
(a) 
of the 
General Conditions 
(3) Collateral Enhancement Grants 
8,000,000 
100% 
and Matching Grants under the 
OFF 
( 4) Security Deoosits under the SOS 
11,000,000 
100% 
(5) Front-end Fee 
409,250 
Amount payable 
pursuant to Article 
2.03 of this 
Agreement in 
accordance with 
Section 2.07 (b) of 
the General 
Conditions 
( 6) Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
0 
Amount due 
Collar premium 
pursuant to Section 
4.05 (c) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
163,700,000 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period. 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made: 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed thirty-two million seven hundred 
thousand Euros (€32,700,000) may be made for payments made prior to 
this date but on or after April 30, 2017 for Eligible Expenditures under 
Category 1; or 
(b) 
under Categories 3 and 4 unless the Bank is satisfied that the Collateral 
Enhancement Grants, the Matching Grants and the Security Deposits 
comply with the provisions of paragraph 3 of Section LB of this Schedule 
2. 
. . . 
-22-
2. 
The Closing Date is July 31, 2023. 
~ 
' .. 
-23-
SCHEDULE3 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage 
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date 
("Installment Share"). 
Commitment Principal Repayments 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
01Auu021 
1.05% 
01Feb2022 
1.07% 
01Aug2022 
1.09% 
01Feb2023 
1.11% 
01Auu023 
1.14% 
01Feb2024 
1.16% 
01Aug2024 
1.18% 
01Feb2025 
1.21% 
01Aug2025 
1.23% 
01Feb2026 
1.25% 
01Auu026 
1.28% 
01Feb2027 
1.31% 
OlAuQ:2027 
1.33% 
01Feb2028 
1.36% 
01Aug2028 
1.39% 
01Feb2029 
1.41% 
01Aug2029 
1.44% 
01Feb2030 
1.47% 
01Aug2030 
1.50% 
01Feb2031 
1.53% 
01Auu031 
1.56% 
01Feb2032 
1.59% 
01Aug2032 
1.62% 
01Feb2033 
1.66% 
01Aug2033 
1.69% 
01Feb2034 
1.72% 
01Auu034 
1.76% 
01Feb2035 
1.79% 
01Aug2035 
1.83% 
01Feb2036 
1.86% 
01Aug2036 
1.90% 
01Feb2037 
1.94% 
01Aug2037 
1.98% 
01Feb2038 
2.02% 
-24-
01Aug2038 
2.06% 
01Feb2039 
2.10% 
01Aug2039 
2.14% 
01Feb2040 
2.18% 
01Aug2040 
2.23% 
01Feb2041 
2.27% 
01Aug2041 
2.32% 
01Feb2042 
2.36% 
01Aug2042 
2.41% 
01Feb2043 
2.46% 
OlAul!.2043 
2.51% 
01Feb2044 
2.56% 
01Aug2044 
2.61% 
01Feb2045 
2.66% 
01Aug2045 
2.72% 
01Feb2046 
2.77% 
OlAul!.2046 
2.83% 
01Feb2047 
2.88% 
01Aug2047 
2.94% 
01Feb2048 
2.56% 
Section I. 
-25-
SCHEDULE4 
Undertakings to Satisfy the Bank Enclave Loan Requirements 
Guarantee Account 
1. 
Establishment. At all times from and after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall 
maintain an amount in the Guarantee Account equal to eighteen ( 18) months' peak 
anticipated debt service payments under the Loan, as calculated by the Bank, it 
being understood that the debt service payments shall not include principal or 
interest repayments for Loan amounts that are not disbursed or requested by the 
Borrower to be disbursed at such time; provided that for the last eighteen (18) 
months of the term of the Loan, the amount required to be on deposit in the 
Guarantee Account shall be no greater than the anticipated remaining debt service 
payments due under the Loan at the time of each readjustment calculated as 
described in Section 1.2 below. For the avoidance of doubt, the Guarantee Account 
is to be opened with the Guarantee Account Bank under the Borrower's name and 
the amounts on deposit in the Guarantee Account, including interest paid by such 
Guarantee Account Bank, if any, are the property of the Borrower. 
2. 
Adjustment of Required Amounts. After the Effective Date, the amount required 
to be on deposit in the Guarantee Account may increase or decrease during the 
term of the Loan, based upon the Bank's calculation. Every six (6) months, 
concurrently with the semi-annual repayment invoices provided by the Bank to the 
Borrower, the Bank shall send a written calculation notifying the Borrower of such 
required amount. In the event that the amount on deposit in the Guarantee Account 
is less than the required amount at any six ( 6) month notification, then the 
Borrower shall transfer the difference into the Guarantee Account within thirty 
(30) days after the receipt thereof. In the event that the amount on deposit in the 
Guarantee Account is greater than the required amount at any six ( 6) month 
notification, then the Borrower may request the Bank to instruct the Guarantee 
Account Bank to transfer the surplus to the Repayment Account; and the Bank will 
provide such instruction to the Guarantee Account Bank as soon as reasonably 
practicable (which shall in no event be later than thirty (30) days after the receipt 
of such instruction by the Bank) so long as, at the time of any such transfer, the 
amount deposited in the Guarantee Account, after giving effect to such transfer, 
shall not be less than the required amount indicated in the Bank's latest six (6) 
month notification. 
3. 
Replenishment. If the Guarantee Account is ever drawn upon or otherwise 
insufficient, then the Borrower or the Guarantor shall replenish the Guarantee 
Account as soon as practicably possible and, in any event, no later than thirty (30) 
days following the earliest of (i) the day on which the Bank instructs the Guarantee 
Account Bank to immediately transfer funds from the Guarantee Account to an 
account specified by the Bank to satisfy outstanding debt service amounts, as set 
-26-
forth under Section II.2 hereunder, or (ii) the day on which the Borrower or the 
Guarantor becomes aware that the amount on deposit on the Guarantee Account is 
insufficient by notification of the Bank in accordance with Section 1.2 above or 
otherwise. 
4. 
Guarantee Account Security Agreement. The Guarantee Account Security 
Agreement will set forth the rights and interests of the Bank and the Borrower, as 
well as the responsibilities of the Guarantee Account Bank with respect to the 
Guarantee Account. Among other things, the Guarantee Account Security 
Agreement will provide that (a) the Bank may unilaterally instruct the Guarantee 
Account Bank to transfer funds from the Guarantee Account to pay overdue debt 
service amounts under the Loan if the Borrower fails to pay, (b) the Guarantee 
Account Bank shall deliver annual account statements for the Guarantee Account 
to the Bank and the Borrower, and ( c) the Bank and the Borrower may, at any time, 
access the Guarantee Account Bank's records for the Guarantee Account, 
including a complete history of transactions and related documents. At all times 
from and after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall comply with its obligations 
under the Guarantee Account Security Agreement and not take any action that 
would limit or hinder any of the Bank's rights under such agreement. 
5. 
Final Drawdowns. The Borrower may request the Bank to instruct the Guarantee 
Account Bank to draw on the Guarantee Account to make the final debt service 
payment(s) prior to final maturity of the Loan, to the extent that there is an 
outstanding balance in the Guarantee Account to cover these final debt service 
payment(s). The Bank will provide such instruction to the Guarantee Account 
Bank as soon as reasonably practicable (which shall in no event be later than thirty 
(30) days after the receipt of such instruction by the Bank), so long as, at the time 
of any such transfer, the amount deposited in the Guarantee Account, after giving 
effect to such transfer, shall not be less than the required amount indicated in the 
Bank's latest six (6) month notification. At the Borrower's request, at any time 
after the Loan has been repaid in full, the Bank will notify the Guarantee Account 
Bank that the Bank has no further interest in the Guarantee Account and will 
instruct the Guarantee Account Bank to pay the balance of the Guarantee Account 
into any account specified by the Borrower. 
Section II. 
Notices and Consultations in the Event of Payment Failures 
1. 
Initial Payment Failure. If the Borrower, or the Guarantor on behalf of the 
Borrower, fails to make any payments under the Loan when due, then the Bank 
shall first send a written reminder to the Borrower (with a copy to the Guarantor) 
within five (5) calendar days after the applicable due date of the original debt 
service payment. The Borrower will have an additional ten (10) additional calendar 
days (the expiration of such period, which in any case shall be no less than fifteen 
(15) days after the original due date, the "Consultation Deadline") to consult the 
Bank, remedy the elements which prevented prompt payment, and make the 
-27-
payment in full of the outstanding amount. In its reminder notice to the Borrower, 
the Bank shall clearly identify the Consultation Deadline as well as the final 
deadline date described in Section 11.3 below. The Bank will also send a second 
written reminder to the Borrower (with copy to the Guarantor) if the payment in 
full of the outstanding amount has not been made by the ninth (9th) calendar day 
following the original due date. 
2. 
Failure to Pay by the Consultation Deadline. If the Borrower, or the Guarantor 
on behalf of the Borrower, fails to make payment in full of any outstanding debt 
service amounts by the Consultation Deadline, then the Bank may (a) notify the 
Borrower and the Guarantor of the occurrence of the Borrower's breach of a 
payment obligation, as described in Section 7.02(a) of the General Conditions 
("Failure to Comply with a Payment Obligation"), and (b) instruct the Guarantee 
Account Bank to immediately transfer funds from the Guarantee Account to an 
account specified by the Bank to satisfy such outstanding debt service amounts. 
No further action or consent of the Borrower, the Guarantor or any other party shall 
be required in order for the Bank to provide the foregoing instruction or for the 
Guarantee Account Bank to comply with any such instruction. Once the transfer 
of funds to the Bank has been completed, the Bank, the Borrower and the 
Guarantor will enter into discussions at the highest level to avoid any subsequent 
failures to meet a payment obligation under the Loan. 
3. 
Default. If the Bank shall have delivered the written instruction described in 
Section 11.2 above and nevertheless not received payment in full of all outstanding 
debt service amounts under the Loan by the date that is fifteen (15) calendar days 
after the Consultation Deadline for any reason ("Final Deadline"), then the Bank 
may declare a default under Section 7.02(a) of the General Conditions. If such 
payment is not received by the fourth ( 4th) calendar day following the Consultation 
Deadline, the Borrower, the Bank, and the Guarantor shall immediately hold high-
level discussions in close coordination with the Guarantee Account Bank with a 
view to resolving any outstanding issues and making sure that full payment of all 
outstanding debt service amounts be received by the Bank at the latest by the Final 
Deadline. In the event an amount at least equivalent to the outstanding debt service 
amounts shows on the balance of the Guarantee Account, the Bank undertakes to 
use its best efforts when deciding whether to declare a default under Section 
7.02(a) of the General Conditions to take into account possible difficulties from a 
technical nature which are not attributable to the Borrower or the Guarantor, and 
have affected the execution by the Guarantee Account Bank of the written 
instruction described in Section 11.2 above thereby preventing the payment in full 
of all outstanding debt service amounts from taking place by the Final Deadline. 
Notwithstanding anything contained herein, no provision in this Schedule 4 shall 
be deemed to waive or limit the Bank's rights or remedies with respect to the Loan 
in accordance with the General Conditions. 
-28-
Section III. 
Repayment Account 
1. 
Establishment and Funding. At all times from and after the Effective Date, the 
Borrower shall maintain the Repayment Account with the Repayment Account 
Bank, with the sole purpose of depositing certain revenue from the Levy enacted 
by the Guarantor and collected by the Borrower that will be used to pay debt 
service for the Loan. The Borrower shall cause to be deposited in the Repayment 
Account, on the fifteenth (15th) day of each calendar month, the FCF A 20 / kg 
portion of the Levy collected by the Borrower during the previous month. For the 
avoidance of doubt, the Borrower shall open the Repayment Account with the 
Repayment Account Bank under the Borrower's name and the amounts on deposit 
in the Repayment Account are the property of the Borrower. 
2. 
Records. The Borrower shall maintain a written record showing how the monthly 
amounts transferred to the Repayment Account are calculated and that, for this 
purpose, will record, as a minimum, the monthly quantities exported and the 
corresponding amounts collected. The Borrower shall provide a copy of this record 
to the Bank semi-annually and at any other time promptly upon the Bank's request. 
The Borrower will cause the Repayment Account Bank to provide the Bank with 
periodic statements of account for the Repayment Account, on a monthly basis as 
well as at any time upon the Bank's request, indicating the amount deposited in the 
Repayment Account and a description of the transfers to and from the Repayment 
Account during the applicable period. In addition, the Bank shall have the right, at 
any time, to consult the specific section of the Repayment Account Bank 
accounting records relating to the Repayment Account, including a complete 
history of the previous transactions and related documents. 
3. 
Conversion and Payment. Upon receipt of each semi-annual Bank invoice for the 
payment of debt service, the Borrower or the Guarantor shall instruct the 
Repayment Account Bank to convert the necessary FCF A amounts on deposit in 
the Repayment Account into EUR and make payments directly in EUR to the 
account specified by the Bank. 
4. 
Replenishment of Guarantee Account. The Bank shall have the right, upon 
expiry of the thirty (30) days delay set forth in Section 1.3 above, to unilaterally 
instruct the Repayment Account Bank to use the funds on deposit in the Repayment 
Account to replenish the Guarantee Account up to the required amount under 
Section I above. 
5. 
Other Transfers from Repayment Account. Upon request of the Borrower, the 
Guarantor may request the Bank to instruct the Repayment Account Bank to make 
transfers from the Repayment Account at any time, and the Bank will provide such 
instruction to the Repayment Account Bank as soon as reasonably practicable 
(which shall in no event be later than thirty (30) days after the receipt by the Bank 
of the certification discussed hereafter); provided, however, that the Guarantor 
-29-
shall certify in writing to the Bank that, after giving effect to any such transfer: 
(a) the Borrower is in compliance with the Minimum Ratio and all other 
obligations under this Agreement; (b) the amount deposited in the Repayment 
Account shall not be less than the amount required to meet the expected repayment 
obligations of the Loan for the succeeding six ( 6) month period, and ( c) the 
Guarantee Account is funded to the amount required under Section I above. 
6. 
Repayment Account Agreement. The Repayment Account Agreement will set 
forth the rights and interests of the Bank and the responsibilities of the Repayment 
Account Bank with respect to the Repayment Account, including the rights and 
responsibilities described in Sections III.2 to III.5 above. At all times from and 
after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall comply with its obligations under the 
Repayment Account Agreement and not take any action that would limit or hinder 
any of the Bank's rights under such agreement. 
Section IV. 
Additional Enclave Undertakings 
1. 
2. 
Levy Review. Prior to any modification of the Levy that may adversely affect the 
ability of the Borrower to meet its periodic Loan repayment obligations from funds 
held in the Repayment Account, including, but not limited to, any change in the 
collection procedure or any reduction in the Levy to less than 20 FCF A/kg at any 
time during the Loan, the Borrower and the Guarantor shall consult with the Bank 
and implement alternative credit enhancement measures for the Project 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
Minimum Ratio. 
a. 
At all times during the life of the Loan, except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not permit the ratio of (i) the total amount that 
has transited into the Repayment Account during the period of the calendar 
year immediately preceding the date of any calculation to (ii) the projected 
maximum debt service requirements under the Loan for the immediately 
succeeding calendar year, to be less than one and one-half (1.5) (the 
"Minimum Ratio"). 
b. 
The Bank, on the basis of the statements of account of the Repayment 
Account provided monthly by the Repayment Account Bank as described 
in Section III.2 above, shall calculate the Minimum Ratio annually and 
shall promptly notify the Borrower in the event that the Minimum Ratio is 
less than one and one-half (1.5) at any time. Along with the semi-annual 
Bank invoice for the payment of debt service, the Bank shall also make its 
best efforts to communicate to the Borrower an intermediate projection of 
the Minimum Ratio. 
-30-
3. 
Alternative Revenue Source. In the event that (a) the Minimum Ratio falls below 
one and one-half (1.5) at any time it is calculated by the Bank, or (b) any other 
event occurs that could reasonably be expected to result in the amounts in the 
Repayment Account to be insufficient to meet the expected repayment obligations 
for the Loan, then the Borrower, the Guarantor and the Bank shall undertake high-
level discussions in order for the Borrower to identify to the satisfaction of the 
Bank an alternative source of revenue that may be redirected to the Repayment 
Account in order to satisfy the repayment obligations under the Loan. 
4. 
Withdrawals by Mutual Consent. In addition to the transfers contemplated 
above, withdrawals may also be made from the Guarantee Account or Repayment 
Account at any time by the Bank and the Borrower acting jointly. 
5. 
Copies to Guarantor. The Bank shall concurrently send to the Guarantor all 
invoices, notices, and other communications to be sent by the Bank to the Borrower 
under this Agreement; provided that any failure to send such concurrent copies 
shall not relieve the Borrower of any obligation under this Agreement. 
-31-
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
"ANADER" means Agence Nationale de l'Appui au Developpement Rural, the 
Guarantor's national rural support agency. 
2. 
"AGEDI" means Agence de Gestion des Zones Industrielles, the Guarantor's road 
management agency. 
3. 
"AGEROUTE" means Agence de Gestion des Routes, the Guarantor's road 
management agency 
4. 
"ANDE" means Agence Nationale de !'Environnement, the Guarantor's national 
environmental development agency. 
5. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix 
to the General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud 
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", 
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016. 
6. 
"BCEAO" means Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest, the West-
African states central bank. 
7. 
"BNETD" means Bureau National d 'Etudes Techniques et de Developpement, the 
Guarantor national office of technical studies and development. 
8. 
"Beneficiary" means a farmer or its producer organization, a small or medium 
enterprise, or a cashew processor who will be supported by or who will benefit 
from the Dedicated Financing Facility or the Security Deposit Scheme as 
applicable, and "Beneficiaries" means more than one such Beneficiary. 
9. 
"C138 - Minimum Age Convention" means the International Law Organization 
"Convention Concerning Minimum Age for Admission to Employment", dated 
June 26, 1973. 
10. 
"C182- Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention" means the International Law 
Organization "Convention Concerning the Prohibition and Immediate Action for 
the Elimination of the Worst Forms of Child Labour", dated June 17, 1999. 
11. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement. 
12. 
"CNRA" means Centre National de Recherche Agricole, the Guarantor's national 
agricultural research center. 
-32-
13. 
"Collateral Enhancement Grant" means funds provided to Beneficiaries to be (i) 
used as collateral to obtain a commercial funding and/or (ii) to carry out a series 
of activities under Part 3.2 of the Project. 
14. 
"Collateral Enhancement Grant Agreement" means an agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and each Beneficiary of a Collateral Enhancement 
Grant and referred to in Section LB of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
15. 
"Displaced Persons" means a person who as a result of (i) the involuntary tal<lng 
ofland under the Project is affected in any of the following ways: (a) relocation or 
loss of shelter; (b) loss of assets or access to assets; or ( c) loss of income sources 
or means of livelihood, whether or not the affected person must move to another 
location; or (ii) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and 
protected areas suffers adverse impacts on his or her livelihood. 
16. 
"DOPA" means Direction des Organisations Professionnelles de I 'Agriculture the 
Guarantor's directorate for agricultural professional organizations. 
17. 
"ESMF" or "Environmental and Social Management Framework" means the 
framework disclosed in the Borrower's territory and on the Bank's website on 
April 4, 2017, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, setting out modalities 
to be followed in assessing the potential adverse environmental impact, including 
impact on natural habitats, physical cultural resources, associated with activities to 
be implemented under the Project, and the measures to be taken to offset, reduce, 
or mitigate such adverse impact. 
18. 
"FCF A" means the West African CF A franc currency. 
19. 
"FIRCA" means Fonds Interprofessionnel pour la Recherche et le Conseil 
Agricoles, the Guarantor's inter-professional fund for agricultural research and 
advisory services. 
20. 
"Guarantee Account" means the EUR-denominated dedicated reserve account to 
be established by the Borrower with the Guarantee Account Bank, into which the 
Borrower will cause to be deposited certain amounts as a debt service reserve for 
the benefit of the Bank, as described in Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
21. 
"Guarantee Account Bank" means a creditworthy commercial bank of good repute 
located in a major international financial center, which shall be satisfactory to the 
Bank to act as the deposit account bank for the Guarantee Account. 
22. 
"Guarantee Account Security Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
among the Borrower, the Guarantee Account Bank and the Bank, as described in 
Article 4.0l(e) of this Agreement. 
-33-
23. 
"Guarantee Agreement" means the agreement entered into between the Guarantor 
and the Bank to unconditionally guarantee, as primary obligor the due and punctual 
payment of all Loan Payments and the punctual performance of all the other 
obligations of the Borrower set forth or referred to in this Agreement. 
24. 
"Guarantor" means the Republic of Cote d'Ivoire. 
25. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project 
Financing", dated July 14, 2017. 
26. 
"IGF" means Inspection Generale des Finances, the Guarantor's institution of 
internal control under MEF. 
27. 
"IPMP" or "Integrated Pest Management Plan" means the plan disclosed in the 
Borrower's territory and on the Bank's website on April 4, 2017, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank, providing guidance on safe usage of pesticides 
and other chemical products in the areas where the Project will be implemented. 
28. 
"Levy" means the levy on the export of raw cashew nuts enacted by the Guarantor 
and collected by the Borrower that will be used to pay debt service for the Loan. 
29. 
"Matching Grant" means a grant provided to a Beneficiary under Part 3.2 of the 
Project to be matched by a PFI to allow said Beneficiary to carry out a series of 
activities. 
30. 
"Matching Grant Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the Beneficiary for the financing of Matching Grants and referred to 
in Section LB of Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
31. 
"MEF" means Ministere de l 'Economie et des Finances, the Guarantor's ministry 
in charge of economy and finance. 
32. 
"MIM" means Ministere de l'Industrie et des Mines, the Guarantor's ministry in 
charge of industry and mines. 
33. 
"Ministry of Budget" means the Guarantor's ministry in charge of budget. 
34. 
"Operating Costs" means costs included in the Annual Work Program and budget 
acceptable to the Bank which includes incremental costs of Project implementation 
such as vehicle operation and maintenance including for fuel, community, 
insurance, banking charges, rental, office supplies, consumables and maintenance, 
utilities, document production, travel costs and per diem for Project related travel 
and accommodation and subsistence allowances for authorized travel, but 
excluding salaries of the Guarantor's civil servants. 
-34-
35. 
"Partner Financial Institutions" or "PFI" means financial institutions that will 
match the grants funded through the Dedicated Financing Facility. 
36. 
"PNRA" means Programme National de Recherche sur /'Anacardier, the 
Guarantor's national cashew research program. 
37. 
"Preparation Advance" means the advance referred to in Section 2.07 (a) of the 
General Conditions, granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter 
agreement signed on behalf of the Bank on August 30, 2016 and on behalf of the 
Borrower on September 7, 2016. 
38. 
"Procurement Regulations" means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix 
to the General Conditions, the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF 
Borrowers", dated July 2016, revised November 2017. 
39. 
"Repayment Account" means the designated FCFA-denominated account into 
which the Borrower will deposit certain revenue from the Levy that will be used 
to pay debt service under the Loan, as described in Section III of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
40. 
"Repayment Account Bank" means a designated financial institution located in 
Cote d'Ivoire, which shall be satisfactory to the Bank to act as the deposit account 
bank for the Repayment Account. 
41. 
"Repayment Account Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into among 
the Borrower, the Repayment Account Bank and the Bank, as described in Article 
4.0l(g) of this Agreement, or any other satisfactory assurances to the Bank with 
respect to its rights in connection with the Repayment Account provided by the 
Repayment Account Bank, in place of such agreement. 
42. 
"RAP" or "Resettlement Action Plan" or "RAP" means a resettlement action plan 
to be prepared by the Borrower in accordance with the procedures and 
requirements under the RPF, setting out, for a particular activity, actions and 
measures for compensation and resettlement of Displaced Persons, including the 
magnitude 
of displacement, 
proposed 
compensation 
and 
resettlement 
arrangements, budget and cost estimates, and sources of funding, together with 
adequate institutional, monitoring and reporting arrangements capable of ensuring 
proper implementation of, and regular feedback on compliance with, the RAP, as 
such plan may be revised from time to time with prior written approval of the Bank; 
and "RAPs" means, collectively, all such RAP. 
43. 
"RPF" means Resettlement Policy Framework or the document prepared by the 
Borrower in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank and disclosed in the 
Borrower's territory and on the Bank's website on April 4, 2017, outlining the 
-35-
policies and procedures to be implemented in the event that specific activities 
implemented under the Project have potentially negative impacts on the 
livelihoods, assets and land of the affected population including their involuntary 
resettlement, as the said framework may be amended and/or supplemented from 
time to time with the prior written consent of the Bank, and such term includes any 
schedules to such document. 
44. 
"Safeguard Documents" means the ESMF, the IPMP and the RPF as well as any 
other environmental and social safeguard instrument that may be required under 
the Project Implementation Manual for the implementation of the Project. 
45. 
"Security Deposit" means proceeds of the Security Deposit Scheme made 
available to Beneficiaries under a Security Deposit Agreement to guarantee loans 
issued by eligible PFis. 
46. 
"Security Deposit Agreement" means an agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and each Beneficiary of a Security Deposit and referred to in Section LB 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
4 7. 
"Training" means learning programs or courses in institutes/schools in the territory 
of the Guarantor and abroad, workshops, lectures, seminars, courses, and 
coursework and study tours costs associated with training, as well as travels costs 
and per diem incurred by trainers and trainees, rental of training facilities, training 
materials and costs related to course preparation and implementation. 
48. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the 
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the 
date of the Loan Agreement" in the General Conditions. 
49. 
"Subproject" means a small-scale project to be implemented within the framework 
by the Project by a PIA in accordance with the terms described in the PIM. 
50. 
"Subproject Agreement" means an agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the relevant Project Implementation Agency. 
