OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
国日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日国日日日日国国日日日日国日日日国国
日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日
LOAN NUMBER 8773-AO
Loan Agreement
(Additional Financing for the Local Development Project)
betMeen
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
snd
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCT10N
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
February 06 
,2018
国国日国国国国国国国国国日日日日日日日日日日日日園日日国日日日日日国国園国園国国国国日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日国日日日■ ■■国国園■■国国
国日国国国国国国日国国日日日日日
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8773-AO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
Fphrtj;j[V 06 
9 
2018, between REPUBLIC OF
ANGOLA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing additional financing for
activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE 11 -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the ten'ns and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement the amount of seventy million Dollars,
($70,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided,
however, that the interest payable shall in no event be less than zero percent (0%)
per annum; and provided furthen-nore that, upon a Conversion of all or any portion
of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during
the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the
relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when
due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty Q 0) days, then the
-2-
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section
3.02(e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; and (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the
Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions
and the Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that the
Project Implementing Entity's Legislation has been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability
of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and the
Project Implementing Entity.
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the Subsidiary
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Project
Implementing Entity and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the Project
Implementing Entity in accordance with its terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its minister responsible for finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministrio das Finanqas
Largo da Mutamba
Luanda
Repiblica de Angola
Facsimile:
+244-222-33-8548
OP7-
-4-
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
AGREED at Luanda, Republic of Angola, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
By:
Authorized Representative
Name: 
"X4C 
__ 
__
Title: 
WNrilW 
PA?4AA4#
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By:
Authorized Rpsentative
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve access of poor households to basic
services and economic opportunities; and (b) to enhance local institutional capacities
among the Borrower's municipalities.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: 
Local Social and Economic Infrastructure
I. 
Provision of support to Selected Municipalities, in the form of Municipal Grants,
for the construction and rehabilitation of basic and social infrastructure, including
goods and related essential services.
2. 
Implementation of a Productive Safety Net Program (Cash for Work) in Selected
Municipalities for eligible Beneficiaries to provide them with temporary income
support while they transition to more permanent sources of income, through the
provision of Labor Payments.
3. 
Provision of Direct Cash Transfers to selected vulnerable households in Selected
Municipalities
Part B: 
Local Economic Development
Provision of support to improve the business development skills of selected
producer groups and their participation in local markets, such program to include:
I. 
Provision of technical assistance to Municipal Administrations and Municipal
Consultative Councils to prepare strategies for the coordination of their economic
development and business support activities.
2. 
Provision of technical assistance to selected provinces to conduct sector and value
chain studies.
3. 
Preparation of the Matching Grants Manual, and provision of Training required for
said purpose.
4. 
Provision of Matching Grants to selected Beneficiaries for Local Economic
Development Sub-Projects, for the improvement of the economic development of
Selected Municipalities.
5. 
Provision of technical assistance and Training to local producer groups and
business development service providers to enhance their productivity and improve
-6-
their processes, product quality, service delivery and business management and
marketing capabilities.
6. 
Carrying out of workshops for government personnel, local producers and business
leaders aimed at fostering partnerships and sharing of information on
microfinance.
7. 
Promoting the productive inclusion of poor and vulnerable households, through:
(a) the carrying out of capacity building activities on soft skills, basic financial
management, financial literacy and entrepreneurship, including the preparation of
simplified business plans; (b) the provision of Productive Inclusion Grants to
selected Beneficiaries; and (c) provision of technical assistance and extension
services.
Part C: Local Institutional Stren2thenin2
1 .
Municipal Planning and Management
Enhancing the capacity of local public entities and civil society in participatory
planning, management and monitoring of basic public service delivery and
expenditure management; such program to consist of the following:
(a) 
provision 
of 
technical 
assistance 
and 
Training 
to 
Municipal
Administrations and Municipal Consultative Councils to strengthen their
ability to prepare, 
implement 
and monitor and evaluate 
Local
Development Plans and municipal investment plans to develop and
implement participatory development planning, investment execution and
monitoring and public expenditure management mechanisms, consistent
with the Borrower's Participatory Investment Cycle; and
(b) 
provision of technical assistance and Training to the Borrower's municipal
public health and education service providers to enhance their technical
and administrative capacity in the provision of public services.
2. 
Project Management, Local Development Policy, 
Implementation, and
Monitoring
(a) 
Provision of technical assistance and Training for staff of the Project
Implementing Entity and of other public agencies to: (i) further their skills
in local development and participatory governance; and (ii) facilitate their
implementation of the Safeguard Documents under the Project.
(b) 
Carrying out of an institutional review of the Project Implementing Entity
with a view to its transformation into a local development agency.
-7-
(c) 
Monitoring and evaluation of GAAP implementation by Borrower's
public agencies and civil society.
(d) 
Management, monitoring and evaluation of the Project.
(e) 
Development of a grievance redress mechanism to get feedback from local
populations on the implementation of the different activities.
3. 
Provision of Support to ADECOS
Provision of support to ADECOS for the mapping of existing social services and
the referral of potential beneficiaries to those services in Selected Municipalities,
including the provision of training and equipment for ADECOS and supervisors,
the development of protocols and tools for registering potential beneficiaries and
Operating Costs for intermediation services.
OLi
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
National Level
(a) 
The Borrower shall maintain the National Committee, throughout the
period of Project implementation, with composition, functions and
resources, acceptable to the Bank, to be responsible for providing policy
and strategic guidance for, and coordination of activities under the Project.
(b) 
The Borrower shall ensure that the National Committee is headed by its
minister of state administration, 
and comprised of representatives
including the Borrower's Ministries responsible for finance, territorial
administration and rural development.
2. 
Provincial Level
The Borrower shall maintain the Provincial Council, throughout the period of
Project implementation, with mandate, composition (including representatives of
each of the Borrower's provinces and of the Project Implementing Entity) and
resources acceptable to both the Bank and the Borrower, to be responsible for
coordinating the allocation of resources for the Local Development Subprojects
and Project activities to be carried out within each of the Borrower's provinces and
municipalities.
3. 
Municipal Level
The Borrower shall ensure that each Municipality shall maintain throughout the
period of Project implementation, with terms of reference, composition (or
staffing) and resources acceptable to both the Bank and the Borrower:
(a) 
a municipal administration (staffed by qualified professionals), to be
responsible for the development and implementation of the municipality's
Local Development Plan ("Municipal Administration");
(b) 
a municipal consultative council comprised of representatives of the
municipality's 
civil 
society, 
to 
assist 
the 
relevant 
Municipal
Administration 
in developing, 
implementing, and monitoring and
evaluating the implementation of its Local Development Plan, consistent
with the Participatory Investment Cycle ("Municipal Consultative
Council"); and
-9-
(c) 
an operation and maintenance user committee, comprised of users of
infrastructure developed under the municipality's Local Development
Subproject, to be responsible for the oversight of the operation and
maintenance of such infrastructure ("Operation and Maintenance User
Committee").
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds
of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity on a grant basis, under an
agreement (the "Subsidiary Agreement") between the Borrower and the Project
Implementing Entity under terms and conditions approved by the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such a
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish
the purposes of the Financing. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or
any of its provisions.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D. 
Safeguards
1 .
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with the
ESMF, RPF, and IPPF, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing,
shall not amend or waive any provision of the aforementioned documents.
2. 
Where required in terms of the ESMF, IPPF or the RPF, as the case may be, the
Borrower shall proceed to have an ESMP, an IPP or a RAP, as the case may be:
(a) 
prepared in accordance with the ESMF, IPPF or RPF, as the case may be;
(b) 
submitted to the Bank for review and approval, and for public
consultations as required,
(c) 
all applicable resettlement measures set forth in the applicable RAP shall
have been fully executed, including the full payment of compensation
prior to displacement and/or the provision of relocation assistance to all
displaced persons; and
(d) 
thereafter adopted on a timely basis for the purposes of implementation of
the Project.
-10-
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure or caused to be ensured, that the terms of reference for
any consultancy in respect of any Project activity shall be satisfactory to the Bank
following its review thereof and, to that end, such terms of reference shall duly
incorporate the requirements of the Bank's Safeguard Policies then in force, as
applied to the advice conveyed through such technical assistance.
4. 
Without limitation upon its other reporting obligations under this Agreement, the
Borrower shall collect, compile 
and furnish to the Bank on a quarterly basis,
reports on the status of compliance with the ESMF, the RPF, the IPPF, the ESMPs,
IPPs and RAPs as the case may be, given details of: (a) measures taken in
furtherance of the above; (b) conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to
interfere with the smooth implementation of the Project; and (c) remedial measures
taken or required to be taken to address such conditions.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than one month after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section 11, the Borrower shall
ensure that interim unaudited financial reports for the Project, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank, are prepared and furnished to the Bank not later
than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter. Each such report
shall cover the period of such calendar quarter.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
4. 
For purposes of this Section B, the Borrower shall ensure that auditors are
employed not later than three (3) months after the Effective Date, in accordance
with the provisions of Section III of this Schedule 2.
-11-
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-Consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive
Bidding; (b) Shopping; (c) Direct Contracting; (d) Well-established Private Sector
Procurement Methods or Commercial Practices which have been found acceptable
to the Bank; and (e) Community Participation procedures which have been found
acceptable to the Bank.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following
methods, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
-12-
Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; 
(c) Least-Cost Selection; 
(d) 
Selection 
based on Consultants'
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) 
Well-
established Private Sector Procurement Methods or Commercial Practices which
have been found acceptable to the Bank; (g) Procedures set forth in paragraphs
5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of Individual
Consultants; and (h) Single-source procedures for the Selection of Individual
Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"Disbursement Guidelines for Investment Project Financing" dated February
2017, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
66-~
-13-
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) 
financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, Non- 
16,800,000
Consultant's Services,
consultant services, 
100%
Training and Operating
Costs under the Project
(other than those covered
by Categories (3) and (4)
below)
(2) Labor Payments and Direct 
2,700,000
Cash Transfers under Parts 
100%
A.2 and A.3 of the Project
(3) Goods, works, Non- 
39,975,000
Consultant Services and
consultant services required 
100%
for Municipal Grants under
Part A.1 of the Project and
Matching Grants under Part
B.4 of the Project
(4) Goods, works, Non- 
10,350,000
Consultant's Services and 
100%
consultants' services for
Productive Inclusion Grants
under Part B.7 of the
Project
(5) Front-end Fee 
175,000 
Amount payable
pursuant to Section
2.03 of this
Agreement in
accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of
the General
Conditions
(6) Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
0 
Amount due pursuant
Rate Collar premium 
to Section 2.08(c) of
this Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
70,000,000
-14-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $14,000,000 may be
made for payments made prior to this date but on or after May 30, 2017,
for Eligible Expenditures under Category (1) and (3); or
(b) 
under Category (2) until: (i) the Payment Agents referred to under Section
F.2 of the Project Agreement have been hired in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank; and (ii) the Productive Safety Net and Direct Cash Transfer
Manual has been adopted in manner satisfactory to the Bank; or
(c) 
under Category (4) until the Productive Inclusion Manual referred to in
Section .B of the Project Agreement has been adopted in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank.
2. 
The Closing Date is February 28, 2020.
Section V. 
Other Undertakin2s
The Borrower shall, not later than January 31 of each calendar year, throughout
the period of Project implementation, provide to the Bank, evidence in form and
substance acceptable to the Bank, showing that the Borrower has budgeted and
allocated to the Project Implementing Entity counterpart funds in amounts required
for Project implementation during said calendar year.
-15-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each March 15 and September 15
Beginning September 15, 2022, 
2%
through March 15, 2047
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
-16-
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
-17-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1 
"ADECOS" means Agentes Comunitdrios de Desenvolvimento Sanitdrio, the
Recipient's Health and Community Development Agents.
2. 
"Affected Persons" means persons who, on account of an involuntary taking of
land under the Project, would have their: (a) standard of living adversely affected;
or (b) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and
grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset 
acquired or possessed,
temporarily or permanently; or (c) access to productive assets adversely affected,
temporarily or permanently; or (d) business, occupation, work or place of residence
or habitat adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; and "Affected Person"
means any of the Affected Persons.
3. 
"Annual Work Plan and Budget" means the annual work plan and budget for the
Project prepared by the Project Implementing Entity and approved by the Bank, in
accordance with the provisions of Section I.C of Schedule 
1 to the Project
Agreement.
4. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006, and revised in January 2011.
5. 
"Bank Safeguard Policies" means the Bank's operational policies and procedures
set forth in the Bank's Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04, 4.09, 4.10,
4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37, 7.50 and 7.60 as said manual is published under
www.WorldBank.orp/opmanual
6. 
"Beneficiary" means for the purposes of: (a) Matching Grants under Part B.4 of
the Project, a privately owned legal entity which satisfies the eligibility criteria
referred to in Section I.G.2 of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement and is a
Borrower of a Matching Grant; and (b) Productive Inclusion Grants under Part B.7
of the Project, an individual that is eligible to benefit from Productive Inclusion
Grants that meets the poverty criteria set forth in the Productive Inclusion Manual;
and (c) Labor Payments and Direct Cash Transfers under Parts A.2 and A.3 of the
Project, a household eligible to participate and registered for that purpose, all in
accordance with the Productive Safety Net and Direct Cash Transfer Manual.
7. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
-18-
8. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
9. 
"Direct Cash Transfer" means the cash benefit to be made to Beneficiaries under
the Direct Cash Transfer Component under Part A.3 of the Project and elaborated
further in the Productive Safety Net and Direct Cash Transfers Manual.
10. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" and the acronym "ESMF"
mean the policy and legal framework satisfactory to the Bank, prepared by the
Project Implementing Entity, dated January 28, 2009, updated and published on
May 25, 2017, which sets out the objectives, policies, monitoring procedures, time
schedules and other environmental and social protection provisions to: (a) prevent
and mitigate potential environmental effects under the Project; (b) monitor the
environmental and social effects of the Project; (c) prevent and mitigate potential
adverse effects to forests; (d) provide pest control measures; and (e) prevent and
mitigate overfishing, in the carrying out of the Project.
11. 
"Environmental Management Plan and the acronym "EMP" means each plan to be
prepared in accordance with the provisions of the ESMF, for a Local Development
Subproject or a Local Economic Development Subproject, setting out the measures
to be taken for the avoidance, minimization, mitigation and off setting of potential
adverse environmental and social impacts of such Local Development Subproject
or Local Economic Development Subproject (as the case may be).
12. 
"GAAP" means Governance and Accountability Action Plan.
13. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
14. 
"Grant Selection Committee" means each committee to be established by the
Project Implementing Entity pursuant to Sections I.G.1(c) and I.H.2 of the Project
Agreement, to be responsible for the review of Matching Grants and Productive
Inclusion Grants.
15. 
"Indigenous Peoples Action Plan" means each plan to be prepared in accordance
with the IPPF for a Local Development Subproject or a Local Economic
Development Subproject, setting out the technical and administrative measures,
monitoring and evaluation guidelines, legal framework and culturally appropriate
actions to be taken for the protection of the dignity, human rights and cultural
uniqueness of Borrower's indigenous ethnic minorities, tribal groups, and/or
scheduled tribes in the carrying out of the Local Development Subproject or Local
Economic Development Subproject (as the case may be).
66-
-19-
16. 
"Indigenous Peoples Policy Framework" and the acronym "IPPF" mean the
Borrower's policy and legal framework, prepared by the Project Implementing
Entity, dated April 13, 2009, updated and published on May 25, 2017, satisfactory
to the Bank, to protect the dignity, human rights and cultural uniqueness of
Borrower's indigenous ethnic minorities, tribal groups, and/or scheduled tribes in
the carrying out of the Project.
17. 
"Labor Payments" means the cash benefit to be paid to Beneficiaries, as temporary
income support, for the carrying out of activities under the Productive Safety Net
Program, referred to in Part A.2 of the Project and elaborated further in the
Productive Safety Nets and Direct Cash Transfers Manual.
18. 
"Local Development Plan" means for each municipality the local development
plan, including a medium-term development vision for such municipality,
prepared in accordance with the Participatory Investment Cycle.
19. 
"Local Economic Development Subproject" means a specific development project
under Part B.4 of the Project to be carried out by a Beneficiary utilizing the
proceeds of a Matching Grant.
20. 
"Matching Grant" means the goods, works and consultants 'services to be provided
by the Project Implementing Entity out of the proceeds of the Loan to a Beneficiary
for a Local Economic Development Subproject, in accordance with the provisions
of Section I.H. of the Project Agreement.
21. 
"Matching Grant Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the
Project Implementing Entity and a Beneficiary providing for a Matching Grant in
accordance with the provisions of Section I.H.2 of the Project Agreement.
22. 
"Matching Grants Manual" means the manual developed by the Project
Implementing Entity and approved by the Bank, all in accordance with the
provisions of Section B.1(c) of the Project Agreement, as the same may be revised
from time to time with the prior written approval of the Bank.
23. 
"Ministry of Territorial Administration" 
mean the Borrower's 
Ministry
responsible for territorial planning and any successor thereto.
24. 
"Municipal Administration" means for each Municipality, the administration
referred to in Section I.A.3(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
25. 
"Municipal Consultative Council" means, for each Municipality, the council
referred to in Section I.A.3(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
26. 
"Municipal Economic Development Strategy" means each strategy prepared for a
municipality under Part B.1 of the Project.
-20-
27. 
"Municipal Grant" means a grant to be made by FAS out of the proceeds of the
Loan to a Selected Municipality for the financing of goods, works, consultants'
services, and Training needed for the carrying out of construction and/or
rehabilitation of basic and social infrastructure activities, following the guidelines
included in the Project's Operational Manual.
28. 
"National Committee" means the committee established by the Borrower pursuant
to the Borrower's decree number 44/1994, dated October 28, 1994, and referred to
in Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
29. 
"Operating Costs" means reasonable recurrent Project expenditures, based on an
annual budget previously approved by the Bank, that would not have been incurred
by the Borrower absent the Project, on the account of: (a) office utilities and
communications expenses; (b) office rental expenses; (c) Project's vehicles
maintenance costs, fuel and spare parts; (d) travel expenses and per diems for
official Project staff (excluding salaries of Borrower's government officials and/or
civil servants); (e) operation and maintenance of office equipment; (f) insurance
costs; (g) bank charges pertaining to the designated account for the Loan; (h)
routine translation of Project related documentation; (i) local advertising costs
pertaining to the Project; and () salaries of the Project Implementing Entity's non-
intellectual staff (excluding salaries of Borrower's government officials and/or
civil servants); all as needed for the implementation and supervision of the Project;
30. 
"Operation and Maintenance User Committee" means each committee referred to
in Section I A.3(c) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
31. 
"Operational Manual" means the manual developed and adopted by the Project
Implementing Entity under the Original Project, dated December 17, 2009, revised
and updated and referred to in Section B.1(a) of the Project Agreement.
32. 
"Original Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement for a Project between the
Borrower and the Bank, dated March 16, 2011, as amended to the date of this
Agreement (Loan No. 4689).
33. 
"Original Project" means the Project described in Schedule 1 to the Original Loan
Agreement.
34. 
"Participatory Investment Cycle" means the Project Implementing Entity's process
for local development planning for each of the participating municipalities, set
forth in the respective Local Development Plan, and consisting of the following 5
stages, carried out in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank: (a)
establishment of an institutional structure for such planning; (b) mapping of the
municipality's geographic and socioeconomic profile; (c) preparation of a Local
Development Plan for the municipality, with a medium-term development vision,
strategy, targets and investments; (d) execution of an agreed program of municipal
-21-
investments; and (e) monitoring and evaluation of the process, and dissemination
of lessons learned.
35. 
"Payment Agents" means an agent selected in accordance with the provisions of
Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement responsible for administering the
Productive Safety Net Program (Labor Payments and Direct Cash Transfers) in the
Selected Municipalities.
36. 
"PCU" means the Project coordination unit established within FAS and referred to
in Section L.A of the Project Agreement.
37. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in
October, 2006 (revised July 2014).
38. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
April 4, 2009, revised on May 30, 2017, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the
Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said
paragraphs.
39. 
"Productive Inclusion Grants" means the goods, works and consultants' services
to be provided by the Project Implementing Entity out of the proceeds of the Loan
to a Beneficiary for productive inclusion activities (as defined in the Grants
Manual), in accordance with the provisions of Section 1.1 of the Project Agreement.
40. 
"Grant Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the Project
Implementing Entity and a Beneficiary providing for a Productive Inclusion Grant
in accordance with the provisions of Section 1.1 of the Project Agreement.
41. 
"Productive Inclusion Grants Manual" means the manual for the implementation
of Part B.7 of the Project and referred to in Section B.1(d) of the Project
Agreement.
42. 
"Productive Safety Net Program" means the Borrower's program aimed at
supporting eligible households in the Recipient's rural and urban areas, through the
provision of timely and predictable supplemental income in return for their
participation in cash for work activities (Cash for Work).
43. 
"Productive Safety Net and Direct Cash Transfers Manual" means the manual for
the implementation of Part A.2 and A.3 of the Project and referred to in Section
B. 1(b) of the Project Agreement.
44. 
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and the Project
Implementing Entity, of same date as this Agreement, as the same may be amended
-22-
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement.
45. 
"Project Implementing Entity" and the acronym "FAS" mean Fundo de Apoio
Social, the Borrower's Social Action Fund, established pursuant to the Project
Implementing Entity's Legislation and operating under the laws of the Borrower.
46. 
"Project Implementing Entity's Legislation" means the Borrower's Decree
Number 44/94 dated October 28, 1994, as amended by Decree Number 04/96,
dated January 19, 1996, and by Decree Number 22/0 1, dated April 6, 2001, as the
same may be further amended from time to time.
47. 
"Project Manuals" means collectively the Operational Manual, the Productive
Safety Net and Direct Cash Transfers Manual, the Matching Grants Manual and
the Productive Inclusion Grants Manual.
48. 
"Provincial Council" means the Borrower's provincial council established
pursuant to Law 2/2007, dated January 3, 2007, and referred to in Section I.A.2 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
49. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" means each plan to be prepared in accordance with the
RPF for a Local Development Subproject or a Local Economic Development
Subproject, setting out the principles, procedures, the time schedule governing
acquisition of rights to land, resettlement and compensation of Affected Persons
under the Local Development Subproject or Local Economic Development
Subproject (as the case may be), as well as reporting and monitoring arrangements
to ensure compliance with said plan.
50. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" and the acronym "RPF" mean the policy and
legal framework for compensation of Affected Persons, satisfactory to the Bank,
in connection with the carrying out of the Project, prepared by the Project
Implementing Entity, dated January 28, 2009, updated and published on May 25,
2017.
51. 
"Safeguards Documents" means collectively the ESMF, the EMPs, the IPPF and
the IPAPs.
52. 
"Sector and Value Chain Study" means each study carried out under Part B.2 of
the Project.
53. 
"Selected Municipalities" means the Borrower's municipalities of Buco Zau,
Tomboco, Bula Atumba, Cacuaco, Muconda, Luacano, Bundas, Luau, Cacuso,
Quela, Lucala, Uige, Catabola, Cuchi, Longonjo, Ucuma, Huambo, Quilengues,
Cacula, Matala, Lubango, Curoca, Camucuio, Virei, Bibala, T6mbwa, Chongoroi,
-23-
Caimbambo, Benguela, Seles, Conda, Cela, Amboim, Cambulo, and any other
municipality within the Borrower's territory selected in agreement with the Bank.
54. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section .B of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the
proceeds of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity.
55. 
"Training" means reasonable expenditures, based on an annual budget previously
approved by the Bank, (other than those for consultants' services) incurred by the
Borrower, to finance transportation costs and per diem of trainers and trainees,
rental of training and workshop facilities; and acquisition of training equipment
and material under the Project.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement
(the "Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from
a date sixty (60) days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the
respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable
semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 2.04."
6k
