OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8903-AR
Loan Agreement
(Additional Financing for the Children and Youth Protection Project)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing additional financing for the Original
Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree
as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of four hundred fifty million United
States Dollars ($450,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through
a Currency Conversion ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I
to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower's Representative for purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is its Minister of Treasury
or its Undersecretary of International Financial Relations.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March I and September I in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE M -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower, through ANSES, shall carry out the Project, all in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower's Representative is
its Minister of Treasury.
5.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower's address is:
Ministry of Treasury
Hip6lito Yrigoyen 250
C1086AAB
Buenos Aires, Argentina; and
(b) the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
E-mail:
secpriv@mecon.gob.ar
5.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
E-mail:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
jhentschel@worldbank.org
64145(MCI)
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
twaws
Title:'W N;Sn) p6 j3PtG sDA
Date: 
32*I
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name:
Title: 
71
Date:
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) expand coverage of the Family Allowances
Programs; and (ii) improve transparency of social protection programs implemented by ANSES.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: AUH Program Financing
Provision of AUH Grants to AUH Recipients.
Part 2: Closing the coverage gaps of the AI}H Program
2.1. 
(a) 
Collection of data from birth certificates of children whose parents may be eligible
to receive AUH Grants, including: (i) the preparation of an action plan containing
the list of children with missing family information in ANSES ADP, the
methodology to collect said missing information, timeline for implementation of
said plan and expected targets; and (ii) the update of ANSES ADP through the
transferring of the data from birth certificates mentioned herein to ANSES by each
Participating Registry; and
(b) 
carrying out of coordination activities with the Borrower's provincial ministries of
Education, to complete the reporting on co-responsibilities for children and youth
under the AUH for whom there is no evidence of compliance of said co-
responsibilities on ANSES's records.
2.2. 
Gathering missing information of AUH beneficiaries, through:
(a) 
the provision of support to Selected Municipalities to: (i) develop a municipal
territorial action plan to reach families with children and youth with no evidence
of compliance of AUH co-responsibilities on ANSES's records, and those that
were not identified through Part 2.1 of the Project; and (ii) implement the pertinent
PAT, including, inter alia, the carrying out of field work to collect information
through home visits using the address information on record, if available, and
completing a Ficha Social; and
(b) 
the carrying out of activities to support the field work mentioned in paragraph (a)
(ii) herein, including, inter alia: (i) the carrying out of communication campaigns
and preparation of dissemination materials; (ii) the installation of kiosks in key
spots, such as in hospitals and public locations; and (iii) the provision of ANSES'
mobile units with connectivity.
2.3. 
Improving access to AUH for indigenous populations, through the implementation of
specific actions, as described in the NIPP, to reach out to indigenous communities
including, inter alia: (a) the design of special field arrangements and management of
benefits and services in indigenous communities' areas; (b) the carrying out of training
workshops for indigenous leaders on social security topics; (c) the provision of training to
allow indigenous communities to access ANSES' information and procedures remotely;
and (d) the dissemination of information related to the Project in indigenous languages,
including contents in indigenous radios programs and non-indigenous programs that reach
indigenous community areas, as well as in any other type of suitable telecommunication.
Part 3: Institutional Strengthening of ANSES on Information Procedures and Transparency and
Proiect Mananement
3.1. 
Carrying out of activities to improve information of management procedures and
transparency, including:
(a) 
the development of a protocol and related software for a systemic exchange of
information among ANSES, RENAPER and the provincial civil registries; (b) the
carrying out of training of provincial civil registries staff; (c) the acquisition of
goods to strengthen the information technology capacity of Participating Registries
to support activities under Part 2.1 of the Project; (d) the design of mechanisms for
direct verification of compliance of co-responsibilities under the AUH, including
the improvement of information flow among ANSES, MDS and the provincial
Ministries of Health and Education; (e) the provision of support to improve
ANSES' grievance redress mechanism and citizen participation; (f) the carrying
out of data exchange with other public stakeholders at the federal and provincial
levels; (g) the carrying out of studies and preparation of publications, on social
security topics; (h) the carrying out of dissemination events and workshops to
improve transparency and access to information on the Borrower's social security
programs; (i) the implementation of mechanisms to improve the verification of
compliance of co-responsibilities under the AUH, through information technology
applications that can be operated directly by AUH Recipients; and (j) the
development and operation of an early alert system directed to Provinces, to avoid
the suspension of benefits to AUH Recipients.
3.2. 
The provision of support to the ANSES PMT, including the carrying out of Project audits.
Part 4: Institutional Strengthenina. of the Ministry of Social Development and Project
Management
4.1. 
Strengthening the MDS's capacity on planning, budgeting and implementation of social
protection programs and services, including: (a) the development of an integrated social
protection network to promote the coordination of social protection programs and services
of the Borrower's national and sub-national governments; (b) the improvement of the
design and the operational functions of MDS' programs and services; (c) the development
and implementation of a plan for continuous training of civil servants; and (d) the provision
of support to the MDS PMU.
4.2. 
(a) 
The development of tools and instruments to collect and analyze data on MDS'
programs and social policies; and (b) the strengthening of MDS's capacity on
monitoring and evaluation of social protection policies and programs to generate
evidence-based recommendations and guidelines, including, inter alia, the
carrying out of an impact evaluation of AUH and evaluations of other social
programs.
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arraneements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements and Operational Manual
1. 
The Borrower, through ANSES, shall: (i) operate and maintain within ANSES, during the
execution of the Project, a Project management team (ANSES PMT) with functions and
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, to coordinate, evaluate and manage Project
implementation; and (ii) staff said team with a coordinator, technical experts, and other
personnel, all in number and with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank.
2. 
(a) 
Without limitation to the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the
Borrower, through ANSES, shall carry out the Project in accordance with an
Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, containing, inter alia
(i) 
the terms of reference and functions and responsibilities of the personnel
of the ANSES PMT;
(ii) 
(A) the criteria for the identification, registration and selection of AUH
Recipients; (B) the requirements to be fulfilled by AUH Recipients under
the AUH; (C) the mechanisms for verification of compliance with AUH
conditions and co-responsibilities;
(iii) 
the procedures for the procurement of goods and services, as well as the
procedures for financial management, audit requirements under the
Project;
(iv) 
the indicators to be used in the monitoring and evaluation of the Project
(including the Disbursement-Linked Indicators);
(v) 
the disbursement arrangements of Loan proceeds, including the
reimbursement mechanisms for the AUH Grants; and
(vi) 
the National Indigenous Peoples Plan (NIPP).
(b) 
In case of any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and those of the
Operational Manual, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
B. 
Safeguards
The Borrower, through ANSES and MDS, shall carry out the Project in accordance with
the NIPP.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
The Borrower, through ANSES, shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than
forty-five days after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar semester.
Section m. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in
accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible Expenditures; and (b) pay: (i)
the Front-end Fee; and (ii) each Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar premium; in the
amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category of
the following table:
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) AUH Grants 
448,875,000 
100% of the amount of each
AUH 
Grant 
(subject 
to
paragraph B. I and 2 below)
(2) Front-end Fee 
1,125,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 
2.03 
of 
this
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions
(3) 
Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount 
due 
pursuant 
to
Interest Rate Collar premium 
Section 4.05 (c) of the General
Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
450,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made for payments
made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed $90,000,000 equivalent may be made for payments made prior to the Signature
Date (but in any case, within twelve months prior to the Signature Date), for Eligible
Expenditures, provided that the pertinent obligations/conditions set forth in this Agreement
and in the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, as applicable to each Eligible
Expenditure, have been complied with in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
2. 
Without limitation to the provisions set forth in paragraph I above, withdrawals under
Category (1) shall be governed by the following provisions:
(a) 
Withdrawals up to $90,000,000 shall be made, provided that the Borrower shall
have furnished evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the First Set of Target
Indicators have been met.
(b) 
Additional withdrawals up to $50,000,000 shall be made, provided that: (A) the
Borrower shall have furnished evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the Second
Set of Target Indicators have been met; and (B) any said withdrawal shall not take
place prior to three months after the Signature Date.
(c) 
Additional withdrawals up to $50,000,000 shall be made, provided that: (A) the
Borrower shall have furnished evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the Third
Set of Disbursement Indicators have been met; and (B) any said withdrawal shall
not take place prior to six months after the Signature Date.
(d) 
Additional withdrawals up to $50,000,000 shall be made, provided that: (A) the
Borrower shall have furnished evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the Fourth
Set of Disbursement Indicators have been met; and (B) any said withdrawal shall
not take place prior to nine months after the Signature Date.
(e) 
Additional withdrawals up to $50,000,000 shall be made, provided that: (A) the
Borrower shall have furnished evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the Fifth Set
of Disbursement Indicators have been met; and (B) any said withdrawal shall not
take place prior to twelve months after the Signature Date.
(f) 
Additional withdrawals up to $50,000,000 shall be made, provided that: (A) the
Borrower shall have furnished evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the Sixth
Set of Disbursement Indicators have been met; and (B) any said withdrawal shall
not take place prior to fifteen months after the Signature Date.
(g) 
Additional withdrawals up to $50,000,000 shall be made, provided that: (A) the
Borrower shall have furnished evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the Seventh
Set of Disbursement Indicators have been met; and (B) any said withdrawal shall
not take place prior to eighteen months after the Signature Date.
(h) 
Additional withdrawals up to $58,875,000 shall be made, provided that: (A) the
Borrower shall have furnished evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the Eighth
Set of Disbursement Indicators have been met; and (B) any said withdrawal shall
not take place prior to twenty-one months after the Signature Date.
3. 
The Disbursement-Linked Indicators shall be as follows:
Disbursement Indicators 
Number of children 
Number of AUI Reports
under 18 years old with 
(cumulative since the
complete records in 
Signature Date of the
ANSES ADP 
Original Loan) published
and publicly accessible
First Set of Target Indicators 
12,930,329 
10
Second Set of Target Indicators 
12,948,254 
13
Third Set of Target Indicators 
12,976,178 
16
Fourth Set of Target Indicators 
13,009,103 
19
Fifth Set of Target Indicators 
13,037,028 
22
Sixth Set of Target Indicators 
13,069,952 
25
Seventh Set of Target Indicators 
13,097,877 
28
Eighth Set of Target Indicators 
13,125,801 
31
4. 
Without limitation to the provisions set forth in the Disbursement and Financial
Information Letter, if at any time, the Bank determines that any portion of the amounts
disbursed by the Borrower under Category (1) were made: (a) for expenditures which are
not eligible under the Project; or (b) not in compliance with the provisions of this Section
III.B; the Borrower shall promptly refund any such amount to the Bank as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.
5. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2020.
Section IV. 
Other Undertakings
A. 
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree to amend the Original Loan Agreement as
reflected in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date ("Installment Share").
Level Principal Repayments
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
On each March I and September 1
Beginning March 1, 2026 
2%
through September 1, 2050
SCHEDULE 4
Amendments to the Original Loan Agreement
1. 
Paragraph 3.1 (a) under Part 3 of the Project in Schedule I is hereby amended to read in its
entirety as set forth in paragraph 3.1 (a) under Part 3 of the Project in Schedule I of this
Agreement.
2. 
Paragraph (a) of Section I.A. I of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to
read as follows:
"(a) 
through ANSES, shall: (i) operate and maintain within ANSES, during the
execution of the Project, a Project management team (ANSES PMT) with
functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, to coordinate, evaluate and
manage Project implementation; and (ii) staff said team with a coordinator,
technical experts, and other personnel, all in number and with qualifications and
experience acceptable to the Bank."
3. 
Any references to "ANSES PMU" are hereby replaced with "ANSES PMT".
4. 
Any references to "consultants' services" and "Non-Consultant Services" are hereby
replaced, respectively, with "consulting services" and "non-consulting services".
5. 
Section III of Schedule 2 is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows:
"All goods, works, and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in the Procurement Regulations and the provisions of the Procurement Plan."
6. 
The phrase "(in thousands)" in the heading of the second column of the table in Section
IV.B.3 of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement is hereby deleted.
7. 
The definition of "Anti-Corruption Guidelines" in the corresponding paragraph of Section
I of the Appendix is hereby amended to read in its entirety as set forth in the corresponding
paragraphs of Section I of the Appendix to this Agreement.
8. 
The definition of "Procurement Regulations" is hereby added to Section I of the Appendix
(in its corresponding alphabetical order) to read in its entirety as set forth in paragraph 28
of Section I of the Appendix to this Agreement and the subsequent paragraphs renumbered
accordingly.
9. 
The definition of "Procurement Plan" is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows:
"Procurement Plan means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, provided for
under Section IV of the Procurement Regulations, as such plan may be updated from time
to time with the Bank's approval."
10. 
The definitions of "Consultant Guidelines", "Non-Consultant Services", and "Procurement
Guidelines", set forth in Section I of the Appendix are hereby deleted in their entirety and
the subsequent paragraphs renumbered accordingly.
APPENDIX
I. 
Definitions
1. 
"ANSES" means Administracidn Nacional de la Seguridad Social, the Borrower's social
security administration, established pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 2741/ 1991, as
said Decree has been amended to the date of this Agreement, as a decentralized agency of
the Borrower's Ministry of Labor, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
2. 
"ANSES ADP" means Administrador de Personas, ANSES' main database for
individuals.
3. 
"ANSES PMT" means the team referred to in Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
4. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption
in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006
and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
5. 
"AUH" means Asignacidn Universal por Hyo para la Proteccidn Social, the Borrower's
non-contributory component of the Family Allowances Programs, created through the
Borrower's Executive Decree No. 1602/09 (which amended the Family Allowances
Programs), dated October 29, 2009, and published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on
October 30, 2009.
6. 
"AUH Grant" means a grant made out of the proceeds of the Loan by the Borrower,
through ANSES, to the bank account of the AUH Recipient.
7. 
"AUH Recipient" means an individual who meets the criteria set forth in the Operational
Manual to receive an AUH Grant.
8. 
"AUH Report" means the statistical report on AUH prepared, in the form and substance
specified to that effect in the Operational Manual, and published every month by ANSES.
9. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
10. 
"Disbursement-Linked Indicators" means the indicators set forth in the table in Section
III.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
11. 
"Eighth Set of Target Indicators" means the target indicators set forth in the table in Section
III.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
12. 
"Family Allowances Programs" means Asignaciones Familiares, the Borrower's programs
established pursuant to Articles 6 (a) and 6 (i) of the Borrower's Law No. 24,714, published
in the Borrower's Official Gazette on October 18, 1996, as amended by the Borrower's
executive decree No. 1602/09 dated October 29, 2009, and published in the Borrower's
Official Gazette on October 30, 2009.
13. 
"Ficha Social" means a form containing socioeconomic information of households with
children under AUH.
14. 
"First Set of Target Indicators" means the target indicators set forth in the table in Section
III.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
15. 
"Fourth Set of Target Indicators" means the target indicators set in the table in Section
III.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
16. 
"Fifth Set of Target Indicators" means the target indicators set in the table in Section Ill.B.3
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
17. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing", dated July 14,
2017.
18. 
"ISO" means International Organization for Standardization, an international standard-
setting body composed of representatives from various national standards organizations
which issues world-wide proprietary industrial and commercial standards for products.
19. 
"MDS" means the Borrower's Ministry of Social Development.
20. 
"MDS PMU" means the unit referred to in Section l.A. 1 (b) of Schedule 2 to the Original
Loan Agreement or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
21. 
"Municipality" means a political sub-division within any of the Provinces.
22. 
"National Indigenous Peoples Plan" or "NIPP" means the framework prepared by the
Borrower, published in the Borrower's territory on April 29, 2016 and in the Bank's
external website on May 2, 2016, describing the specific measures and implementation
arrangements to be undertaken to guide the interventions and consultations with indigenous
peoples under the Project.
23. 
"Original Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement for the Original Project between the
Borrower and the Bank, dated September 30, 2016, as amended as of the Signature Date
(Loan No. 8633-AR).
24. 
"Original Project" means the project described in Schedule I to the Original Loan
Agreement.
25. 
"Operational Manual" means the manual dated May 23, 2016, approved by the Bank on
the same date, and referred to in Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same
may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
26. 
"Participating Registry" means any provincial or municipal registry which meets the
criteria to participate in the implementation of Part 2.1 (a) of the Project.
27. 
"PAT" means Plan de Acci6n Territorial, any municipal territorial action plan referred to
in Section 22 (a)(i) of the Project.
28. 
"Procurement Regulations" means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF Borrowers", dated
July 2016, revised November 2017.
29. 
"Province" means any political subdivision of the Borrower as per Title Two of the
Borrower's Constitution, and the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires, and the term
"Provinces" means all said political subdivisions.
30. 
"RENAPER" means Registro Nacional de las Personas, the Borrower's civil registry.
31. 
"Second Set of Target Indicators" means the target indicators set forth in in the table in
Section III.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
32. 
"Seventh Set of Target Indicators" means the target indicators set forth in in the table in
Section III.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
33. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the date of the Loan
Agreement" in the General Conditions.
34. 
"Sixth Set of Target Indicators" means the target indicators set forth in the table in Section
III.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
35. 
"Third Set of Target Indicators" means the target indicators set forth in the table in Section
III.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
