OFF-C-AL
DOCUMENTS
口口■■■ ■■■ ■■■ ■■■口一 口■ ■口口口■口■■■ ■■■ ■■口口
自■■ 口口口口口口口■■■ ■■■ 口口口口口口口口口口口 口口口口口口口口口口口口口目口口口口口口口口口口口口口口口口口口口■口口■■ ■口■口口口口口口■■ 口口個口口口口口口口口口口■
口口口口口口口口口口口口口口口口口口口口口口口■口口口口口口口■■ ■■■ ■■■ ■口口■口圈口口口口口口口目■■■ ■口口口口口■■■ ■口口口■口目口口口■■ 口口口口口口口口口口口■ 口口口圈口口口口口口口口口口口口口口口口口口口口圈口口口口口口口■口開口口口口口口口口口口口口口口口口
LOAN NUMBER 8828一IN
Loan Agreement
(Meghalaya Community 一Led Landscapes Management Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNAT10NAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCT10N
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8828-IN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between INDIA ("Borrower") and
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT
("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE H -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of forty-eight million Dollars
($48,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in
Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
a
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may
apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure
Limit (as said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of this
Section), the Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of one
-2-
half of one percent (0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess Exposure
Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for each said
day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if any) shall be
payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set
forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during
which the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit,
the product of: (A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the
ratio of all (or, if the Bank so determines, a portion) of the Loan
to the aggregate amount of all (or the equivalent portions) of the
loans made by the Bank to the Borrower, and to other borrowers
guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an exposure
surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined from
time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the
Bank's financial exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded,
would subject the Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined
from time to time by the Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total
financial exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by
the Bank.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project Implementing
Entity, acting through Meghalaya Basin Management Agency (MBMA), in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, Schedule
2 to this Agreement and the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is any of the following officials: The Secretary,
Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under
Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs of the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower.
-3-
5.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower's
address is:
Secretary
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance, Government of India
North Block
New Delhi 110001, India; and
(b) the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile: 
E-mail:
91-11-2309 4075 
secy-dea@nic.in
5.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank's address
is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank's Electronic Address is:
'Facsimile:
1-202-477-6391
-4-
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
INDIA
By
Auth 
zed Representative
Name: gAM6,C. 
K 
/*- 
c
Title: 
VD11T7
Date: 
A/P/L 
/b 
.0;g-
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authori 
Representative
Name: R/SH0qf A5
Title: A"/"6f 
/UORAJV, &e? 
/AlblA
Date: A PR1- /C4./
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to strengthen community-led landscapes
management in selected landscapes in the state of Meghalaya.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Strengthening Knowledge and Capacity for Natural Resource Management
1.A 
Promotion of traditional knowledge, grass-roots innovations and communication
by supporting activities such as: (i) conducting state and regional level workshops
on 
traditional NRM; (ii) developing a knowledge management strategy and
network including an on-line platform for sharing NRM related knowledge to the
Beneficiary(ies) covered under the Project; (iii) promoting and piloting grassroots
innovations for sustainable NRM products and services through Innovation
Grants; and (iv) enabling the carrying out of catalytic activities to encourage
adoption of community-led NRM approach to Villages not covered under Part 2
of the Project.
1.B 
Training and capacity building for the various Project stakeholders and
Beneficiaries by the Participating Training Agencies through activities that include
for example: (i) training on community leadership and management of community-
led NRM plans; (ii) developing training facilities at the block level EFCs; and (iii)
conducting national and international study cum exposure visits.
1.C 
Preparation of strategies, research and development by supporting consultancies
to develop plans and strategies in certain identified areas including in: (i)
developing a strategy and action plan for promoting the development of an
institution/agency of excellence in knowledge management, innovation and
communications; (ii) conducting an institutional development study for the
IBDLP; and (iii) conducting studies on baseline, deforestation and natural resource
degradation as well as on rehabilitation of populations displaced due to mines.
1.D 
Monitoring, learning and reporting by supporting the development of an MIS
system designed by MBMA to cover the entire state for tracking the performance
and implementation of the Project.
Part 2: Community-led landscape planning and implementation
2.A 
Provision of Village Grants to VNRMC in selected Villages for the preparation of
community landscape plans: (i) optimizing the synergies between programs and
funding streams; and (ii) planning holistically to improve management of natural
-6-
resources under their stewardship as provided for in the Community Operations
Manual.
2.B 
Provision of Village 
Grants to VNRMC 
in selected Villages for the
implementation of community landscape plans addressing: (i) soil and water
conservation measures; (ii) agro forestry and community forestry; (iii) spring shed
development and water management plans; (iv) afforestation and regeneration of
natural forests; and (v) rehabilitation of lands affected by shifting cultivation and
mining and any other natural resource management interventions.
2.C 
Implementation support on community landscape planning and implementation by
the SPMU to the Villages for the use of geo-spatial data and other tools for the
purpose of data collection and mapping to inform the planning and implementation
of the community-led NRM plans.
Part 3: Project Management and Governance
Supporting the strengthening of the institutional capacity and knowledge
management of the MBMA through activities, such as: (i) establishment of the
SPMU and provision of administrative support to selected DPMUs including the
appointment of relevant technical and support consultants; (ii) financing of
incremental operating costs; (iii) provision of administrative support to selected
BPMUs; and (iv) provision of technical, fiduciary, safeguards expertise and
supervision of Project activities in the field.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section .
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds
of the Loan available to Meghalaya in accordance with the Borrower's standard
arrangements for developmental assistance to the states of India.
2. 
Notwithstanding paragraph 1 above, in the event that any provision of this
Agreement, including the instructions that the Bank shall have specified to the
Borrower pursuant to the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, were to
be found inconsistent with the Borrower's standard arrangements for development
assistance to the States of India, the provisions of this Agreement shall govern.
3. 
The Borrower shall protect its own interests and the interests of the Bank to
accomplish the purpose of the Loan.
Section H. 
Project Monitorin2 Reportin2 and Evaluation
1. 
The Borrower shall, through Meghalaya, furnish to the Bank each Project Report
not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, covering
the calendar quarter.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause Meghalaya to carry out a comprehensive mid-term
Project review under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; and furnish to
the Bank a mid-term Project progress report, satisfactory to the Bank by no later
than June 30, 2021 counted from the Effective Date.
Section II. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
1. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and
in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the
Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible
Expenditures; and (b) pay: (i) the Front-end Fee; and (ii) each Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar premium; in the amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the
percentage set forth against each Category of the following table:
-8-
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) 
financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, non-consulting 
18,000,000 
60%
services, consulting
services, Incremental
Operating Costs and
Training under Part I
(excluding Innovation
Grants under Part 1 of the
Project), Part 2.C, and Part
3 of the Project
(2) Innovation Grants 
5,000,000 
100%
under Part 1.A of the
Project
(3) Village Grants under 
24,880,000 
100%
Part 2.A and 2.B of the
Project
(4) Front-end Fee 
120,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(5) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest 
Rate 
Collar 
Section 4.05 (c) of the
premium 
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
48,000,000
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up
to an aggregate amount not to exceed eight million Dollars ($8,000,000)
may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after April 1,
2017 for Eligible Expenditures.
(b) 
for payments under Category 3 above, unless the Community Operations
Manual has been prepared and adopted by the MBMA in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2023.
-9-
SCHEDULE 3
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share").
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning May 15, 2023 
5%
through November 15, 2032
-10-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
2. 
"Beneficiary" means (i) each recipient of training under Part I.A or Part I.B of the
Project respectively; (ii) each eligible recipient of an Innovation Grant under Part
1.A of the Project; and (iii) each eligible VNRMC recipient of a Village Grant
under Part 2.A and Part 2.B of the Project.
3. 
"Block" means the administrative sub-division of a District in Meghalaya.
4. 
"Block Project Management Unit" and the acronym "BPMU" mean each existing
unit established at the Block level for assistance in carrying out the Project
activities in such block, headed by the Block development officer and officials of
the relevant departments of the state.
5. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section III.1 of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
6. 
"Community Operations Manual" means the manual to be adopted by the MBMA
*as set forth in Section I.B. 1 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
7. 
"District" means any of the seven (7) administrative sub-divisions of Meghalaya
benefitting from the activities of the Project as agreed between Meghalaya and the
Bank, as well as any other District incorporated from time to time, within the scope
of the Project subject to the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
8. 
"District Project Management Unit" and the acronym "DPMU" mean each unit
established under the MBMA in each District for assisting in carrying out the
Project in such District by leading the coordination efforts with the SPMU, BPMUs
and VNRMCs.
9. 
"Enterprise Facilitation Centre" and the acronym "EFC" mean the center in each
Block established by the MBMA for supporting the VNRMCs to plan and
implement the community-led NRM plans.
10. 
"Environmental Management Framework" and the acronym "EMF" mean the
Project Implementing Entity's environmental management framework, disclosed
on August 17, 2017, setting forth the guiding policies/principles, acceptable
standards and procedures for: (a) the screening of Project investment activities and
the identification of any adverse or positive environmental impacts caused, or
expected to be caused, on account of their implementation, arising from the
-11-
carrying out of such activities; (b) the preparation of their prescribed
environmental management plans, if required; and (c) the draft technical guidelines
addressing the environmental concerns for the proposed interventions in relation
to the implementation; as such framework may be revised, updated or
supplemented from time to time with the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
11. 
"Expression of Interest" and the acronym "Eol" mean the expression of interest
prepared and submitted by each VNRMC to the BPMU for screening by the
DPMU for consideration for its inclusion as an eligible Village under the Project.
12. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project
Financing", dated July 14, 2017.
13. 
"Implementing Agency" means the MBMA or any successor thereto.
14. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the reasonable costs of incremental
operating expenditures incurred during the implementation of the Project, which
expenditures would not have been incurred absent the Project, including, costs of
operation, rent and maintenance of offices and IT related equipment, hiring and
maintenance of vehicles, communication costs, salaries of contractual staff,
salaries of government staff on deputation to the Project, the costs of training staff,
and travel allowances of Project staff incurred with respect to Project
implementation, coordination, and monitoring, but excluding the salaries of civil
servants of the Borrower.
15. 
"Innovation Grants" means grants made or proposed to be made by the MBMA to
the eligible Beneficiary(ies) out of the proceeds of the Loan to finance the carrying
out of the activities under the terms of the Innovation Grant Agreement and in
accordance with the selection criteria and the procedures set forth in the PIP.
16. 
"Innovation Grant Agreement" means the grant agreement to be entered into by
and between the Implementing Agency and an eligible Beneficiary, in accordance
with the PIP.
17. 
"Integrated Basin Development and Livelihood Promotion Program", and the
acronym "IBDLP" mean the program of Meghalaya to develop community-led and
community-owned plans for creation and management of natural assets and being
implemented by the MBMA.
18. 
"MBMA" means the Meghalaya Basin Management Agency, a limited company
incorporated under Section 8 of the Borrower's Companies Act (2013) having its
registered office at House No L/A-56, Lower Nogrim Hills, Shillong-793003,
Meghalaya, India, being the Implementing Agency for the Project, which shall
include its successors and permitted assigns.
-12-
19. 
"MIS" means management information system.
20. 
"Meghalaya" means the Borrower's State of Meghalaya.
21. 
"NRM" means natural resource management.
22. 
"Participating Training Agencies" means the technical training institutes identified
under the Project for the purposes of Part 1.B of the Project, namely the Meghalaya
Institute of Natural Resource Management, Institute of Governance, the
Department of Science and Technology, the State Institute of Rural Development
(SIRD), the Forest Training Institute (FTI - Tura) and the Conservation Training
Institute of the Soil and Water Conservation Department (CTI).
23. 
"Procurement Plan" means, for purpose of paragraph 84 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, MBMA's procurement plan for the Project dated January 16,
2018, as updated/supplemented by MBMA from time to time, pursuant to the
Procurement Regulations.
24. 
"Procurement Regulations" means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for
Borrowers under Investment Project Financing", dated July 1, 2016 
25. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means Meghalaya.
26. 
"Project Implementation Plan" and the acronym "PIP" mean the project
implementation plan dated October 2017 prepared by the MBMA including the
time-bound action plans, procedures and criteria agreed with the Bank for Project
implementation (including the criteria of the selection of villages under the Project
and the guidelines for the disbursal of the Innovation Grants) as the same may be
revised, updated or supplemented from time to time with the prior written
concurrence of the Bank.
27. 
"Safeguard Documents" means, collectively the EMF and the SMF.
28. 
"Signature Date" means the latest of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the
date of the Loan Agreement" in the General Conditions.
29. 
"Social Management Framework" and the acronym "SMF" mean the Project
Implementing Entity's social management framework cum indigenous peoples
development plan, disclosed on August 17, 2017, setting forth the guiding
policies/principles, acceptable standards and procedures for: (a) the screening of
Project investment activities and the identification of any adverse or positive social
impacts caused, or expected to be caused, on account of their implementation,
arising from the carrying out of such activities; (b) the preparation of their
prescribed social impact assessments; and (c); grievance redress mechanisms; as
-13-
such framework may be revised, updated or supplemented from time to time with
the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
30. 
"State Project Management Unit" and the acronym "SPMU" mean the state project
management unit established within the MBMA pursuant to Notification Number
MDBA-384/2013/621 of March 2, 2017 for implementing the Project.
31. 
"Training" means the reasonable costs of training, workshops and conferences
conducted in the territory of the Borrower or overseas, subject to the Bank's prior
agreement, organized or attended by the Project Implementing Entity's staff and/or
the staff of the MBMA, SPMU, DPMUs, BPMUs and the VNRMCs, all in direct
relation to the Project, which costs include, inter alia, training institutions' and
courses' fees, logistics expenses, rental of training facilities, purchase and
publication of training materials, and travel and subsistence allowances for trainers
and/or trainees.
32. 
"Village" means any of the four hundred villages within Meghalaya located in
'critical' or 'very critical' landscapes as identified as per the agreed criteria
between the Bank and the Project Implementing Entity.
33. 
"Village Grant" means the grant made or proposed to be made by the MBMA to
the eligible VNRMCs out of the proceeds of the Loan to finance the carrying out
of the activities under the terms of the Village Grant Agreement (as defined below)
and in accordance with the criteria and the procedures set forth in the Community
Operations Manual.
34. 
"Village Grant Agreement" shall mean each such agreement to be entered into
between the VNRMC and the respective DPMUs in accordance with the policies
and procedures set forth in the Community Operations Manual under which the-
Village Grants are provided, and which agreement shall include the criteria set
forth in Section I.E of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, together with any
other addenda or annexures, as the same may be amended from time to time.
35. 
"Village Natural Resource Management Committee" and the acronym "VNRMC"
mean the committee to be constituted in each Village, comprising the adult males
and females in the selected Villages which will submit the Eols, as per an agreed
template to the respective BPMUs for being considered for inclusion under Part 2
of the Project.
