OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8844-MX
Loan Agreement
(Additional Financing for the Energy Efficiency in Public Facilities Project 
PRESEMEH)
between
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between UNITED MEXICAN
STATES duly represented by its Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (Secretaria de
Hacienda y Cridito Pzblico) ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing
additional financing for supporting Part 3 of the project described in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement ("Project").
WHEREAS, the Borrower has informed the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan
(as set forth in the table in Section III.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and for purposes
of supporting the Project), shall be used in conformity with the requirements of the
Borrower's income, budgetary and public debt laws and the terms of this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- LOAN
2.01. 
Noting that the Borrower has informed the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan shall
be used in conformity with the requirements of the Borrower's income, budgetary
and public debt laws and the terms of this Agreement, but without limitation to the
provisions of Section 8.01 of the General Conditions, the Bank agrees to lend to
the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
the amount of fifty million Dollars ($50,000,000) as such amount may be
converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion ("Loan"), to assist the
Borrower in financing the Project.
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. Unless the Borrower's Representative set
forth in Section 6.01 of this Agreement otherwise informs the Bank, the
Borrower's Representative for purposes of taking any action required or permitted
to be taken pursuant to this Section is the NAFIN's Director of International
Financial Institutions (Director(a) de Organismos Financieros Internacionales) or
any person or persons whom such representative shall designate in writing.
-2-
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may
apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure
Limit (as said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of
this Section), the Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of
one half of one percent (0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess
Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for
each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if any)
shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set
forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during
which the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit,
the product of: (A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the
ratio of all (or, if the Bank so determines, a portion) of the Loan
to the aggregate amount of all (or the equivalent portions) of the
loans made by the Bank to the Borrower and to other borrowers
guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an exposure
surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined from
time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the
Bank's financial exposure to the Borrower, which, if exceeded,
would subject the Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined
from time to time by the Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total financial exposure to
the Borrower, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
-3-
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower, through SENER, shall: (i) carry out Part 3(a) of the Project; and (ii)
cause Part 3 (b) of the Project to be carried out by the Operator with the assistance
of CFE, in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions,
the PF Operator Collaboration Agreement, the PF CFE Implementation
Agreement, and Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following, namely, that any of
the parties to the Contrato de Mandato and/or to the PF Operator Collaboration
Agreement shall have failed to perform any of their obligations under the Contrato
de Mandato and/or under the PF Operator Collaboration Agreement, respectively,
and that in the opinion of the Bank, such failure of performance shall materially or
adversely affect the objectives of the Project.
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following, namely, that any
of the events specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing
for a period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank
to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
the Contrato de Mandato has been duly executed by the parties thereto;
(b) 
the PF Operator Collaboration Agreement has been duly executed by the
parties thereto;
5.02. 
As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 5.01, there shall be
furnished to the Bank the following:
(a) 
the Borrower, through SHCP and SENER shall issue two (2) separate legal
opinions -one for SHCP and one for SENER- satisfactory to the Bank, by
counsel acceptable to the Bank, indicating that the Contrato de Mandato
has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on
behalf of, the Borrower, and is legally binding upon the Borrower in
accordance with the Contrato de Mandato's terms; and
b) 
NAFIN has issued a legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank, by NAFIN's
counsel satisfactory to the Bank, indicating that the Contrato de Mandato
has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on
-4-
behalf of, NAFIN, and is legally binding upon NAFIN in accordance with
the Contrato de Mandato's terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower's
Representative is the Titular de la Unidad de Cridito Pblico of SHCP. The
authorized representative to make requests for Conversions or for an IBRD Hedge
(as defined in the Hedging Guidelines) on behalf of the Borrower shall be: (a) the
Titular de la Unidad de Cr6dito Pblico of SHCP or any person or persons whom
he or she shall designate in writing for this particular purpose; or (b) NAFIN's
Director(a) de Organismos Financieros Internacionales.
6.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions, as applicable:
(a) the Borrower's address is:
Secretaria de Hacienda y Cr6dito Piblico
Unidad de Asuntos Internacionales de Hacienda
Insurgentes Sur 1971, torre III, piso 3, Plaza Inn
Colonia Guadalupe Inn
01020 M6xico City
Mexico; and
(b) the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
E-mail:
uaih_shcp@hacienda.gob.mx
6.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions, as applicable:
(a) the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
E-mail:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
psaaverda@worldbank.org
-5-
64145(MCI)
AGREED in Mexico City as of the Signature Date.
UNITED MEXICAN STA 
S
By 
__
Auinzed Representative
Name: Juan Pablo Newmn Aguilar
Title: Titular de la Unidad de Cr6dito P6blico
Date: 10 de a_Qsto, 2018
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOP 
ENT
By
Authorized ReprelKntative
Name: R?Y 
C 
ceJC
Title: ( 
Ay2ir-c
Date: 
CU 
D 0 oV
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to promote the efficient use of energy in the
Borrower's municipalities and other Eligible Public Facilities by carrying out energy
efficiency investments in selected public sectors; and (b) to contribute to strengthening the
enabling environment.
The Project consists of the PRESEMEH Project. The following Part of the Project
may be supported by the Loan:
Part 3. 
Public Facility Energy Efficiency Investments
(a) 
Strengthening capacities and the enabling environment for energy efficiency at
Eligible Public Facilities through, inter alia: (i) the carrying out of capacity
building activities for energy efficiency at Eligible Public Facilities; (ii) supporting
the development of policy and of monitoring, reporting and verification
procedures; and (iii) the carrying out of targeted energy and science education
activities mainly for girls.
(b) 
(i) 
Carrying out Public Facility Energy Efficiency Subprojects, consisting of
investments on inter alia: (1) acquisition and installation of lighting fixtures and
wiring, including the installation of management and control systems; and (2)
acquisition and installation of, among others, electrical wiring, lighting, air
conditioning, windows, insulation, white roofs, solar water heaters, and
photovoltaic systems, all in Eligible Public Facilities; and
(ii) 
Preparing feasibility studies, including detailed energy audits and designs,
structural safety assessment and bidding documents, for the Public Facility Energy
Efficiency Subprojects.
-7-
SCHEDULE2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arran2ements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower, through SENER:
(a) 
shall, no later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date, establish and
maintain, throughout Project implementation, a unit (SENER-UREP) with
functions, responsibilities, and competent specialists with qualifications,
capabilities, experience and functions, all satisfactory to the Bank and set
forth in the POM; and
(b) 
shall ensure, throughout Project implementation, the coordination with
SENER's subordinated agencies participating in the implementation of the
technical aspects of the Project and other Borrower's agencies
participating in the Project, all with powers and functions acceptable to.the
Bank to fulfill their respective responsibilities under the Project.
B. 
Contrato de Mandato
1 .
For purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower, through SHCP and SENER,
shall enter into a contract (Contrato de Mandato) with NAFIN, satisfactory to the
Bank, whereby:
(a) 
SENER agrees to carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions
of this Agreement including compliance with the ESMF, the POM and the
Anti-Corruption Guidelines;
(b) 
NAFIN agrees to: (i) act as financial agent of the Borrower with respect to
the Loan, meaning that, inter alia, NAFIN agrees to represent the
Borrower vis-a-vis the Bank for purposes of submitting Loan withdrawal
applications to the Bank in form and substance sufficient to justify
disbursement by the Bank to the Borrower, of Loan proceeds and agrees,
if required by the Borrower (through SHCP), to maintain and operate the
Designated Account (referred to in the Disbursement and Financial
Information Letter and the additional instructions cited in Section 2.01(b)
of the General Conditions), all in compliance with the provisions of this
Agreement; and (ii) abide by the Anti-Corruption Guidelines;
(c) 
The Borrower, through SHCP, shall have the right to, in case of fraud or
corruption (as defined in the Anti-Corruption Guidelines), provide for the
-8-
early termination of the Contrato de Mandato or temporarily suspend its
effects, or, if applicable, require the Restitution of and amount equivalent
to the funds transferred to NAFIN or SENER under said Contrato de
Mandato; and
(d) 
SENER, agrees to cooperate fully with NAFIN to ensure that NAFIN and
SENER are able to comply with all the obligations referred to in this
Agreement and in the Contrato de Mandato.
2. 
The Borrower, through SHCP and SENER shall and shall cause NAFIN to exercise
their rights and carry out their obligations under the Contrato de Mandato in such
a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish
the purposes of the Loan.
3. 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower, through SCHP and
SENER shall not, and shall cause NAFIN not to amend, terminate, waive or fail to
enforce any provision of the Contrato de Mandato. In case of any conflict between
the terms of the Contrato de Mandato and those of this Agreement, the provisions
of this Agreement shall prevail.
C. 
Implementation Agreements
1 .
For purposes of carrying out Part 3(b) of the Project, the Borrower, through
SENER, shall:
(a) 
enter into an agreement with the Operator (the PF Operator Collaboration
Agreement), under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank and set
forth in the POM including, inter alia: (i) the Borrower's obligation,
through SENER to provide in a timely manner the funds required for the
implementation of Part 3(b) of the Project; and (ii) the Operator's
obligation to carry out the activities under Part 3(b) of the Project in
accordance with the relevant sections of this Agreement;
(b) 
cause the Operator to, not later than ninety (90) days after the Effective
Date of this Agreement, enter into the PF CFE Implementation Agreement
entered into with CFE, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank
and set forth in the POM including, inter alia: (i) CFE's obligation to assist
the Operator in the technical implementation of Part 3(b) of the Project,
including the collection of payments of electricity bills made by each
Eligible Public Facility, and to transfer said payments to the Operator for
further processing by SENER; and (ii) the Operator's obligation to pay a
limited amount of Project Incremental Costs related to CFE's discharge of
its responsibilities in the implementation of Part 3(b) of the Project;
(c) 
upon acceptance of any given Public Facility Energy Efficiency
Subproject as set forth in the POM, enter into an agreement (PF Activity
Initiation Agreement) with the Operator and the Eligible Public Facility
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the
POM, including, inter alia: the Eligible Public Facility's obligation to
assist the Operator in the preparation and evaluation of said Public Facility
Energy Efficiency Subproject; and
(d) 
immediately upon the approval of a Public Facility Energy Efficiency
Subproject as set forth in the POM, enter into an agreement (PF Energy
Service Agreement) with the Operator and the Eligible Public Facility
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the
POM, including, inter alia: (i) the Operator's obligation to carry out the
Public Facility Energy Efficiency Subproject; and (ii) the Eligible Public
Facility's obligations to: (1) reimburse a portion of the cost of the Public
Facility Energy Efficiency Subproject through its payments to CFE; and
(2) undertake the periodic operation and maintenance of the Public Facility
Energy Efficiency Subproject.
2. 
The Borrower, through SENER, shall exercise its rights and carry out its
obligations under the PF Operator Collaboration Agreement, each PF Activity
Initiation Agreements and each PF Energy Service Agreement in such manner as
to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce the PF
Operator Collaboration Agreement, any PF Activity Initiation Agreements, any PF
Energy Service Agreement, or any of their provisions.
3. 
The Borrower, through SENER, shall cause the Operator to exercise its rights and
carry out its obligations under the PF CFE Implementation Agreement in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish
the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall ensure that the Operator shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive
or fail to enforce the PF Operator Collaboration Agreement, or any of its
provisions.
4. 
In case of any conflict among the provisions of this Agreement and the provisions
of either the Operator Implementation Collaboration Agreement, the PF CFE
Implementation Agreement, any PF Activity Initiation Agreement or any PF
Energy Service Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
D. 
Project Operational Manual
1 .
The Borrower, through SENER, shall carry out the Project and/or cause the Project
to be carried out, in accordance with the provisions of a manual (the Project
-10-
Operational Manual or POM) satisfactory to the Bank, containing, inter alia: (a)
the activities and timetable of actions to be carried out under the Project; (b) the
respective roles and responsibilities of the agencies involved in the implementation
of the Project; (c) the functions, responsibilities and specialists of SENER-UREP;
(d) the fiduciary, technical 
and operational aspects and procedures 
for
implementation of the Project, including the financial management procedures
(budgeting, accounting and internal control, disbursement and flow of funds,
financial reporting, annual reports, internal and external audit arrangements
procedures); (e) the criteria and procedures for the selection of Public Facility
Energy Efficiency Subprojects; (f) the rules of operation of the Contingency
Facility under Part 4 of the Project; (g) the performance indicators of the Project;
and (h) the ESMF and the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
2 
The Borrower, through SENER, shall not amend or waive or fail to enforce any
provision of the Operational Manual without the Bank's prior written approval. In
case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and those of this
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
E. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower, through SENER, shall, and shall cause the Operator through the PF
Operator Collaboration Agreement to, carry out the Project in accordance with the
ESMF. Except as otherwise agreed by the Bank, the Borrower, through SENER,
shall, and shall cause the Operator to, not amend, abrogate, waive, or fail to enforce
the ESMF or any of its provisions.
2. 
The Borrower, through SENER, shall ensure that: (i) the terms of reference for any
consultancy required under the Project shall be satisfactory to the Bank following
its review thereof; and (ii) to that end, such terms of reference shall duly
incorporate the requirements of the Bank's Safeguards Policies then in force, as
applied to the advice conveyed through such technical assistance, including the
public disclosure and consultation of the resulting environmental and social impact
assessments in accordance with the Bank's Safeguards Policies.
3. 
The Borrower, through SENER, shall cause the Operator to ensure that no Public
Facility Energy Efficiency Subproject that shall require the use or cause the
potential pollution of International Waterways shall be carried out under the
Project.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reportinz and Evaluation
1. 
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar
semester.
-11-
2. 
By July 30 2019, or such other date as the Bank and the Borrower shall agree upon,
and without limitation to the provisions of Section 5.08 (a) and (b) of the General
Conditions, the Borrower, through SENER shall, and shall cause the Operator to:
(a) carry out jointly with the Bank, a mid-term review of the implementation of
activities under the Project, which shall cover the progress achieved in the
implementation of the Project; and (b) following such mid-term review, act
promptly and diligently to take any corrective action as shall be agreed by the
Bank.
Section HI. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General.
1. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and
in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the
Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible
Expenditures; (b) pay (i) the Front-end Fee; and (ii) each Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar premium; in the amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the
percentage set forth against each Category of the table set forth below.
2. 
The remaining proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed in Dollars unless otherwise
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank and so reflected in the Disbursement
and Financial Information Letter. Consistently with Section 2.05 of the General
Conditions, the Borrower may use an amount equivalent to the amount in Dollars
provided under this Agreement to finance Eligible Expenditures.
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) 
Goods, 
works, 
49,875,000 
100%
consulting services, non-
consulting 
services,
Capacity 
Building 
and
Project Incremental Costs
for Part 3 of the Project
(2) Front-end Fee 
125,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(3) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest 
Rate 
Collar 
Section 4.05 (c) of the
premium 
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
50,000,000
-12-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000 may be made for payments made
prior to the Signature Date but on or after the date falling twelve (12) months
before the Signature Date.
2. 
The Closing Date is October 31, 2021.
-13-
SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule - Bullet Repayment
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on October 15, 2032.
-14-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
2. 
"Bank's Safeguards Policies" means the Bank's operational safeguards policies
and procedures, set forth in the Association's Operational Manual under OP/BPs
4.01, 4.04, 4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37, or such policies and procedures then
in force.
3. 
"Capacity Building" means the reasonable expenditures (other than consulting
services) incurred by the Borrower, through SENER, and the Operator in
connection with the carrying out of capacity building activities under the Project,
as described in the POM.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
5. 
"CFE" means the Comision Federal de Electricidad, the Borrower's federal
electricity utility, established pursuant to the Borrower's Ley de la Comisi6n
Federal de la Electricidad, dated August 11, 2014, or any successor thereto.
6. 
"Contingency Facility" means the facility operated by the Operator under Part 4 of
the Project as set forth in the Project Operational Manual.
7. 
"Contrato de Mandato" means the agreement between the Borrower (through
SHCP and SENER) and NAFIN referred to in Section I.B.1 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
8. 
"Eligible Public Facility" means a hospital under coordination of SS, a hospital
administered by IMSS, a school administered by SEP, collectively referred to as
"Eligible Public Facilities".
9. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the
framework prepared by SENER and the Operator, initially published on September
4, 2015, and updated and published on December 8, 2017, acceptable to the Bank,
setting forth the principles, guidelines, rules and procedures to assess the potential
environmental, social, health and safety impacts of Project activities, and
mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures to be taken to offset or eliminate
any such negative impacts, or reduce them to acceptable levels, including: (a)
measures for chance findings of physical cultural property; (b) guidelines for the
-15-
identification of existing environmental conditions and potential direct and indirect
environmental impacts resulting from the carrying out of the Public Facility
Energy Efficiency Subprojects (including a negative list of investments not to be
financed under the Project); (c) guidelines for the carrying out of environmental
assessments 
and the preparation and implementation 
of environmental
management plans, when applicable; (d) recommendation of mitigation measures
for each negative impact identified; and (e) measures for enhancing each
identified positive impact; as said framework may be amended from time to time
with the Bank's prior written approval.
10. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project
Financing", dated July 14, 2017.
11. 
"Grant Agreement" means the agreement for the financing of Part 4 of the Project
as described in its Schedule 1, among the Borrower, through SHCP and SENER,
NAFIN, and the Bank acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global
Environment Facility, between the Borrower and the Bank, dated as of the date set
forth in said Grant Agreement, and as said agreement may be amended from time
to time. It includes all appendices, schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Grant Agreement.
12. 
"IMSS" means Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social, the Borrower's Institute of
Social Security, a decentralized public entity of the Borrower, with separate
legal personality, separate budget and fiscal autonomy, created pursuant to
the Borrower's Social Security Law published on December 21, 1995 in the
Official Gazette, or any successor thereto.
13. 
"International Waterways" means: (a) any river, canal, lake, or similar body of
water that forms a boundary between, or any river or body of surface water that
flows through, two or more states, whether Bank members or not; (b) any tributary
or other body of surface water that is a component of any waterway described in
(a) above; or (c) any bay, gulf, strait, or channel bounded. by two or more states or,
if within one state, recognized as a necessary channel of communication between
the open sea and other states and any river flowing into such waters.
14. 
"IPF" means Investment Project Financing.
15. 
"NAFIN" means Nacional Financiera, S.N.C., I.B.D., a Mexican development
bank serving as the Borrower's financial agent for purposes of the Loan, or any
successor thereto.
16. 
"Official Gazette" means the Borrower's Diario Oficial de la Federaci6n.
-16-
17. 
"Operator" means FIDE, the Fideicomiso para el Ahorro de Energia Elctrica, the
Electricity Energy Savings Trust Fund, a private fund established in August 14,
1990, or any successor thereto.
18. 
"Original Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement for the financing of Parts 1
and 2 of the Project as set forth in its Schedule 1, entered into between the
Borrower and the Bank dated July 29, 2016 (Loan No. 8594-MX), as amended. It
includes all appendices, schedules and agreements supplemental to the Original
Loan Agreement.
19. 
"PF Activity Initiation Agreement" means Convenio de Inicio de Actividades, any
of the agreements among the Operator, SENER and the corresponding Eligible
Public Facility, referred to in Section I.C.2(c) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
20. 
"PF CFE Implementation Agreement" means the Contrato de Prestaci6n de
Servicios between the Operator and CFE for the implementation of Part 3 of the
Project, and referred to in Section I.C.1(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as
amended from time to time in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
21. 
"PF Energy Service Agreement" means Convenio de Ejecucidn de Acciones de
Ahorro de Energia, any of the agreements among the Operator, SENER and the
corresponding Eligible Public Facility, as the case may be, referred to in Section
I.C.1(d) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
22. 
"PF Operator Collaboration Agreement" means Convenio de Colaboraci6n
SENER-FIDE, the agreement between SENER and the Operator, referred to in
Section I.C. 1(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as amended from time to time in
a manner acceptable to the Bank.
23. 
"PRESEMEH Project" means Parts 1 and 2 as described in Schedule 1 to the
Original Loan Agreement, Part 3 as described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
and Part 4 as described in Schedule 1 to the Grant Agreement.
24. 
"Project Incremental Costs" means the reasonable incremental operating
expenditures, based on an annual allocation previously approved by the Bank and
the Borrower, required for an efficient Project implementation, administration,
supervision, monitoring and evaluation, including limited incremental costs
incurred by: (i) SENER in the implementation of Part 3 of the Project and the
monitoring and evaluation of the Project; and (ii) the Operator in connection with
the implementation of Part 3 of the Project, but excluding salaries of the
Borrower's officials and public servants, as set forth in the POM
25. 
"Project Operational Manual" or "POM" means the manual for the Project dated
February 15, 2018, acceptable to the Bank referred to in Section I.D.1 of Schedule
-17-
2 to this Agreement; as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior
written agreement of the Bank.
26. 
"Procurement Regulations" means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF
Borrowers", dated July 2016, revised November 2017.
27. 
"Public Facility Energy Efficiency Subproject" means any eligible investment
under Part 3(b) of the Project which meets the criteria set forth in the POM.
28. 
"Restitution" means the refund to the Borrower of the portion of the equivalent
amount of the Loan with respect to which fraud and corruption has occurred, as set
forth in the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
29. 
"SENER" means Secretaria de Energia, the Borrower's Ministry of Energy, and
any successor thereto.
30. 
"SENER-UREP" means the unit referred to in Section I.A. 1(a) of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, or any successor thereto.
31. 
"SEP" means Secretaria de Educaci6n Pzblica, the Borrower's Ministry of Public
Education or any successor thereto.
32. 
"SHCP" means Secretaria de Hacienda y Cridito Publico, the Borrower's
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, or any successor thereto.
33. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the
date of the Loan Agreement" in the General Conditions.
34. 
"SS" means Secretaria de Salud, the Borrower's Health Ministry, or any successor
thereto.
