OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
国■ ■■ ■ ■ ■ ■■ ■国 国■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■
自国■■■■■■■■■■■■■■
LOAN N じMBER 8910-IN
Loan Agreement
(Andhra Pradesh Integrated Irrigation and Agriculture Transformation Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNAT10NAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
■■■■■■国国国■■■■国国日国図戸国国国国国国■■■国国■■■■■園
■ ■ ■■ 国■国国園■園■■国目国国国園■■■■■■■■国■■■国■
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between INDIA ("Borrower") and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01, 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE H -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of one hundred and seventy-two
million and two hundred thousand dollars (USD 172,200,000), as such amount may be
converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion ("Loan"), to assist in financing
the project described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
103. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.
2.0T 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit (as
said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of this Section), the Borrower
shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of one half of one percent (0.5%) per annum
of the Allocated Excess Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(1) of this
Section) for each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if any) shall
be payable serni-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set forth below:
-2-
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during which
the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit, the product of: (A) the
total amount of said excess; and (B) the ratio of all (or, if the Bank so determines,
a portion) of the Loan to the aggregate amount of all (or the equivalent portions)
of the loans made by the Bank to the Borrower, and to other borrowers guaranteed
by the Borrower that are also subject to an exposure surcharge, as said excess and
ratio are reasonably determined from time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the Bank's
financial exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded, would subject the Loan to
the Exposure Surcharge, as determined from time to time by the Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total financial
exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project Implementing Entity in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
4.02, 
For purposes of Section 9.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement (other than those providing for payment
obligations) shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is any of the following officials acting severally: The
Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary, or Under
Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs of the Borrower's Ministry of Finance.
5.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) the Borrower's address is:
Secretary
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
Government of India
North Block
New Delhi 110 001. India; and
-3-
(b) the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile: 
E-mail:
+91-11-23094075 
secy-dea@nic.in
5.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile: 
E-mail:
1-202-477-6391 
jahmad@worldbank.org
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
INDIA
By
/ 
Authorized Representative
Name: SAec 
umA%ki
Title: AD17MTTOW3AU L-A
Date: NoiJM3 em eF-
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
J )NA=)KAMAL- 
ATHMAD
Title: C0U 
tqK:j 
TTE 
~XA
Date: M~& .3t 
, o
-4-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to enhance agricultural productivity, profitability and climate
resilience of smallholder farmers in selected districts of Andhra Pradesh.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A. 
Improving Irrigated Agriculture Efficiency
A. I 
Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building of WUAs
Capacity building of Water User Associations (WUAs) for better operation and
maintenance of tank systems and better water management, through training, technical
assistance, support from private operator, and establishment of service feedback
mechanism and user satisfaction surveys.
A.2 
Rehabilitation and Modernization of Small-Scale Community-Based Irrigation Systems
Modernization of irrigation infrastructure of tank systems located in selected cascades.
A.3 
Improving Water Productivity and Efficiency
1. 
Improvement of water efficiency and productivity, and promotion of conjunctive
water use in the tank command and its zone of influence, by, inter alia: (a)
establishing cascade monitoring and decision support systems; (b) installing censor-
based measuring devices to monitor water discharge to farms; and (c) broadening
stakeholder participation in planning and managing water resources.
2. 
Promotion of community-led management to improve groundwater conditions.
Part B. 
Promoting Climate-Smart Agricultural Practices
B. I 
Support to Climate-Smart Crop Production and Diversification
I. 
Support for technology dissemination and transfer for sustainable and climate-
resilient crop intensification.
2. 
Support for crop diversification through, inter alia: (a) mobilization and organization
of targeted farmers into farmer producer organizations for cooperative production and
produce marketing; (b) market demand assessments for profitable crops; (c)
demonstration of new crops and their production technologies; (d) rejuvenation of old
orchards; and (e) strengthening of access to seeds and other inputs for new crops.
-5-
3. 
Support for mechanization of farm activities, including establishment of farm
machinery centers to provide machinery and other equipment on lease and to provide
necessary support for their usage.
B.2 
Support to Climate-Smart Aquaculture
Improvement of aquaculture production and profitability, including through: (a) support
for aquaculture management approaches; (b) improved access to good quality fish seed and
feed; (c) production of high value species; (d) dissemination of improved production
technology; (e) strengthening of extension-farmer linkages; (f) biosafety and disease
surveillance; (g) improvement and management of fish marketing infrastructure; (h) value
addition; and (i) support for compliance with food safety standards.
Part C: 
Post-Harvest Management, Market and Agribusiness Promotion
Enhancement of farmers' profitability by improving their access to markets and their
capacity to add value to their produce, including through: (1) easing market infrastructure
constraints on processing, storage, handling and marketing of farm produce; and (2)
facilitating linkages of farmer producer organizations and value chain operators to local,
national and international markets.
Part D: 
Project Management and Capacity Building
Support for Project implementation, monitoring and reporting.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section 1. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the
Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity in accordance with the Borrower's
standard arrangements for developmental assistance to the states of India. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, in the event that any provision of this Agreement, including the instructions
that the Bank shall have specified by notice to the Borrower pursuant to Section IILA of
this Schedule 2, were to be found inconsistent with the Borrower's standard arrangements
for development assistance to the states of India, the provisions of this Agreement and
related instructions shall govern.
2. 
The Borrower shall at all times protect its own interests and the interests of the Bank to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
Section H. 
Project Monitorin2 Reportin2 and Evaluation
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than one month after
the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar semester.
Section HI. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in
accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible Expenditures; and (b) pay: (i)
the Front-end Fee; and (ii) each Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar premium; in the
amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category of
the following table:
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) 
financed
(inclusive)
(1) 
Goods, 
works, 
non- 
171,769.500 
70%
consulting 
services, 
and
consulting services for the
Project
(2) Front-end Fee 
430,500 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(3) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest 
Rate 
Collar 
Section 4.05 (c) of the
premium 
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
172,200,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made for payments
made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed thirty-four million four hundred and forty thousand ($34,440,000) may be made
for payments made prior to this date but not before twelve months prior to the Signature
Date for Eligible Expenditures under Category (1).
2. 
The Closing Date is October 31, 2025.
-8-
SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date ("Installment Share").
Level Principal Repayments
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
On each June 15and December 15
Beginning December 15, 2024 
2.78%
through December 15. 2041 
0
On June 15, 2042 
2.70%
-9-
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Andhra Pradesh" means the Borrower's State of Andhra Pradesh or any successor thereto.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption
in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006
and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
4. 
"District Project Management Unit" or "DPMU" means each of the units established and
referred to under Section I.A.4 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
5. 
"EMP" means the Environmental Management Plan(s) to be prepared by the Project
Implementing Entity, satisfactory to the Bank, which set forth: (a) the measures to be taken
during the implementation and operation of the Project to avoid, minimize, mitigate or
offset ad-verse environmental impacts, or to reduce them to acceptable levels, and (b) the
actions needed to implement these measures, as said instrument may be amended from time
to time with the Bank's prior written agreement.
6. 
"Empowered Finance Committee" or "EFC" means the committee established and referred
to under Section I.A.2 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
.7. 
"ESMF" means the Environmental and Social Management Framework , prepared by the
Project Implementing Entity, satisfactory to the Bank, and disclosed on the Bank's website
on April 4, 2018 setting out the principles, rules, guidelines and procedures to screen and
assess the environmental and social impacts (including health and safety issues) of the
activities which will be identified and appraised during Project implementation, and
containing measures and plans to avoid, minimize, mitigate and/or offset adverse impacts
and/or reduce said adverse impacts to acceptable levels, and enhance positive impacts,
provisions for estimating and budgeting the costs of such measures, and information on the
agency or agencies responsible for addressing project impacts, as said instrument may be
amended from time to time with the Bank's prior written agreement.
8. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing", dated July 14,
2017.
9. 
"NHMP" means the Natural Habitats Management Plan prepared by the Project
Implementing Entity, satisfactory to the Bank, and disclosed on the Bank's website on
April 4, 2018 as said instrument may be updated from time to time with the prior written
agreement of the Bank.
10. 
"PNIP" means the Pest Management Plan prepared by the Project Implementing Entity,
satisfactory to the Bank, and disclosed on the Bank's website on April 4, 2018 as said
instrument may be updated from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
-10-
11. 
"Project Implementation Plan" or "PIP" means the Project Implementation Plan to be
prepared, approved and adopted by the Project Implementing Entity in accordance with
Section I.B of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, as such plan may be amended from
time to time with the prior concurrence of the Bank.
12. 
"Procurement Regulations" means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF Borrowers", dated
July 2016, revised November 2017.
13. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means Andhra Pradesh.
14. 
"Project Management Unit" or "PMU" means the unit established and referred to under
Section I.A.3 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
15. 
"Project Steering Committee" or "PSC" means the committee established and referred to
under Section I.A.1 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
16. 
"Safeguard Instruments" means collectively, the ESMF, EMP(s), PMP, SMP(s), TPPF,
and NHMP.
17. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the date of the Loan
Agreement" in the General Conditions.
18. 
"Small-Scale Community-Based Irrigation System" means irrigation system consisting of
small tanks, ponds, and other water bodies within a defined catchment area.
19. 
"SMP" means the Social Management Plan(s) prepared or to be prepared by the Project
Implementing Entity, satisfactory to the Bank, which set forth: (a) the measures to be taken
during the implementation and operation of the Project to avoid, minimize, mitigate or
offset adverse social impacts, or to reduce them to acceptable levels; and (b) the actions
needed to implement these measures, as said instrument may be amended from time to time
with the Bank's prior written agreement.
20. 
"Tribal Group" means any distinct, vulnerable, social and cultural group within the
territory of the Project Implementing Entity, that: (i) self-identifies as such and claims, and
is recognized by others as, having a distinguishable cultural identity; (ii) has collective
attachment to geographically distinct habitats or ancestral territories in the Project area,
and to the natural resources in these habitats and territories; (iii) has customary cultural,
economic, social and political institutions that are separate from those of the dominant
society and culture; and (iv) has an indigenous language, often different from the official
languages of the country or region.
21. 
"TPPF" means the Tribal Peoples Planning Framework prepared and adopted by the
Project Implementing Entity, satisfactory to the Bank, and disclosed on the Bank's website
on April 4, 2018 which sets out the protocols for consulting with tribal groups to ensure
their continued participation throughout project period; screening the Project activities and
identifying and assessing any potential Project-related social impact on Tribal Groups;
-ll-
preparing any mitigation actions thereof; and monitoring and reporting requirements in
relation thereto; as such framework may be amended from time to time with the prior
written agreement of the Bank.
22. 
"Water User Association" or "WUA" means a local organization of water users involved
in management and operation of irrigation systems set up in accordance with the criteria
and procedures set forth in the PIP.
23. 
"WRD" means the Project Implementing Entity's Water Resources Department, or any
successor thereto.
