OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8791-CN
Loan Agreement
(Guangdong Compulsory Education Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
)Asc 
/- 
, 201S
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8791-CN
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
, 2011, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
OF CHINA ("Borrower") and INTEANATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalizdd terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred and twenty million
Dollars ($120,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08
of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule
1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread,
provided, however, that the interest payable shall in no event be less than zero
percent (0%) per annum; and provided furthermore that, upon a Conversion of all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the
Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance
remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty
-2-
days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as
provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 1 and November 1 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and.
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
-
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
2.09. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure
Limit (as said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of
this Section), the Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of
one half of one percent (0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess
Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for
each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if any)
shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set
forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during
which the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit,
-3-
the product of (A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the
ratio of all (or, if the Bank so determines, a portion) of the Loan
to the aggregate amount of all (or the equivalent portions) of the
loans made by the Bank to the Borrower and to other borrowers
guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an exposure
surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined from
time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the
Bank's financial exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded,
would subject the Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined
from time to time by the Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total
financial exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by
the Bank.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and the Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Xicheng District
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
-4-
Facsimile:
(86-10) 6855-2077
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at Beijing, People's Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By
Authorized Representative
Name:
Title:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authoriz& Representative
Name: 
a.-,- 
Title: 
__
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve learning facilities and teaching quality
in selected public primary and junior secondary schools in Project Counties.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A. 
Improve School Equipment and Facilities
1.- 
Acquisition and installation of ICT equipment in selected schools.
2. 
Construction of classrooms and teacher's accommodations for selected schools.
Part B. 
Strengthen the Training and Assessment System for Teachers and
Principals
1.. 
Improvement, development and delivery of pre-service and in-service training
courses for teachers and principals.
2. 
Improvement of the training system for teachers and principals through: (a) the
design and implementation of an enhanced quality assurance mechanism; and (b)
the acquisition and installation of related equipment.
Part C. 
Pilot Reforms to Improve Equity and Quality of Education
I. 
Carrying out of pilot activities and developing policy recommendations aimed at
improving equity and quality in public compulsory education including, inter alia:
(a) 
Providing support to left-behind children with a particular emphasis on,
inter alia, the training of personnel, and the installation and equipping of
activity rooms and/or associated facilities.
(b) 
Providing support to children with mild to moderate physical and/or
intellectul disabilities through, inter alia, the training of personnel, and
the installation and equipping of resource rooms and/or associated
facilities.
(c) 
Provision of mobile laboratories to Project Counties.
(d) 
Strengthening the school partnerships' system in Guangdong.
-7-
Part D. 
Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
I. 
Provision of Project implementation support, including the provision of
equipment, carrying out of studies and technical assistance, capacity building
activities and training of government and PMO staff, carrying out of workshops,
seminars and study tours, and Project supervision, monitoring and evaluation.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Imlementation Arranzements
A. 
Financing Arrangements
1I 
For the purposes of carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make available
the proceeds of the Loan to the Project Implementing Entity, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including the following principal terms:
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars or any other
Currency as the Loan may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion (such principal amount determined on the date, or
respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of the value of the
currency or currencies so withdrawn.
(b) 
The principal amount so made available (including an amount equal to the
fee paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement and any premium for
Interest Rate Caps or Interest Rate Collars paid pursuant to Section 2.08(c)
of this Agreement and Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions shall be
recovered over a period of twenty-five (25) years, inclusive of a grace
period of five (5) years.
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of
Section 2.05 of this Agreement.
(d) 
A Commitment Charge shall be charged equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to: (a) manage, operate,
monitor, transfer and reconcile the proceeds of the Loan made available to it
pursuant to paragraph 1 above in accordance with arrangements and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank; (b) take all required actions, including provision of timely
consents and approvals as may be necessary, to facilitate the utilization of said
Loan proceeds and the implementation of the Project and, to enable the Project
Implementing Entity to comply with its undertakings under the Project Agreement;
and (c) maintain all relevant records and documents related to the Loan and the
Project and provide promptly such documents and records, including all other
information, as may be requested by the Borrower or the Bank from time to time.
-9-
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. 
Safeguards
The Borrower shall take, and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to take,
all measures necessary to comply with, or all measures necessary to enable the
Project Implementing Entity to comply with, the provisions of Section I.C of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section IL 
Project Monitoringm Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
*The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to monitor and evaluate
the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the
indicators set forth in the Project Operations Manual. Each Project Report shall
cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than sixty (60) days after the end of the period covered by such report.
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than three (3) months after the Closing Date.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the Bank, as part
of the Project Report, not later than sixty (60) ,days after the end of each calendar
* semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the semester,
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause.the Project Implementing Entity to have its Financial
Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the
General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period
of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each
such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the
end of such period. The Borrower shall make, or cause the Project Implementing
-10-
Entity to make, the audited Financial Statements publicly available in a timely
fashion and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and M of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, I, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1I 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive
Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set forth in the box below; (b) Direct
Contracting; (c) Shopping- and (d) procurement under Framework Agreements in
accordance with procedures which have been found acceptable to the Bank.
The procedures applicable to the procurement of goods, works, and non-
consulting services under contracts awarded on the basis of National
Competitive Bidding ("NCB') shall be the open tendering procedures set forth
in the Borrower's Law on Tendering and Bidding promulgated by its Order
No. 21 dated August 30, 1999; provided, however, that such procedures shall
- 11 
be subject to the provisions of Section I, Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of Section III,
and Appendix 1 of the Procurement Guidelines, and the additional provisions
in the following. In the event of a conflict between the Borrower's procedures
and these NCB Procedure Modifications, the latter shall govern.
(i) 
Eligibility to participate in a procurement process and to be awarded a
Bank-financed contract shall be as defined under Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines; accordingly, no bidder or potential bidder
shall be declared ineligible for such contract for reasons other than
those provided in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines. 
No
restriction based on nationality of bidders and/or origin of goods shall
apply, and foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate in NCB
without application of restrictive conditions.
(ii) 
All invitations to prequalify or bid shall be advertised in a national
newspaper of wide circulation in the Borrower's country, or on a
widely used website. / electronic portal with free national and
international access acceptable to the Bank except for goods or non-
consulting services contracts that are estimated to cost less than
$300,000 equivalent each, or works contracts that are estimated to cost
less than $2,000,000 each, which may be advertised in a provincial
daily newspaper. Such advertisement shall be made in sufficient time
for prospective bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding
documents and prepare and submit their responses. In any event, a
minimum of thirty (30) days shall be given to bidders between the date
of such advertisement (or the date of availability of bidding
documents, whichever is later) and the deadline for the submission of
bids, and the advertisement and bidding documents shall specify the
deadline for the submission of bids. In the case of such advertisement
on a website / electronic portal, the notice shall remain readily
accessible nationally and internationally until at least the deadline for
the submission of bids. Potential bidders shall be allowed to inspect
and purchase bidding documents at any time prior io the deadline for
the submission of bids..
(iii) 
Standard Bidding Documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
(iv) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of evaluating the
qualification of each bidder shall be specified in detail in the bidding
documents.
(v) 
Prequalification procedures and documents acceptable to the Bank
shall be used for large, complex and/or specialized works. Verification
of the information upon which a bidder was prequalified, including
current commitments, shall be carried out at the time of contract
-12-
award, along with the bidder's capability with respect to personnel and
equipment. All bidders that meet the.qualification criteria set out in
the pre-qualification documents shall be allowed to bid, and there shall
be no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
Where pre-
qualification is not used, the qualification of the bidder who is
recommended for award of contract shall be assessed by post-
qualification, applying the qualification criteria stated in the bidding
documents.
(vi) 
Registration shall not be used to assess bidders' qualifications. A
bidder shall not be required to register as a condition for inspecting or
purchasing bidding documents, submitting its bid or receiving contract
award. 
A bidder determined to be the lowest evaluated responsive
bidder, shall be given reasonable opportunity of registering (if
required) before contract signing without any let or hindrance. Bidding
shall not be restricted to any particular class of contractors, and non-
classified contractors shall also be eligible to bid.
(vii) 
No margins of preference of any sort shall be given to bidders, such as
on the basis of their location, place of incorporation, or affinity with
the geographical area in which the Project activities will take place.
(viii) 
All bidders who are awarded contracts for works and single-
responsibility contracts shall be required to provide performance
security in an amount sufficient to protect the Borrower or the Project
Implementing Entity / Entities, as the case may be, in case of breach
of contract by the contractor, and the bidding documents shall specify
the required form and amount of such security and any other potential
damages for such breach.
(ix) 
Bidders shall be allowed to submit bids by mail or in person.
(x) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an
opportunity to be present (either in person or through their
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not be
required to be present at the bid opening.
(xi) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding documents
and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the form of pass/fail
requirements.
(xii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price exceeds
any cost estimate or falls outside any margin or bracket of prices or
average bids established by the Borrower or the Project Implementing
Entity / Entities, as the case may be. Rejection of all bids or re-bidding
-13-
shall not be allowed solely because the number of bids is less than
three (3), and rejection of all bids or rebidding shall not take place
without the Bank's prior written agreement.
(xiii) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive
bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of
capability and resources and whose bid has been determined: (A) to be
substantially responsive to the bidding documents; and (B) to offer the
lowest evaluated cost. The winning bidder shall not be required, as a
condition of award, to undertake responsibilities for work or to assume
other obligations not stipulated in the bidding documents or otherwise
to modify the bid as originally submitted. No negotiations shall be
permitted except with the Bank's no-objection.
(xiv) 
In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding
document and contract shall include provisions stating the Bank's
policy to sanction firms or individuals found to have engaged in fraud
and corruption as set forth in the Procurement Guidelines.
(xv) 
In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding
document and contract shall include provisions stating the Bank's
policy with respect to inspection and audit of accounts, records and
other documents relating to the submission of bids and contract
performance.
(xvi) 
Government-owned enterprises in the Borrower's country may be
permitted to bid or submit a proposal of goods, works, or non-
consulting services if they can establish that they. (A) are legally and
financially autonomous; (B) operate under commercial law; and
(C) are not a dependent agency of the agency conducting the
procurement.
(xvii) Matters such as subcontracting, joint venture relationships and
assignment of contract shall be handled in accordance with the bidding
documents.
(xviii) The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be published in
the national or provincial press (as provided under paragraph (ii)
above) or official gazette or a free and open-access website and shall
identify (A) the name of each bidder who submitted a bid, (B) bid
prices as read out at bid opening; (C) the name of the bidder, and the
evaluated price, of each bid that was evaluated; (D) the names of
bidders whose bids were either rejected as non-responsive or not
meeting qualification criteria, or not evaluated, with the reasons
therefor, and (E) the name of the winning bidder and the final total
-14-
contract price, as well as the duration and summary scope of the
contract. Such publication shall be within two (2) weeks of receiving
the Bank's no-objection to the award recommendation for contracts
subject to the Bank's prior review, and within two (2) weeks of the
Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity's award decision for
contracts subject to the Bank's post review. The bidding documents
shall disclose the newspaper in which and / or the electronic means by
which the information on contract award will be published.
(xix) 
The Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity / Entities, as the case
may be, shall have in place an effective and independent protest
mechanism for bidders to protest. 
The bidding documents shall
provide the professional title and address of the official to whom such
protests should be sent.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan:
(a) 
Quality-Based Selection
(b) 
Selection Based on the Consultants' Qualifications
(c) 
Least-Cost Selection
(d) 
Fixed Budget Selection
(e) 
Selection of Individual Consultants
(f) 
Single Source Selection (Firm and Individual)
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Banlc
-15-
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated February 2017, as
revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement
pursuant to sich instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the
table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) 
Financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) 
Goods, 
non-consulting 
119,700,000 
100%
services, consultants' services,
Training 
and 
Workshops,
Allowances 
and 
Operating
Costs for the Project (except for
expenditures under Part A.2 of
the Project)
(2) Front-end Fee 
300,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
120,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $12,000,000 may be made
for payments made prior to this date but on or after January 1, 2017, for Eligible
Expenditures.
-16-
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2023.
- 17 
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(expressed as a percentage)
1 May2023 
1.48%
1 November 2023 
1.52%
1 May 2024 
1.56%
1 November 2024 
1.59%
1 May 2025 
1.63%
1 November 2025 
1.67%
1 May2026 
1.72%
1 November 2026 
1.76%
1 May 2027 
1.80%
1 November 2027 
1.85%
1 May2028 
1.89%
1 November 2028 
1.94%
1 May 2029 
1.99%
1 November 2029 
2.04%
1 May 2030 
2.09%
1 November 2030 
2.14%
1 May 2031 
2.20%
1 November 2031 
2.25%
1 May2032 
2.31%
1 November 2032 
2.37%
1 May2033 
2.43%
1 November 2033 
2.49%
1 May 2034 
2.55%
1 November 2034 
2.61%
1 May 2035 
2.68%
1 November 2035 
2.74%
1 May2036 
2.81%
1 November 2036 
2.88%
1 May2037 
2.95%
-18-
1 November 2037 
3.03%
1 May2038 
3.10%
I November 2038 
3.18%
1 May 2039 
3.26%
1 November 2039 
3.34%
1 May 2040 
3.43%
* 
1 November 2040 
3.51%
I May 2041 
3.60%
1 November 2041 
3.69%
1 May 2042 
3.78%
1 November 2042 
4.14%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
.repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
* 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the* second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
- 19-
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either. (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
-20-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Allowances" means monetary allowances to be provided to public compulsory
education schools on a unit-cost basis or any other pre-agreed basis as set forth in
the Project Operations Manual, to support the provision of services and activities
under Part C of the Project..
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
3. 
"Annual Work Plan" means each of the rolling plans for the Project to be prepared
or updated by the Project Implementing Entity, and approved by the Bank, on an
annual basis as provided for in Section I.A.2 of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.
4. 
"Bank's Safeguards Policies" means the operational policies and procedures for
the financing of development projects by the Bank at the date of this Agreement
and relating to Environmental Assessment, Natural Habitats, Pest Management,
Indigenous Peoples (Ethnic Minorities), Physical Cultural Resources, Involuntary
Resettlement, Forests, Safety of Dams, Projects on International Waterways, and
Projects in Disputed Areas, as published under www.WorldBank.orgopmanual.
5. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
6. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
7. 
"Displaced Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of the
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts
caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of
shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or
means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to another location;
or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected
areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such persons; and a
"Displaced Person" means any of such Displaced Persons.
8. 
"Environmental Management Plan" or the acronym "EMP" means the Project
Implementing Entity's plan for the Project, acceptable to the Bank, dated March
2017, which sets out the environmental and social protection measures, including
-21 
measures for the protection of natural habitats and physical cultural resources, in
respect of the Project, as well as administrative, monitoring, supervision and
training arrangements to ensure the implementation of said plan, as said plan may
be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and
such term includes all schedules, attachments and annexes supplemental to said
plan.
9. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
10. 
"ICT" means information and communications technology.
11. 
"Operating Costs" means the reasonable costs incurred by the Project
Implementing Entity at the provincial, municipal and county levels for purposes of
Project management and implementation, based on the Annual Work Plans
approved in advance by the Bank, on account of office supplies and consumables,
office rental, utilities, bank charges, communications, mass media and printing
services, interpretation and translation services, vehicle rental, operation and
maintenance, and insurance, building and equipment maintenance, local
transportation, domestic travel, lodging, and subsistence expenses, salaries of
contractual and temporary staff, but excluding salaries and any salary supplements
of members of the Borrower's or the Project Implementing Entity's civil service.
12. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
13. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Project Implementing Entity's procurement plan
for the Project, dated May 5, 2017 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the
Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said
paragraphs.
14. 
"Project Counties" means, collectively, the following counties/districts located in
Guangdong Province: Chaoan, Chaoyang, Dianbai, Haifeng, Huazhou, Huilai,
Jiexi, Lianjiang, Leizhou, Lufeng, Luoding, Puning, Suixi, Wengyuan, Wuchuan,
and Wuhua.
15. 
"Project Operations Manual" means the operations manual for the Project, dated
June 2017, which sets out procedures and details regarding the implementation of
the Project, its monitoring and supervision, performance indicators, financial
management (including criteria and methodology for the provision of Allowances)
and procurement aspects, as the same may be updated from time to time with the
prior written agreement of the Bank.
-22-
16. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means the Borrower's Province of Guangdong, or
any successor thereto.
17. 
"Project Steering Group" means the group established by the Project Implementing
Entity to provide overall leadership, policy guidance and institutional coordination
in Project preparation and implementation, and referred to in Section LA.1(a) of
the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and any successor thereto.
18. 
"Project Management Office" or the acronym "PMO" means the provincial-level
Project management office established under Guangdong's Provincial Department
of Education and responsible for the overall coordination, management and
supervision of the Project and for the implementation of Project activities; and
referred to in Section LA.1(b) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and any
successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
19. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or the acronym "RPF" means the Project
Implementing Entity's resettlement policy framework for the Project, acceptable
to the Bank, dated March 2017, which sets out the policies and procedures for the
acquisition of land and other assets, grievance redress mechanisms, compensation,
resettlement and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons, and for the preparation of
additional resettlement action plans as may be required for Project activities, as
said framework may be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement
of the Bank; and such term includes all schedules, attachments and annexes
supplemental to said framework.
20. 
"Safeguards Instruments" means, collectively, the Environmental Management
Plan, the Resettlement Policy Framework, and any resettlement action plan(s)
prepared under the Project.
21. 
"Training and Workshops" means the costs of training activities under the Project,
based on the Annual Work Plans approved in advance by the Bank, and attributable
to seminars, workshops, and domestic and overseas training and study tours, along
with travel and subsistence allowances for participants, services of trainers, rental
of training facilities, preparation and reproduction of training materials, and other
activities directly related to course preparation and implementation.
Section 11. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1 .
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
-23-
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. 
The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in afrears on each Payment
Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any
surcharge, any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early
termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any
premium payable upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
