OFFICIAL 
DOCU-MENTS 
LOAN NUMBER 8800-CN 
Loan Agree-ment 
(Jiangxi Farm Produce Distribution System Development Project) 
between 
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DFYEl,OPMENT 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8800-CN 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC 
OF CHINA (''Borrower'') and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONS1RUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (''Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I- GENERAL CONDfflONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions ( as 4e:fined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to 
and form part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement 
have the meanings ascn"bed to them in 'Qie General Conditions or in the Appendix 
to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IT-LOAN 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of one hundred fifty million 
. Dollars ($150,000,000), ~ such amount may he conyerted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion ("Loan"), to assist in :financing the project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project"). 
2.02. 
The Borrow~r may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section 
IV of Schedule 2 to tbis Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is-one quarter of one percent (025%) per annum on the 
Unwithdra.wn Loan Balance. 
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may 
apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General 
Conditions. 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are June 1 and December 1 in each year. 
2.07. . The principal amo~t of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement. 
2.08. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure 
Limit (as said terms are' defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of 
this Section), the Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of 
-2-· 
one half of one percent (0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess 
Exposure Amount (as defined in sub~paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for 
each said day (''Exposure Surcharge"). The Ex_posure Surcharge (if any) 
shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payi;nent Date. 
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set 
. forth below: 
(i) 
"Allocated-Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during 
which the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit, 
the product of: (A) the_ total amount of said excess; and (B) the 
ratio of all ( or, if the 1;1ank so determines, a portion) of the Loan 
to the aggregate amount of all (or the equivalent portions)" of the 
. loans made by the.Bank to the Borrower and to other borrowers 
guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an exposure 
surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determin~ from 
time to time by the Bank. 
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit'' means the standard limit on the 
Bank's :fu;iancial exposure to the Borrower which, if .exceeded, . 
would subject the Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined 
from time to time by the Bank. 
(iii) 
''Total Exposure" means for any given day, .the Bank's total 
financial exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by 
the Bank. 
ARTICLE ID-PRO.JECT 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project 
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conaitions, Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the Project Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV -EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date. 
-3-
ARTICLE V-REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance. 
5.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: 
(a) the :J;Jorrower's address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
Sanlihe 
Xicheng District 
Beijing.100820 . 
People'.s Republic of China; and 
. 
. 
(b) the Borrower's Electronic Address is: 
\ 
Facsimile: 
(86-10) 6855-2077 
. 
. 
5.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: 
(a) the Bank's address is: 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
_1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America; and 
(b) the Bank's.Electronic Address is: 
Facsimile: 
1-202-477-6391 
AGREED as of the Signature Date. 
-4-
. 
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
By 
Name: 
Title: 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
~CONSTRUCTION AND D~VELOPMENT 
Name:_~/3_a,.,t-_~-~------
Title: 
C,D~ o .. ~- ~~ 
Date: ___ 
A,,{.~~~~· 
~~=---.>-1>_1, 
___ t-, __ 
-5-
. SCHEDULE! 
Project Description 
TI:!,e objective of the Project is to improve the distnbution system of selected farm 
products in-participating counties of Jiangxi. 
Toe Project consists of the following parts: 
Part 1: Strengthening Production Logistics 
1.1 
Supportin:g investments by the Eligiole Beneficiaries for improved market access, 
including establishment and improvement of farmer c~eratives, technical 
assistance, farm produce certification, e-commerce development, establishment of 
village farm.er information hubs, and capacity building; all through the provision 
of Sub-grants. 
1.2 
Supporting investments by the Eligible Beneficiaries in post-harvest handling 
processes and facilities; all through the provision of Risk-sharing Transfers. 
Part 2: Improving Distn'bution Logistics 
2.1 
Supportin.g the rehabilitation and construction of market/distribution infrastructure 
ai3.d purchase of the related equipment. 
22 
Supporting the estab~ent of a market information system, including a county 
operations and service center for e-commerce at each market/distnoution center. 
Part 3: Support Services for the ~ole Distribution System 
3.1 
Proviciing technical and analytical support for research on the provincial farm· 
product distnouti.on system and the development of provincial strategic planning 
for the provincial farm product distribution system. 
3.2 
Capacity building activities for market management. 
Part 4: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation 
4.1 
Strength~g of administrative and technical capacity at the provincial and county 
levels and provision of incremental support for Project management. 
-6-
4.2 
Supporting the establishment of a monitoring and evaluation system, including 
physical and financial progress, impact evaluation, and environmental and social 
safeguards .compliance. 
· 
Section I. 
SCBEDULE2 
· Project Execution 
Implementation Arrangements 
A. 
Financing Arrangements 
I. 
For the pUiposes of carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make available 
the proceeds of the Loan to the Project Implementing Entity, under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, .includmg the following prin~pal terms: 
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars or any other 
Currency as the Loan may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion (such principal amount determined on the date, or 
respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of the value of the 
currency or currencies so·withdrawn. 
(b) 
.Toe principal amount so made available (including an amount equal to the 
. fee paid pursuant to Sectio~ 2.03 of this Agreement and. any premium for 
Interest Rate Caps or Interest Rate Collars paid pursuant to Section 4.05( c) 
of the General Conditions) shall be recovered over a period of twenty-four 
(24) years1 inclusive of a grace period of five ( 5) years. 
( c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 2.05 .of this Agreement. 
( d) 
A Commitment Charge shall be charged equal to one quarter of one 
perc~t (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance. 
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the. Proj~ Implementing Entity to: (a) manage, 
operate, monitor, transfer and reconcile the proceeds of the Loan made available 
to it pursuant to paragraph 1 above in accordance with arrangements and 
procedures satisfactory to the Bank; (b) take all required actions, including 
provision of timely consents and approvals as may be necessary, to facilitate the 
utilization of said Loan proceeds and the implementation of the Project and, to 
enable the Project Implementing Entity to comply with its undertakings under the 
Project Agreement; and (c) maintain all relevant records and documents related 
to the Loan and the Project and provide promptly such documents and records, 
including all other information, as may be requested by the Borrower or the Bank 
from time to time. 
-8-
B. 
Safeguards 
The Borrower shall take, and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to take, 
all measures necessary to comply with, or all measures necessary to enable the 
Project Implementing Entity to comply·with the provisions of Section LC of the 
Schedule to the Prpject Agreement. 
Section Il. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
The Borrower shall ~use the Project Implementing Entity to furnish to the Bank 
each Project Report not later than sixty (60) days after the end of each calendar 
semester, covering the calendar semester. 
Section m. 
Procurement 
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods,. works and non-· 
consulting services r~ 
for the Project and to be :financed out of the proceeds .. 
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requrrements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisio~ of 
this Section. 
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project anc;l to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth. or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section. 
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by ~e Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponclmg method described in Sections II and m of the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, ill, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, 
as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular MethQds of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting 
Services 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. · Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
-9-
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consulting 
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for 
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive 
Bidding, subject to the additional prQvisions set forth in the box below; (b) 
. Shopping; and ( c) Direct Contracting. 
The procedures applicable to the procurement of goods, works, and non-
consulting services under contracts awarded on the basis of National. 
Competitive Bidding ("NCB") shall be the open tendering procedures set forth 
in the Borrower's Law on Tendering and Bidding promulgated by its Order 
· No. 21 dated August 30; 1999; provided, however, that such procedures shall 
be subject to the provi~ions of Seqtion I, Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of Section Ill, 
and Appendix 1 of the Procurement Guidelines, and the additional provisions 
in the following. In the event of a conflict between the Borrower's procedures 
and these NCB Procedure Modifications, the latter shall govern. 
(i) 
Eligibility to participate in a procurement process ~d to be awarded a 
Bank-;financed contract shall be ~s defined under Section I. of the 
Procurement Guidelines; accordingly, no bidder or potential bidder 
shall be declared ineligi'ble for such contract for reasons other than 
those provided in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines. 
No 
restriction based on nationality of bidders and/or origin of goods shall 
apply, and foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate in NCB 
without application of restrictive conditions. 
· (ii) 
All invitations to prequalify or bid shall be advertised in a national 
newspaper of wide circulation in the Borrower's country, or on a 
widely used website / electronic portal with free national and 
international access acceptable to the Bank except for goods. or non-
consulting services contracts that are estimated to cost less than 
$300,000 equivalent each, or works contracts that are estimated to cost 
less than $2,000,000 each, which may be advertised in a regional daily 
newspaper. Such advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for 
prospective bidders to. obtain prequalification or bidding documents 
and prepare and submit their responses. In any event, a minimum of 
thirty (30) days shall be given to bidders between the date of such 
advertisement ( or · the date of availability. of bidding documents, 
whichever is later) and the deadline for the submission.of bids, and the 
advertisement and bidding documents shall specify the deadline for the 
submission of bids. In the case of such advertisement on a website / 
electronic ortal, the notice shall remain readily accessible nationally 
-10-
and internationally until at least .the deadline for the submission of 
bids. Potential bidders shall .be allowed to inspect and purchase 
bidding documents at any time prior to the deadline for the submission 
of bids. 
(iii) Standard Bidding Documents acceptable to the Bank shall 1:?e used. 
(iv) 
Qualification requirements ofbidders and the method of evaluating the 
qualification of each bidder shall be specified in detail in the bidding 
documents_. . 
(v)· 
(vi) 
Prequalification procedures and docum<:o.ts acceptable to the Bank 
shall be used for large, complex and/or specialized works. Verification 
of the information upon which a bidder was prequalified, including 
current commitments,' shall be carried out at the time. of contract 
award, along with the bidder's capability with respect to personnel and 
equipment. All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in 
the pre-qualification documents shall be allowed to bid, and there shall 
be no limit .on the number of pre-qualified bidders. Where pre-
qualification is not us~d, the qualification of th~ bidder who is 
recommended for award of contract shall pc assessed by post-
qualificat_ion, applying the qualification criteria stated in the bidding 
documents. 
Registration shall not be used to assess bidders' qualifications. A 
bidder shall not be required to register as a condition for inspecting or 
purchasing bidding documents, submitting its bid or receiving contract 
award. A bidder determined to be the l~west evaluated responsive 
bidder, shall be given· reasonable opportunity of registeJ.:ing (if 
·required) before contract signin:g without any let or hindrance. Bidding 
shall not be restricted to ·any parti~ar class of contractors, and non-
classified contractors shall also be eligiole to bid. 
· 
' 
' 
( vii) No margins of preference of any sort shall be given to bidders, S1,1ch as 
on the basis of the4" location, place of incorporation, or affinity with 
the geographical area in which the Project activities will take place . 
. (viii) All bidders who are awarded contracts for works and single-
responsibility contracts shall be required· to provide petformance 
security in an amount sufficient to protect the Borrower or the Project· 
Implementing Entity / Entities, as the case may be, in case of breach 
of contract by the contractor, and the biddiru! documents shall soecifv 
) 
J 
} 
} 
-11-
the required form and amount of such security and any other potential 
damages for such breach. . 
(ix) 
Bidders shall be allowed to submit ~ids by mail or in person. 
(x) 
All bicls shall be opened ~ public; all bidders shall be offered an 
opportunity to be present ( either in ·person or through their 
· representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not be 
required to be present at the bid opening. 
(xi} All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding documents 
and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the form of pass/fail 
requirements. 
(xii} No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price exceeds 
any cost estimate or falls outside any margin or b~ket of prices or 
average bids established by the Borrower or the Project Implementing 
Entity/ Entities, as the case may be. Rejection of all bids or re-bidding 
shall not be allowed solely because the number of bids is less than 
three (3), and rejection of all bids or rebiQding shall not take place 
without the Bank's prior :wntten agreement 
(xiii} Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest· evaluated responsive 
bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of 
capability and resources and whose hid has been determined: (A} to be 
substantially responsive to the bidding documents; and (B) to offer the 
lowest evaluated cost. The winning bidder shall not be required, as a 
condition of award, to undertake responsibilities for work or to assume 
other obligations not stipulated in the bidding documents or otherwise 
to modify the bid as originally submitted. No negotiations shall be 
permitted except with the Bank's no-objection. 
(xiv) In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each . bidding 
document and contract shall include provisions stating the Bank's 
policy to sanction firms or individuals found to have engaged in fraud 
and corruption as. sef forth in the Procurement Guidelines. 
· 
(xv) In accordance with the Procurepient Guidelines, each bidding 
document and· contract shall include provisions stating the Bank's 
policy with respect to inspection and audit of accounts, records and 
other documents relating to the submission of bids and contract 
performance. 
-12-
(xvi) Government--0wned enterprises in the Borrower's country may be 
permitted to bid or submit a proposal of goods, works, or non-
consulting services if they can establish that they: (A) are legally and 
~cially autonomous; (B) operate under commercial law; and 
(C) are not a dependent a,,,oency of the agency conducting the 
procurement. 
(xvii) Matters such as subcontracting, joint venture relationships and 
assignment of contract shall be handled in accordance with the bidding 
documents. 
(xviii) The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be published in 
the national or regional press (as provided under paragraph (ii) above) 
or official gazette or a free and open-access website and shall identify: 
(A) the name of each bidder who submitted a bid; _(B) bid prices as 
read out at bid opening; (C) the name of the bidder, and the evaluated 
price, of each bid that was evaluated; (D) the names of bidders whose 
bids were either rejected as non-responsive or not meeting 
qmµification criteria, or not evaluated, with the reasons therefor; and 
(E) tµe name of the winning bidc;ler and the final total contra~ price, 
as well as the duration and summary scope of the contract Such 
publication shall be within two (2) weeks of receiving the Bank's no-
objection to the award recommendation for contracts subject to the 
Bank's prior review, and withln two (2) weeks of the Borrower or the 
Project Implementing Entity's award decision for contracts subject to 
the Bank's post review. The bidding documents shall disclose the 
newspaper in which and / or the electronic means by which the 
information on contract award will b~ published. 
(xix) The Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity/ Entities, as the case 
may be, shall have in place an effective and independent protest 
mechanism for bidders to protest. 
The bidding documents shall 
provide the professional title and address of the official to whom such 
protests should be sent. 
· 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services 
l. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants' services shall.be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
-13-
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following 
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for 
· procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the 
Procurement ·Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed 
Budget; (c) Least Cost Seiection; (d)° Selection based on Consultants' 
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of ccinsulting firms; (f) Procedures ~et 
forth in paragraphs 5 .2 and 5.3 of the Consultant .Guidelines for the Selection of 
Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of 
Individual Consultants. 
· 
D. 
Review·by the Bank of Procurement Decisions· 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
A. 
General 
. 
. 
. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and 
in accordance with the Disbursement and Finmcial Information Letter, the 
Borrower may with.draw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible 
Expenditures; and (b) pay: (i) the Front-end Fee; (ii) interest and Commitment 
Charge; and (iii) each Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar premium; in the 
amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each 
Category of the following table: 
Category 
Amount of the .Loan 
Percentage of 
Allocated 
Expenditures to be 
( expressed in USD) 
financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Works under Part 2 of the 
75,980,000 
85% 
Project 
(2) Goods, non-consulting 
100% 
services, 
consultants' 
services, 
Sub-grants, 
21,110,000 
Training and Incremental 
Operating · Costs under the 
Project 
(3) Risk-sharing Transfers 
32,~60,000 
100% of amounts disbursed 
under Part 1.2 of the Proiect 
-14-
(4) Front-end Fee 
375,000 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 
2.03 
of · this 
. 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
(5) ·Interest and Commitment 
13,575,000 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Charge on ·the Loan accrued 
Sections 2.05 and 2.04 of 
on or before the last Payment 
this Agreement, respectively, 
Date immediately preceding 
in 
accordance 
with 
the Closing Date 
Section 2.07 (c) 
of 
the 
General Conditions 
(6) Interest Rate Cap· or 
0 
A.mount due pursuant to 
Interest Rate Collar premium 
Section 4.05 (c) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
150,000,000 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made for 
payments made: 
(a) 
prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $10,000,000 may be made for payments made prior to 
this date but on or after Januazy 12, 2017, for Eligible Expenditures; or 
(b) _ for Risk-sharing Transfers under Category (3), until and unless the Bank is 
satisfied, and has notified the Borrower of its acceptance, that the Project 
Implementing Entity has adopted and incorporated in the PIM,. the Risk-
sharing Manual, in form and substance acceptable to the Bank. 
2. 
The Closing Date. is December 31, 2023. 
-15-
SCHEDULE3 
Commitment:Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule . 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage 
of the total principal amount of the Loa!!- payable on each Principal Payment Date 
(''Installment Share"). 
Level Principal ~epayments 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
On each June 1 and December 1 
Begimtlng June 1, 2023 
through June 1, 2041 
2.63% 
On December 1, 2041 
2;69% 
-16-
APPENDIX 
SectionL 
Definitions 
1. · 
"Anilual Work Plan" means each of the rolling plans for the Project to be prepared 
or upaated by the PI'9ject Implementing Entity, and approved by the Bank, on an 
annual basis as provided for in, Section I.B of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement. 
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix 
to the General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud 
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits .and Grants", 
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011. · 
3. 
"Bank's _Safeguards Policies" means the operational policies an4 procedures for 
financing of development projects by the Bank at the date of this Agreement and 
relating to Environmental Assessment, Natural Habitats, Pest Management, 
Indigenous Peoples (Ethnic Minorities), Physical Cultural Resources, Involuntary 
Resettlement, Forests, Safety of Dams, Projects on International Waterways, and 
Projects in Disputed Areas, as published under www.WorldBank.org/opmanua\. . 
. 
. 
l 
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section N .A of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement. 
5. 
"Consultant Guidelines"· means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank 
Borrowers"'dated January 2011 (revised July.2014). 
6. 
"County Project Management Office" means the county project management 
office established within each Project County and to be maintained in accordance 
with the provisions of Section I.A, paragraph 1 (b )(ii) of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement, and any successors thereto. 
7. 
''Displaced Persons" means persons who, on account of the e~ecution of the 
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by: (a) the involuntary taking ofland, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of 
shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iif) loss of income sources or 
means. of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to another location; 
or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected 
areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such persons; and a 
''Displaced Person" means any of such Displaced Persons. 
-17-
8. 
"Eligi."ble Beneficiaries" means a cooperative duly established under the laws of 
the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity, a family .fa.rm (in Longnan 
county), or such other entity or individual set forth in the PIM, that meets the 
criteria set out in the PIM and which has received or will receive a Sub-grant under 
Part 1.1 of the Project, or is the recipient of a loan provided by JRCB under Part 
1.2 of the Project. 
9. 
''Environmental Management Framework'' and "EMF' mean the environmental 
management framework for the Project, prepared by .the Project Implementing 
Entity, acceptable to the Bank, dated October 2016, which sets out the policies and 
procedures for the assessment of environmental and social impacts of, and for the 
pr~aratj.on of.additional EMP~ as may be required for, Project activities, as said 
framework may be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of 
the Bank; and such term includes all schedules and annexes supplemental to said 
framework. 
10. 
. ''Environmental ,Management Plan" and "EMP" m~ collectively, the 
environmental management plan for the Project, prepared by the Project 
Implementing Entity, acceptable to the Bank, dated November 2016, and each of 
the environmental management plans for the Project, ~o be prepared by the Project. 
Implementing Entity, acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with the EMF, setting 
forth the environmental protection measures, including measures for the protection 
of natural habitats, in respect of the Project, as well as administrative, monitoring, 
supervision and training arrangem~ts to ensure the implementation of said plan, 
as said plan may be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of 
the Bank, and such term includes all schedules and annexes supplemental thereto. 
11. 
"General Conditions" means the 'To.temational Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for IBRD . Financing, Investment Project 
Financing", dated July 14, 2017, with the modifications set forth in Section II of 
this Appendix. 
12. 
''Implementation Agr~ment" means each agreement to be entered into between a 
Project County and an Eligible Beneficiary, which is the recipient of a: loan 
provided by a JRCB, for the implementation of the activities under Part 1.2 of the 
Project, as provided for in Section I.F of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. , 
13. 
''Incremental Operating Costs" means the reasonable costs incurred by the Project 
Implementing Entity at the provincial and county levels, for purposes of Project 
management and implementation based on the Annual Work Plans approved in 
advance by the Bank, on account of office supplies, consumables and rent, utilities, 
bank charges, communications, mass media and printing services, interpretation 
and translation s~ces, vehicle rental, operation, maintenance, and insurance, 
-18-
building and equipment maintenance, local transportation, domestic and 
international travel, lodging, and subsistence allowances, and salaries of 
contractual and temporary staff, but excluding salaries and any salary supplements 
of members of the Borrower's or the Project Implementing Entity's civil service. 
' 
. 
. 
14. 
"JRCB" means the J'iangxi Rural Commercial Bank established on May 26, 2004, 
and operating pursuant to its business license No. 76335772-9, or any successor 
thereto. 
· 
15. 
"Jiangxi" means the Borrower's province ofJiangxi, or any successor thereto; and 
the Project Implementing Entity for the purpose of the General Conditions. 
' 
16. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works 
and Non-consulting Services under IDRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by 
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014). 
17. 
. "Procurement Plan" means the Proj~t Implementing Entity's procurement plan 
for the Project, dated October 27, 2017, and.referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the 
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraphs. 
. 
. 
. 
18. 
''Project Counties" means Jiangxi's Jing'an, Pengze, Huichang, Taihe, Anyuan, 
Yushan, and Longo.an counties, and Jiujiang Economic Development District, and 
such other county or di~ct of Jiangxi agreed with the Bank. 
19. 
"Project _Implementing Entity'' means Jiangxi. 
20. 
''Project Implementation Manual" and .''PIM'' mean the Project Implementing 
Entity's manual dated October 26, 2017, describing, among other things: (a) the 
Project objective, Project activities ·and arrangements, satisfactory to th~ Banlc, 
flow of funds of the proceeds of the Loan and agreed procedures in, inter alia, 
procurement, financial :cp.anagement · and disbursement; (b) the institutional 
arrangements for the implementation of the Project, and the roles and 
responsibilities of the entities involved in Project implementation; (c) 
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for social and environment safeguards 
screening and mitigation; (d) steps and procedures for Project implementation; (e) 
monitoring and evaluation, reporting and information disclosure arrangements, 
and the indicators and targets· for purposes· of monitoring and evaluation of the 
progress of the Project; (f) the eligibility criteria and pro~ures for extending Sub-
~. including templates of Sub-grant Agreements, and grievanc~ redress 
mechanisms in connection thereof; and (g) the Risk-sharing Manual. 
21. 
-19-
''Provincial Steering Committee" means the steering committee established in 
October 2014, to be maintained in accordance with the provisions of Section I.A, 
paragraph l(a) (i) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and any sq_ccessors 
thereto. 
22. 
''Provincial Project Management Office" means the provincial project 
management office established within the Jiangxi Provincial Rural Social 
Development Bureau of Jiangxi's Department of Agriculture, in May 2014, to be 
m,aintained in accordance with the provisions of Section LA, paragraph l(a)(ii) of 
the Schedule to the Project Agreement, an:d any successor thereto. 
23. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" and "RAP" mean each of the resettlement action plans 
for the Project, prepared or to be prepared by the Project Implementing Entity, 
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with the RPF, setting forth, inter alia: (a) 
the principles and procedures governing the acquisition of land required for the 
· Project and related facilities; (b) actions and measures for the payment of 
compeJ?,Sation to Displaced Persons and for their resettlement and rehabilitation; 
(c) the criteria and procedures for developing and implemeIJtiug actions and 
measures, satisfactory to the Bank, for mitigating the adverse social impacts 
resultjng from the implementatiot?, of. activities in locations tJ::i.at are not directly 
identified in the RAP; (d) grievance redress mechanisms; and (e) reporting and 
monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan, as the same may be 
revised fron;t time to time with the prior written agreement of the~ and such 
term includes all attachments and annexes supplemental to said plan. 
24. 
''Resettlement Policy Framework" and "RPF' mean the Project Implementing 
Elmty's resettlement policy framework .for the Project, acceptable to the Bank, 
dated January 25; 2017, which sets out the policies and procedures for the 
acquisition of land and other assets, compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation 
of Displaced Persons, and for the preparation of RAPs as may be required for · 
Project activities, as said framework may be revised from time to time with the 
prior written agreement of the Bank; and such term includes all schedules and 
annexes supplemental to said framewqrlc. 
25. 
"Risk-sharing Manual" means the m.anual to· be prepared by the Project 
Implementing Entity and to be incoiporated in the PIM, acceptable to the Bank, 
setting. forth, inter alia, procedures and documentation for the Risk-sharing 
Transfers, and templates for the Risk-sharing Transfer Agreements. 
· 
26. 
"Risk-sharing Transfer'' means an amount of the proceeds of the Loan to be 
provided by the Project Implementing Entity for loss risk coverage in respect of 
loans to Eligible Beneficiaries originated and held by JRCB pursuant to a Risk-
sharing Transfer Agreement. 
J. 
-20-
27. 
"Risk-sharing Transfer Agreement" means an agreement, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bapk, entered into or to be.entered into between the Project 
Implementing Entity and JRCB, for the purpose of providing Risk-sharing 
Transfers to JRCB, as the same may be amended or supplemented from time to 
time with the prior written approval of the Banl(. 
28. 
"Safeguards Instruments" means, coll~tively, .the EnVll"Onmental Management 
Plans, the Environmental Management Framework, the Resettlement Policy . 
Framework and any Resettlement Action Plans that may be prepared under the.-
Project, as well as any· schedules and ~exes supplemental to said instruments. 
29. 
"Signature Date" means the latest of the two dates on which the Borrower and the 
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applied to all references to "the 
date of the Loan Agreement'' in the General Conditions. 
30. 
"Sub-grant" means a grant to be provided out of the proceeds of the Loan to an 
Eligiole Beneficiary for activities under Part 1.l of the :Project, and in accordance 
with a Sub-grant Agreement, as provided for in Section I.E of the Schedule to the 
Project Agreement. 
31. 
"Sub-grant Agreement" means each agreement to be entered into between a ~ject 
. County and an Eligi"ble Beneficiary providing for a Sub-grant under Part 1 J of the 
Project, as provided for in Section I.E of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
32. 
"Training" means the costs of training activities under the Project, based on the 
Annual Work Pl~, and attnoutable to s~. workshops, and domestic and 
overseas training and study tours, along with travel and subsistence allowances for 
traming ·participants, services of trainers, rental of training facilities, preparation 
and reproduction· of training materials, and other activities directly ·related to 
course preparation and implementation. 
Sectionll. 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows: 
1. 
Section 5.13 (Procurement) is deleted in its entirety and the remaining 
section in Article V is renumbered accorclingly. 
2. 
Paragraphs 84 (Procurement Plan) and 85 (Procurement Regulations) in 
the Appendix are deleted in their entirety and the subsequent paragraphs 
are renumbered imcordingly. 
