OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8901-CO
Loan Agreement
(Support to the Bogota Metro Line 1-Section 1 Project) (Series 1)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
EMPRESA METRO DE BOGOTA S.A.
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") and EMPRESA METRO DE BOGOTA
S.A. ("Borrower"). The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II- LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of seventy million Dollars
(USD70,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following namely that the Republic of
Colombia or the Capital District shall have failed to make available to the Borrower the
financing committed to be provided under the Counterpart Financing Agreement in a
manner that in the Bank's opinion materially and adversely affects the Borrower's ability
to perform any of the Borrower's obligations under this Agreement.
4.02. 
The Co-financing Deadline for the effectiveness of the EIB Co-financing Agreement is
October 31, 2019 or such later date as the Bank may agree.
4.03. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following namely that any event
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 60 days
after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The IADB Co-financing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make
withdrawals under it (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement) have been
fulfilled.
(b) 
The Operational Manual has been adopted by the Borrower in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
(c) 
The Trust Account has been established in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty (180) days after the
Signature Date.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its General Manager.
6.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower's address is:
Carrera 7# 71-52
Torre A Oficina 902
Bogota, Colombia; and
2
(b) the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
E-mail:
Gerencia.general@metrodebogota.gov.co
6.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
3
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By 41
Authorized Representative
Name: 0lriCh Zolchqu
Title: bonCt- p 
uO 
lu1m 
c, vd q-r,,zx4
Date:
EMPRESA METRO DE BOGOT 
S.A.
By 
I6w
Authorized RepreAentative
Name: 
un6p-
Title: 
C 
It6
Date: 
,A 
2 18
4
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve readiness and start the implementation of the
Bogota Metro Line 1 Section 1.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: Detailed Designs, Initial Construction and Works Supervision
Detailed designs, and initial construction works including, inter alia, ground improvement and
compacting for the railyard and initial pilling installation for the viaduct for the Bogota Metro Line
1 Section 1, and provision of consulting services for works supervision.
Part B: Institutional and Policy Strengthening
1. 
Carrying out of technical studies as needed for the implementation of the Bogota Metro
Line 1 Section 1 and approved by the Bank, including, inter alia, studies for the integration
of the Bogota Metro Line 1 Section 1 with the SITP, transit oriented development, and for
the identification of land value capture instruments.
2. 
Strengthening: (a) the capacity of the mobility sector of the Borrower and the Capital
District; (b) the security and safety of women in public transport; and (c) the Borrower's
financial management and safeguards supervision capacity; all through the provision of
consulting services and training.
5
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, for purpose of the implementation, monitoring and
supervision of the Project, a structure, functions and responsibilities, and staffing including
fiduciary, technical, social and environmental specialists, all with qualifications,
experience acceptable to the Bank, as set forth in the Operational Manual.
2. 
The Borrower shall, not later than one month after the Effective Date, employ a consultant
with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank to provide advisory services to
the Borrower in technical, strategic and management aspects of the Metro Line 1 Section
1.
3. 
The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 2019 select the Concessionaire and
thereafter enter into a contract with the Concessionaire under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank which shall include, inter alia the Concessionaire's obligation to
comply with the Safeguard Instruments and grievance redress mechanisms referenced
therein.
4. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Concessionaire Contract in such manner
as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of
the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce the Concessionaire Contract or any of its
provisions.
B. 
Operational Manual
1 .
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with a manual (the Operational
Manual), acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia:
(a) 
the budgeting, accounting, auditing, reporting, financial, procurement and
disbursement procedures of the Project;
(b) 
the organizational structure for implementation of the Project;
(c) 
the Project indicators for the monitoring and evaluation of the Project;
(d) 
the Safeguards Instruments, including the grievance redress mechanism referenced
therein; and
(e) 
the Annual Disbursement Ratios.
6
2. 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and those of this
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
C. 
IDU Agreement
1 .
The Borrower shall, not later than one month after the Effective Date, and in any event
prior to the initiation of any works for which land acquisition is required under the Project,
whichever is earlier, amend the IDU Agreement under terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank, including, inter alia, IDU's obligation to carry out land acquisition activities in
accordance with the provisions of the Initial RAP, the RPF and any applicable RAPs.
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the IDU
Agreement and the IDU Amendment in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of enabling the Borrower to comply
with its obligations under Section I.D of this Schedule. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce
the IDU Agreement or the IDU Amendment or any of their provisions.
D. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that:
(a) 
the Project and the construction of the remainder of Bogota Metro Line 1 Section
I are carried out with due regard to appropriate health, safety, social and
environmental standards and practices, and in accordance with the ESIA, ESMP,
RPF, the Initial RAP and the RAPs;
(b) 
for each activity for which the RPF provides for the preparation of a RAP, such
RAP is prepared and disclosed in accordance with the RPF, adequately consulted
with Affected Persons as per the RPF, and furnished to the Bank for review and
approval; and
(c) 
all measures are taken to implement the Initial RAP and the RAPs in accordance
with their terms and in a manner acceptable to the Bank. To this end, the Borrower
shall ensure, without limitation, that: (i) funds are available to cover all the costs
of implementing the Initial RAP and the RAPs; (ii) Affected Persons shall be
compensated at replacement cost, in accordance with the Initial RAP and the
RAPs, as applicable; and (iii) the implementation, monitoring and evaluation of
the Initial RAP and the RAPs is completed and reported in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the obligation to comply with the relevant Safeguard
Instruments is incorporated in the bidding documents and contracts between the Borrower
and the Concessionaire, other contractors or subcontractors and any entity undertaking
7
works supervision as needed to enable the Borrower to comply with its safeguard
obligations.
3. 
The Borrower shall require the Concessionaire that the obligation to comply with the
Safeguard Instruments is incorporated in the bidding documents and contracts between the
Concessionaire and other contractors and subcontractors as needed to enable the Borrower
to comply with its safeguard obligations.
4. 
The Borrower shall maintain and publicize the availability of a grievance redress
mechanism, in a form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, to hear and determine fairly
and in good faith all complaints raised in relation to the Project, including any Bogota
Metro Line 1 Section I activities, and take all measures necessary to implement the
determinations made by such mechanism in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
5. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that none of the
provisions of the Safeguards Instruments is abrogated, amended, repealed, suspended or
waived. In case of any inconsistencies between the provisions of any of the Safeguards
Instruments and the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall
prevail.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than forty-five (45) days after
the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar semester.
8
Section III. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in
accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to finance Eligible Expenditures; in the amount
allocated and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category of the
following table:
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) 
Goods, 
works, 
non- 
67,000,000 
100% as set forth in the
consulting 
services, 
and 
Operational Manual
consulting services for Part A
of the Project
(2) 
Consulting services and 
3,000,000 
100% as set forth in the
Training for Part B of the 
Operational Manual
Project
TOTAL AMOUNT 
70,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made for payments
made prior to the Signature Date.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2023.
Section IV. 
Other Undertakings
1. 
The Borrower shall, throughout Project implementation, comply with the Annual
Disbursement Ratios.
2. 
For purposes of ensuring compliance with the Annual Disbursement Ratios, the Borrower
shall not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar year furnish to the
Bank, a consolidated interim financial report, acceptable to the Bank, which shall identify
the Eligible Expenditures financed under the Loan and the Project expenditures financed
under each Co-financier Loan.
3. 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 above, and Section 2.08 of the
General Conditions, and in order to comply with the Annual Disbursement Ratios, the
Borrower may request the Bank to finance a lower percentage of expenditures under the
Loan.
9
Section V. 
Procurement
Procurement of Goods, Works, Non-consulting and Consulting Services
1. 
At the request of the Borrower, the Bank has agreed that the procurement of all goods,
works, non-consulting services and consulting services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Co-financiers Loans, be made under the
alternative procurement arrangements referred to in Paragraph 2.4 (a) of the IBRD
Procurement Regulations.
2. 
All goods, works, non-consulting services and consulting services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured by the Borrower in
accordance with:
(a) 
the provisions set forth in: (i) the Policies for Procurement of Goods and Works
financed by the Inter-American Development Bank (GN 2349-9) of March 2011
with respect to goods, works and non-consulting services; and (ii) the Policies for
the Selection and Contracting of Consultants Financed by the Inter-American
Development Bank (GN -2350-9) of March 2011 with respect to consulting
services;
(b) 
the provisions of Paragraphs 3.21, 3.23 (e) and 3.32 of the IBRD Procurement
Regulations; and
(c) 
the Procurement Plan.
3. 
In the event that the alternative procurement arrangements referred to in paragraph I above
are terminated at the request of the Borrower, IADB or the Bank, goods, works, non-
consulting services and consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the IBRD Procurement
Regulations. In such case, the term Procurement Plan shall be the Borrower's procurement
plan for the Project provided for under Section IV of the IBRD Procurement Regulations,
as such plan may be updated from time to time with the Bank's approval.
10
SCHEDULE 3
Customized Amortization Repayment Schedule
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan as follows:
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share Expressed as % of
Principal
March 15, 2034 
5%
September 15, 2034 
5%
March 15, 2035 
5%
September 15, 2035 
5%
M_arch 15,2036 
5%
September 15, 2036 
5%
Mauchl15,2037 
5%
September 15, 2037 
5%
Mauchl15,_2038 
5%
September 15, 2038 
5%
Murch 15, 2039 
5%
September 15,2039 
5%
March 15, 2040 
10%o
September 15,2040 
10%
March 15, 2041 
15Vo
September 15, 2041 
5%
11
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Affected Person" means a person or entity who, on account of the execution of the Bogota
Metro Line 1 Section 1, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social
impacts caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land resulting in: (a) relocation or loss of
shelter; (b) loss of assets or access to assets; or (c) loss of income sources or means of
livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; and "Affected
Persons" means, collectively, all such Affected Persons.
2. 
"Annual Disbursement Ratio" means amounts under the Loan and under each Co-financier
Loan to be disbursed by the Borrower on an annual basis throughout Project
implementation, and as set forth in the Operational Manual, as the same may be adjusted
from time to time in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
3. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption
in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006
and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
4. 
"Bogota Metro Line 1 Section 1" means the first section of the first line for the Bogota
metro system, consisting of approximately 24 kilometers of new urban rail infrastructure,
including: (i) the activities supported by the Project; (ii) the construction of approximately
24 kilometers (including the railyard connection line and end of line rail turnouts) of a 100
percent elevated rail viaduct starting from the metro railyard (in the southwest of the city,
locality of Bosa) to Calle 78 with Caracas Avenue in the central business district of Bogota;
(iii) the construction of 16 stations, 10 of which will be integrated with the bus rapid transit
system, and one railyard; (iv) the construction of approximately 22 kilometers of bicycle
lanes, intervention of targeted sections and stations of the bus rapid transit system along
the Caracas Avenue (until Calle 78) and adjacent roads along the alignment, and public
space upgrading; and (v) the provision and installation of necessary rails, rolling stock,
electrical, control, telecommunications and fare collection system for the operation of the
metro.
5. 
"Capital District" means the Capital District of Bogota, the territorial entity referred to in
article 322 of the Republic of Colombia's Constitution.
6. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
7. 
"Co-financier" means IADB or EIB.
8. 
"Co-financier Loans" means the IADB Co-financing and the EIB Co-financing.
12
9. 
"Concessionaire" means the contractor to be selected under a single concession
arrangement and a design-finance-build-operate-maintain-transfer model pursuant to the
Borrower's Board Resolution (Acta de Junta Directiva) No. 11, dated April 2, 2018.
10. 
"Concessionaire Contract" means the contract referred to in Section I.A.3 of Schedule 2 to
the Loan Agreement.
11. 
"Counterpart Financing Agreement" means the Convenio de Cofinanciaci6n, the
agreement entered into between the Republic of Colombia, the Capital District and the
Borrower on November 9, 2017 setting forth the parties' respective financial contributions
and obligations, the eligible expenditures and their fiduciary and oversight roles in the
construction and operation of the Bogota Metro Line 1 Section 1.
12. 
"EIB" means the European Investment Bank.
13. 
"EIB Co-financing" means, for purposes of paragraph 16 of the Appendix to the General
Conditions, an amount of 56 million Dollars to be provided by EIB to assist in the financing
of goods, works, consulting services and non-consulting services required for Part A of the
Project.
14. 
"EIB Co-financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and the EIB providing for the EfB Co-financing.
15. 
"Environmental and Social Impact Assessment" or "ESIA" means the environmental and
social impact assessment, prepared by the Borrower, satisfactory to the Bank, and disclosed
on the Bank's website on June 18, 2018, setting out details of potential environmental and
social risks, including risks of gender-based violence and sexual exploitation and abuse,
and adverse impacts associated with any Bogota Metro Line 1 Section 1 activities, which
together with an ESMP, define measures to manage such risks and impacts, including
measures that endeavor to prevent and respond to gender-based violence and sexual
exploitation and abuse, and including any schedules to such assessment; as said instrument
may be updated from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
16. 
"Environmental and Social Management Plan" or "ESMP" means the environmental and
social management plan prepared by the Borrower, satisfactory to the Bank, and disclosed
on the Bank's website on June 18, 2018 which details, inter alia: (a) the measures to be
taken during the implementation and operation of the Bogota Metro Line 1 Section 1,
including measures that endeavor to prevent and respond to gender-based violence and
sexual exploitation and abuse, and measures to prevent mitigate, correct or compensate the
environmental and social impacts (including health and safety issues, generated by the pre-
construction, construction and operation of the Bogota Metro Line 1 Section 1 or to reduce
them to acceptable levels); and (b) the actions needed to implement these measures; as said
instrument may be updated from time to time with the Bank's prior written agreement.
13
17. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing", dated July 14,
2017, with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
18. 
"IADB" means the Inter-American Development Bank.
19. 
"IADB Co-financing" means, for purposes of paragraph 16 of the Appendix to the General
Conditions, an amount of 70 million Dollars to be provided by IADB to assist in the
financing of goods, works and services required for the Project.
20. 
"IADB Co-financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and the IADB providing for the IADB Co-financing.
21. 
"IBRD Procurement Regulations" means the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for
IPF Borrowers", dated July 2016, revised November 2017.
22. 
"IDU" means Urban Development Institute established and operating pursuant to the
Capital District's Acuerdo No. 19 of 1972 as amended to the date of this Agreement.
23. 
"IDU Agreement" means the agreement entered into on May 4, 2017 between the Borrower
and IDU setting forth IDU's obligation to assist the Borrower in the acquisition of the lands
required for the implementation of the Bogota Metro Line 1 Section 1.
24. 
"IDU Amendment" means the amendment to the IDU Agreement referred to in Section
I.C.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
25. 
"Initial RAP" means the resettlement action plan prepared by the Borrower, satisfactory to
the Bank, and disclosed on the Bank's external website on July 5, 2018, and setting forth
the principles, procedures, organizational arrangements and budget to implement the
resettlement related activities indicated therein, as said Initial RAP may be revised from
time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
26. 
"Operational Manual" means the Borrower's manual referred to in Section I. B.1 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with the
prior written approval of the Bank.
27. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated June 6,
2018, as the same shall be updated from time to time.
28. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" or "RAP" means any resettlement action plan to be prepared
by the Borrower in accordance with the RPF, and acceptable to the Bank, as the same may
be updated from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank; and "RAPs"
means collectively, all such RAPs.
29. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the Borrower's resettlement policy
framework, satisfactory to the Bank, and disclosed on the Bank's external website on July
14
5, 2018, setting forth the resettlement principles, organizational arrangements (including
consultation and budget), and design criteria to be applied to resettlement related activities,
including guidelines for the preparation of any RAP under the Bogota Metro Line 1 Section
1, as said framework may be amended from time to time with the prior written agreement
of the Bank.
30. 
"Safeguard Instruments" means collectively, the ESIA, ESMP, RPF, Initial RAP, and the
RAPs; and "Safeguard Instrument" means any of such Safeguards Instruments.
31. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the date of the Loan
Agreement" in the General Conditions.
32. 
"SITP" means the Capital District 's integrated system for public transport described in the
Capital District Decrees Numbers: 309 of 2009, 535 of 2011 and 111 of 2018.
33. 
"Training" means expenditures incurred by the Borrower in connection with the carrying
out of seminars, workshops, including the reasonable travel costs (i.e. accommodation,
transportation and per-diem, inter alia) of trainees and trainers (if applicable), trainers
honorarium, training registration fees, catering, rental of training facilities and equipment,
logistics and printing services, as well as training materials for the purposes of and directly
related to the activities described in the Project.
34. 
"Trust Account" means the encargo fiduciario, the trust account to be established by the
Borrower pursuant to section 4 of the Counterpart Financing Agreement in a manner
acceptable to the Bank.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
1. 
Section 5.13 (Procurement) is deleted in its entirety and the remaining section in Article V
is renumbered accordingly.
2. 
Paragraphs 84 (Procurement) and 85 (Procurement Regulations) in the Appendix are
deleted in their entirety and the subsequent paragraphs are renumbered accordingly.
15
