OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8915-EG
Loan Agreement
(Private Sector Development for Inclusive Growth Development Policy Loan)
between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8915-EG
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between ARAB REPUBLIC OF
EGYPT ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing financing in support of the
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (i) the actions which the Borrower has
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I.A of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and (ii) the Borrower's maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic
policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of one billion Dollars
($1,000,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion ("Loan").
2.02. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.03 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower on the principal amount of the loan
withdrawn and the amount outstanding from time to time for each Interest Period
shall be at a rate equal to the Reference Rate (as defined in paragraph 87 of the
General Conditions) for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided,
that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such
amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article
IV of the General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 1 and August 1 in each year.
2.06 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
-2-
2.07. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.05 of the General
Conditions, the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information
relating to the provisions of this Article II as the Bank may, from time to time,
reasonably request.
2.08. 
The Borrower represents that it has designated its Ministry of Finance for the
purpose of handling on behalf of the Borrower, debt service payments with
respect to the Loan.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
To this end, and further to Section 5.05 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of
either party, exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and
the actions specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) 
without limitation upon paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall
promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have the effect of
materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action taken
under the Program including any action specified in Section I of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
significant part of it, will be carried out.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the
Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
Subject to the other provisions of this Article and Section 9.01 of the General
Conditions, this Agreement shall become effective once the Bank has received
evidence that all necessary constitutional procedures have been taken by the
Borrower in accordance with the provisions of Section 9.01 of the General
Conditions.
5.02. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following, namely that
the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out
-3-
the Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty days (180) days
after the Signature Date, or such later date as may be established by the Bank in
accordance with Section 9.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Minister of Investment and International Cooperation of the Borrower is
designated as the Borrower's Representative.
6.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower's address is:
Ministry of Investment and International Cooperation
8 Adly Street
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt
(b) 
the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile: 
E-mail:
(202) 2391-2815/ 
snasr@miic.gov.eg
(202) 2391-5167
6.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) 
the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By:
tho 
edRepr9entative
Namne:
Title: 1{ 
q|
Date: 
i)CCt (9ec 
19,I 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By:
Authorized Representativ
Name:
Date: 
C C t
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I. 
Actions under the Prozram
A. 
Actions Taken Under the Program. The actions taken by the Borrower under
the Program include the following:
Pillar I. Financial Inclusion and Access to Finance
1. 
The 
Borrower, 
through its 
Designated 
Authorized Entity, 
has 
issued:
(a) Decisions No. 8/2018 and No. 9/2018 to allow the use of mobile payment in
microfinance activities; and (b) Decisions No.156/2018 (amending Decision No.
3/2018), and No. 4/2018 to allow the use of electronic payment by microfinance
institutions, leading to improvement in access to finance for subsistence
entrepreneurs.
2. 
The Borrower, through its Designated Authorized Entity, has established and
operationalized the electronic collateral registry for security interests in movable
property allowing greater access to finance for SMEs by strengthening the
implementation of the framework for secured transactions.
3. 
The Borrower, through its President has enacted Law No. 17/2018 regarding
capital markets as published in the official Gazette on March 14, 2018, amending
the Capital Markets Law No 95/1992 to encourage fairer and more efficient
capital markets and to broaden access to finance to investors.
Pillar II. Private Sector Development
4. 
The Borrower has issued Ministerial Decree No. 16/2018 dated February 8, 2018,
amending the Executive Regulations of Companies Law to strengthen corporate
governance and minority shareholders' protection.
5. 
The Borrower has issued Ministerial Decree No. 208/2018 dated October 28,
2018, developing the "your idea, your company initiative ", a program to provide
technical assistance, funding, and improve the regulatory framework for private
sector-led entrepreneurship.
6. 
The Borrower, through its President has enacted Law 182/2018 governing
contracts concluded by public entities as published in the official Gazette on
October 3, 2018, promoting and facilitating SMEs participation in public
procurement.
7. 
The Borrower, through its: (a) Cabinet has approved on June 6, 2018, the new
draft title registration law and submitted it to Parliament for adoption; and
-6-
(b) President has enacted Law No. 27/2018 regarding organizing property
registration in the New Urban Communities, together leading to simplification in
property registration process.
Pillar HI. Strengthened Fiscal Management
8. 
The Borrower has issued Ministerial Decree No. 221/2018 dated May 22, 2018,
requiring mandatory electronic filing of tax returns for entities with legal
personality leading to simplification of tax payment and improvement of the
business environment.
9. 
The Borrower has issued Ministerial Decree No. 157/2018 dated June 4, 2018, on
annual electricity price adjustment, and through its Prime Minister, has issued
Prime Ministerial Decrees No. 1130/2018, No. 1131/2018, No. 1132/2018, and
1133/2018 dated June 13, 2018, on fuel price adjustment for FY2018/19
consistent with the FY2018/19 Budget Statement, for reducing overall energy
subsidies as required for promoting private sector participation in energy sector
and creating fiscal space for human capital investment.
10. 
The Borrower has issued joint Ministerial Decree No. 121/2018 dated October
21, 2018, specifying the process for adopting and applying a formula-based
capital allocation system for governorates and districts.
B. 
Actions to be Taken Under the Program. The actions to be taken by the
Borrower under the Program include the following:
1. 
The Borrower has issued a Ministerial Decree which reduces the number of steps
required to establish a company in order to enhance the business environment.
2. 
The Borrower has issued a Ministerial Decree establishing investor facilitation
services in two governorates in Upper Egypt and/or Frontier Governorates, to
facilitate business establishment and operations and to improve transparency and
predictability for investors.
3. 
The Borrower through its Prime Minister, has issued a Prime Ministerial Decree
specifying Executive Regulations relating to the "Ride Sharing Law" including
the procedures for issuance of operations licenses, a framework for taxes and
social insurance premiums, and data requirements for ride-sharing companies;
leading to a framework for facilitating job creation.
4. 
The Borrower has issued a Ministerial Decree adopting and publishing an
expanded Medium-Term Debt Management Strategy for the period covering
FY 2018/19 to FY 2020/21.
-7-
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
may specify by notice to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the
Front-end Fee) is allocated in two withdrawal tranches. The allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
Amount of the Loan
Allocated
Allocations 
(expressed in USD)
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 
500,000,000
(2) Second Withdrawal Tranche 
497,500,000
(3) Front-end Fee 
2,500,000
(4) Amount due pursuant to Section
4.05(c) of the General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
1,000,000,000
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions
1 .
No withdrawal shall be made of the First Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is
satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with
the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
2. 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Second Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank
is satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of
Section 3.01 of Article III of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to
the Bank:
(a) 
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program;
(b) 
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is adequate;
and
(c) 
that the actions described in Part B of Section I of this Schedule have
been taken.
If, after this exchange of views, the Bank is not so satisfied, it may give notice to
the Borrower to that effect and, if within ninety (90) days after the notice, the
Borrower has not taken steps satisfactory to the Bank, with respect to paragraphs
-8-
(a), (b) and (c) above, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel all or
any part of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
D. 
Deposit of Loan Amounts
1. 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first request for
withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain a deposit account in
Dollars ("Foreign Currency Deposit Account"), on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank.
2. 
All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the
Foreign Currency Deposit Account. The Borrower shall ensure that upon each
deposit of an amount of the Loan into the Foreign Currency Deposit Account, an
equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower's budget management
system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, within thirty (30) days after the withdrawal of each of the First
Withdrawal Tranche and Second Withdrawal Tranche from the Loan Account,
shall report to the Bank: (a) the exact sum received into the Foreign Currency
Deposit Account; (b) the record that an equivalent amount has been accounted
for in the Borrower's budget management systems; and (c) the statement of
receipts and disbursement of the Foreign Currency Deposit Account.
E. 
Audit. Upon the Bank's request, the Borrower shall:
1. 
have the Deposit Account audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to
the Bank;
2. 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the date of the Bank's request for such audit, a certified copy of the
report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, and make such report publicly available in a timely fashion and in a
manner acceptable to the Bank; and
3. 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account and
its audit as the Bank shall reasonably request.
F. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is June 30, 2020.
-9-
SCHEDULE 2
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share").
Level Principal Repayments
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
On each February land August 1
Beginning February 1, 2024,
through February 1, 2053 
1.67%
On August 1, 2053 
1.47%
- 10 
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Cabinet" means the Borrower's Council of Ministers.
2. 
"Capital Markets Law" means the Borrower's law No. 17 of 2018 entitled
"Amendment to Some Provisions of the Capital Market Law No. 95 of 1992" as
the same may be amended from time to time.
3. 
"Deposit Account" means the Foreign Currency Deposit Account.
4. 
"Designated Authorized Entity" means the Borrower's entity established in
accordance to law 10 of 2009 and responsible for supervising and regulating non-
banking financial markets and instruments.
5. 
"Executive 
Regulations 
of 
Companies 
Law" 
means 
the 
Borrower's
administrative instructions for implementing the Companies Law No. 159 of
1981 as the same may be amended from time to time.
6. 
"Foreign Currency Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Part D.1
of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
7. 
"First Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled "First Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
8. 
"FY" means the Borrower's fiscal year covering the period of twelve (12)
months commencing on July 1 of calendar year and ending on June 30 of the
succeeding calendar year.
9. 
"Frontier Governates" means the Borrower's governates that reside in the eastern
and western boundaries of Egypt and include the following governorates: Red
Sea, New Valley, Matrouh, North Sinai and South Sinai.
10. 
"Gazette" means the Borrower's official publication that records the business and
proceedings of the Borrower's government and publishes legal notices.
11. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Development Policy
Financing", dated July 14, 2017.
12. 
"New Urban Communities" means integrated human settlements aimed at
creating new urban centers that achieve social stability and economic prosperity
with a view of redistributing the Borrower's population in the territory.
- 11 
13. 
"Program" means: the program of objectives, policies, and actions set forth or
referred to in the letter dated November 12, 2018, from the Borrower to the Bank
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its
execution and comprising actions taken, including those set forth in Section I of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and actions to be taken consistent with the
program's objectives.
14. 
"Ride Sharing Law" means the Borrower's law No. 87/2018 regulating public
transport services using information technology, as the same may be amended
from time to time.
15. 
"Second Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled "Second Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
16. 
"SME" means small and medium enterprise, and "SMEs" means more than one
small and medium enterprise.
17. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the
date of the Loan Agreement" in the General Conditions.
