OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8864-IN
Loan Agreement
(Additional Financing for PMGSY Rural Roads Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between INDIA ("Borrower")
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply
to and form part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or
in the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE H -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of five hundred million
United States dollars (USD 500,000,000), as such amount may be converted
from time to time through a Currency Conversion ("Loan"), to assist in
financing the project described in Schedule I to this Agreement (the "Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04.' The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on
the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as
may apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule
4 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure
Limit (as said terms are defmed in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii)
of this Section), the Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the
rate of one half of one percent (0.5%) per annum of the Allocated
Excess Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this
Section) for each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure
Surcharge (if any) shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each
Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set
forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day
during which the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard
Exposure Limit, the product of: (A) the total amount of said
excess; and (B) the ratio of all (or, if the Bank so determines,
a portion) of the Loan to the aggregate amount of all (or the
equivalent portions) of the loans made by the Bank to the
Borrower, and to other borrowers guaranteed by the Borrower
that are also subject to an exposure surcharge, as said excess
and ratio are reasonably determined from time to time by the
Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the
Bank's financial exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded,
would subject the Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as
determined from time to time by the Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total
financial exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined
by the Bank.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower, through NRRDA, shall: (a) carry out its Respective Parts
of the Project; and (b) cause the Participating States, acting through their
SRRDAs, to carry out their Respective Parts of the Project, in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
any of the provisions of the Letters of Undertaking has been amended,
waived or abrogated in a way that adversely and materially affects: (i)
a Participating State's capacity to implement its Respective Parts of
the Project and discharge its obligations in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement; and/or (ii) the achievement of the
Project's development objectives; and
(b) 
as a result of an event which has occurred after the date of this
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that any party to a Letter of Undertaking will be
able:to perform its respective obligations thereunder.
-3-
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature
Date.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is any of the following officials, acting
severally- the Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director,
Deputy Secretary, or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs
in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower.
6.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower's address is:
Secretary
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
Government of India
North Block
New Delhi 110 001
India; and
(b) 
the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile: 
E-mail:
+91-11-23094905 
jsmi-dea@nic.in
6.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) 
the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile:
1-202-477-6391
-4-
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
INDIRATINLBN 
O
By
Auorized Representative
Name: SA"p- 
K*tA."kH 
AHJbee
Title: 4rVIAf"r 
Sgt4t!eCTz,F
Date: 
H
7 
-3/, aO1g
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: JvA 
T. 
H
Title: 
I A,, 
A
Date: 
312l
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to strengthen the systems and processes of the
national PMGSY rural roads program for the expansion and maintenance of all-season
rural access roads, resulting in enhanced road connectivity to economic opportunities
and social services for beneficiary communities in the Participating States.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A: PMGSY Rural Roads Program Financing
1. 
Green and Climate Resilient Rural Roads: Constructing, rehabilitating and/or
improving about 5,500 lan of priority rural roads and standalone bridges in
Selected Participating States as per the PMGSY Guidelines, incorporating
adequate climate resilience and road safety features to provide all-weather
access, of which 2,000 km incorporate green concepts and new technologies.
2. 
Pilot Projects to Introduce New Technologies: Piloting and demonstrating the
use of green and climate resilient road designs, innovative bridges and new
technologies, and retrofitting road safety and climate-resilient measures, in
about 1,500 kn of existing Through Routes and Link Routes identified in the
PMGSY District Rural Road Plans of Participating States (approx. 150-200 km
per state). 
3. 
Rural Roads under the Original Project: Completing construction of about
4,000 lan of new all-weather access roads to unconnected habitations in
Selected Participating States, including bridges and necessary cross drainage
works, financed under the Original Project, as per the PMGSY Guidelines.
Part B: Institutional Strengthening
1. 
Asset Management: (a) Developing and implementing state-level assets
management plans in Participating States to prepare prioritized plans for
capital investments and assets maintenance, including the development of a
road and bridge inventory and condition database; (b) refining PMGSY District
Rural Road Plans in Participating States, through identifying missing links and
unlinked habitations through the integrated planning of various categories of
roads; (c) developing innovative maintenance contracts for the rural roads core
network in Participating States, including the use of local communities and/or
micro-enterprise contractors; (d) providing technical assistance to study,
analyze and incorporate surface dressing and other innovative rural roads
maintenance technologies in Participating States; and (e) refining state-level
maintenance policies in Participating States.
2. 
Green & Climate Resilient Rural Roads Strategy: Developing a green and
climate-resilient rural roads strategy for PMGSY, incorporating green and
climate resilient concepts and supporting their implementation through state-
-6-
level strategy replication in Participating States, including: (a) the carrying out
of network level vulnerability assessments; (b) the revision of existing designs
and construction standards for rural roads and bridges; and (c) the development
of detailed engineering designs to pilot retrofitting climate-resilience in
existing rural roads and bridges in Participating States.
3. 
Skills Development and Gender-Targeted Opportunities: Refining PMGSY
training framework to develop a comprehensive human resources professional
development strategy for rural roads agencies and the construction industry
and supporting its implementation, including the creation of employment
opportunities for the youth and women self-help groups.
4. 
Road Safety Management: Developing state-level rural roads safety action
plans in Participating States, and supporting their implementation, through: (a)
the preparation of road safety engineering designs for retrofitting road safety
measures to the existing rural roads network (b) the strengthening of the
implementation capacity of, and the carrying out of awareness campaigns for,
local governments/agencies and communities on road and work-zone safety,
(c) the integration of road safety planning in the Participating States' asset
management systems; and (d) the carrying out of road safety audits of priority
rural roads.
5. 
Program Management Strengthening: Supporting system-wide improvements
for the PMGSY rural roads program, incorporating international best practices,
through: (a) the improvement of PMGSY documentation systems; (b) the
refinement and expansion of the OMMAS; (c) the refinement of PMSGY e-
procurement system and the Procurement & Contract Management Manual;
(d) the development of a medium term rural roads vision (strategy) document;
(e) the implementation of the recommendations of the PMGSY Assessment
Report; and (f) the carrying out of studies on further evolution of the PMGSY
rural roads program and/or the management of the rural road sector.
6. 
Research and Development: Establishing centers of excellence and an
accelerated testing facility for, and facilitating the participating of PMGSY's
technical agencies in carrying out: (a) research and development on rural roads
cost-effective designs, using local materials and new technologies; (b) capacity
building programs for rural road agencies; and (c) performance evaluations of
new rural roads technologies/innovations.
7. 
Outcome Monitoring- Carrying out outcome monitoring studies of PMGSY
roads including their contribution towards poverty reduction, employment,
income generation, health and education outcomes, and the achievement of the
Sustainable Development Goals, all disaggregated by gender.
8. 
Rural Transport Services and Agriculture Supply Chain: (a) Carrying out
studies on prospective cost-effective, reliable and safe improvements to rural
transport services through PMGSY rural roads network, catering to the needs
of women and the poor and promoting the use of clean fuel/electric vehicles;
and (b) carrying out studies on possible trade and logistics improvements in
-7-
rural areas to maximize the positive impact of rural roads on agricultural supply
chains.
9. 
Engineering Design, Project Management and Implementation: (a)
Developing cost-effective climate-resilient engineering designs for PMGSY
rural roads and associated surveys and research, (b) carrying out engineering
supervision of civil works and independent quality monitoring of PMGSY
rural roads in Participating States; (c) providing project management
(including techno-financial) support to NRRDA and the SRRDAs; (d) carrying
out performance auditing services for the Project; and (e) providing equipment
support for office communication, research and monitoring, planning and
design, IT tools/software, and quality assurance systems to NRRDA and the
SRRDAs of Participating States, for the carrying out of the PMGSY rural roads
program.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall: (a) through MoRD, provide the oversight and
coordination, and approve requests for specific activities under the Project; and
(b) through NRRDA, manage and monitor the day-to-day Project
implementation and provide overall strategic technical guidance to the
Participating States and their respective SRRDAs.
2. 
At all times throughout Project implementation, the Borrower shall, and shall
cause the Participating States to, report under the Program of Eligible
Expenditures, through the receipts and payment module of the On-line
Management, Monitoring and Accounting System ("OMMAS"), the civil
work expenditures incurred under its/their Respective Parts of the Project
during the preceding six (6) months.
3. 
For purposes of Part A of the Project, the Borrower, through NRRDA, shall
employ one or more independent expert(s), under terms of reference and with
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank, to carry out performance
audits on a quarterly or bi-annual basis, as the case may be. Said independent
expert(s) shall certify the status of meeting the conditions of disbursement set
out in paragraph B.1(b) of Section M of this Schedule 2 (the "Verification
Reports"). 
The Borrower, through NRRDA, shall furnish copies of the
foregoing Verification Reports, including appropriate certifications, prepared
by said independent expert(s), to the Bank on or before June 1 and December
I of each year, or on or before any other deadlines and with any such
periodicity agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, until completion of the
Project. Said certifications shall serve as a basis to determine the amount of
funds eligible for the Program of Eligible Expenditures under-Part A of the
Project.
B. 
Project Documents
1. 
The Borrower shall, through NRRDA:
(a) 
implement its Respective Parts of the Project, and cause the
Participating States to implement their Respective Parts of the Project,
all in accordance with the Operations Manual, the Procurement 
Contract Management Manual (as eventually revised pursuant to DLI
2.6 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement), the Revised Environmental and
Social Management Framework, the Environmental Codes ofPractice,
the Social Management Framework and the Vulnerability Framework;
and
-9-
(b) 
refrain, and cause the Participating States to refrain, from materially
and/or substantially amending, revising, waiving, voiding, suspending,
interfering and/or abrogating, any provision of the Operations Manual,
the Procurement & Contract Management Manual, the Revised
Environmental 
and 
Social 
Management 
Framework, 
the
Environmental Codes of Practice, the Social Management Framework
and/or the Vulnerability Framework, whether in whole or in part,
without the prior written mutual agreement of the Bank.
2. 
In the event of any inconsistency between any of the provisions of the
Operations Manual, the Procurement & Contract Management Manual, the
Revised 
Environmental 
and 
Social 
Management 
Framework, 
the
Environmental Codes of Practice, the Social Management Framework and/or
the Vulnerability Framework, and those of this Agreement, the provisions of
this Agreement shall prevail.
C. 
Implementation Arrangements with Participating States
1. 
The Borrower, through NRRDA, shall cause each Participating State and its
respective SRRDA to execute and furnish to NRRDA a Letter of Undertaking,
in a manner and substance acceptable to the Bank, which shall provide, inter
alia, that
(a) 
the Participating State and its SRRDA declare their commitment to the
objective of the Project. To this end, the Participating State and its
SRRDA shall carry out their Respective Parts of the Project in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the finds, facilities, services
and other resources required for their Respective Parts of the Project;
(b) 
the Participating State shall carry out its Respective Parts of the Project
through its SRRDA and the respective Program Implementation Unit
which shall be staffed with qualified personnel, in adequate numbers,
to be responsible for the day-to-day implementation of the Project in
such Participating State;
(c) 
the Participating State and its SRRDA shall carry out their Respective
Parts of the Project in accordance with the Operations Manual, the
Procurement 
& Contract Management 
Manual, the Revised
Environmental 
and 
Social 
Management 
Framework, 
the
Environmental Codes of Practice, the Social Management Framework,
the Vulnerability Framework, and the Anti-Corruption Guidelines;
(d) 
prior to the initiation of any civil works for any Project-related
physical infrastructure, the Participating State and its SRRDA shall
ensure that the Detailed Project Reports for any such physical
infrastructure: (i) siall have been screened as per the Revised
Environmental 
and 
Social 
Management 
Framework, 
the
Environmental Codes of Practice, the Social Management Framework,
-10-
and the Vulnerability Framework; and (ii) shall have included the
mitigation, remedial and/or compensatory measures mandated by such
frameworks and codes of practice as recommended by the screening
and impact assessment carried out thereunder;
(e) 
prior to the hiring/engagement of any consulting services for the
provision of technical assistance for its Respective Parts of the Project
in relation to the construction, rehabilitation, improvement of, and/or
retrofitting of new designs and/or technologies for any Project-related
physical infrastructure, the Participating State and its SRRDA shall
ensure that the terms of reference for any such consultants' services
incorporate the applicable intemational performance, technical,
environmental and social standards set forth in the Bank's Safeguards
Policies then in force, that might be relevant to the technical support
provided, or advice conveyed, through such consulting services; and
(f) 
the Participating State and its SRRDA shall ensure that all goods,
works and services required for the Participating State's and its
SRRDA's Respective Parts of the Project shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of the Procurement Regulations.
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, the Borrower, through
NRRDA, shall ensure that, prior to the carrying out of any pilot civil works
under Part A.2 of the Project: (a) the respective Participating State (other than
a Selected Participating State) and its SRRDA and the relevant Detailed Project
Report for the proposed civil works, shall have been appraised by the Bank;
and (b) the Bank shall have confirmed, in writing, its no-objection to the
carrying out of such activities by said Participating State as per the submitted
Detailed Project Report.
Section H. 
Project Monitoring Reportine and Evaluation
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, covering the calendar
quarter.
Section M. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article 11 of the General Conditions
and in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter,
the Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible
Expenditures; and (b) pay: (i) the Front-end Fee; and (ii) each Interest Rate
Cap or Interest Rate Collar premium; in the amount allocated and, if applicable,
up to the percentage set forth against each Category of the following table:
-11-
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Expenditures to be
Category 
Allocated 
financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) 
Program of Eligible
Expeditres150,000,000 
50%
Expenditures
(2) 
Program of Eligible 
348,750,000 
50%
Expenditures
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
(3) 
Front-end Fee 
1,250,000 
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of
the General Conditions
(4) 
Interest 
Rate 
Cap 
or 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest 
Rate 
Collar 
0 
Section 4.05 (c) of the
premium 
-
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
500,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed one hundred
million United States dollars (USD 100,000,000) may be made under
Category (1) above, for payments made prior to this date but on or after
June 1, 2017 
for the financing of the Program of Eligible
Expenditures; or
(b) 
for the Program of Eligible Expenditure under Category (2) above
unless and until the Borrower has furnished to the Bank evidence, in
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, that the DLR(s) with
respect to which the withdrawal has been requested has been fully
achieved, including the relevant Verification Report(s) certifying: (i)
the achievement of the such DLR(s); (ii) the Borrower's incurrence of
payments, and/or reasonable forecast of payments to be incurred,
consistent with the Program of Eligible Expenditures, and in
compliance with the safeguards and procurement arrangements
provided for in this Agreement, the Operations Manual and the
Procurement & Contract Management Manual; (iii) the construction,
rehabilitation and/or retrofitting of eligible rural roads in accordance
with the relevant civil works contract; and (iv) in respect of civil works
for Part A of the Project, the relevant expenditures' compliance with
the eligibility criteria set forth in paragraph 2 of Section I of this
Schedule 2.
-12-
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.l(b) of this Section m:
(a) 
if, with respect to any DLR(s), the Bank is not satisfied that such
DLR(s) has/have been fully achieved by the end of the DLR Period
corresponding to such DLR in the table in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement, then the Bank may, at any time, by notice to the Borrower,
decide to: (i) authorize the withdrawal of all or a portion of the
unwithdrawn proceeds of the Loan then allocated to such DLR(s), at
such later date if and when the Bank shall be satisfied, on the basis of
evidence acceptable to the Bank, that such DLR has been fully
achieved prior to the Closing Date; (ii) reallocate all or a portion of the
proceeds of the Loan then allocated to such DLR(s) to any other
DLR(s); and/or (iii) cancel all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan
then allocated to such DLR(s); and
(b) 
if, at any time, the Bank determines that any amounts of the Loan were
withdrawn without evidence of actual spending by the Borrower under
the Program of Eligible Expenditures or without evidence of
satisfaction of other ciiteria set forth in this Agreement, the Borrower
shall refund any such amounts to the Bank as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.
3. 
Any withdrawal applications made by the Borrower for the reimbursement of
payments made, and/or the provision of advance amounts for payment to be
made, under the Program of Eligible Expenditures shall be first attributed to,
and drawn down from, Category (1) of the table set forth in Section HLA of
this Schedule 2, and then, upon exhaustion of the amount allocated from time
to time to such Category (1), to/from Category (2) of the aforementioned table.
The Borrower shall ensure that any such withdrawal applications shall be
netted from any payments under the Program of Eligible Expenditures
previously reimbursed and/or advanced by any other financier contributing to
financing the same PMGSY rural roads program activities.
4. 
The Closing Date is December 15, 2020.
SCHEDULE 3
Disbursement Linked Indicators, Disbursement Linked Results and Allocated Amounts
DISBURSEMENT-LINKED 
DISBURSEMENT-LINKED
INDICATORS 
RESULTS
1. 
Number of habitations in 
USD 20 million upon achievement
Selected Participating States 
of improved connectivity to at least
benefited with improved 
four hundred (400) benefited
connectivity either through 
Two thousand (2000) benefited 
habitations, and USD 5 million for
constructions of new roads 
habitations 
each additional one hundred (100)
or the rehabilitation of 
habitations with improved
existing roads in poor 
connectivity thereafter, up to a
conditions 
maximum of USD 115 million
USD 4 million upon the
2.1. Number of Districts which 
establishment of databases in at
have established GIS-based 
Twenty (20) Disicts with 
least four (4) Districts, and USD I
road and bridge inventory 
Tetablishe 
tbases 
million for each additional District
and condition database 
establis 
with an established database
(including videography) 
thereafter, up to a maximum of
USD 23 million
NRRDA has issued a Project
Preparation Manual for rural roads
with templates containing the data
used to prepare the detailed
engineering designs, and the
2.2. Improved planning system 
SRRDAs of at least two (2) 
USD 10 million
Participating States have utilized
such manual in the preparation of
detailed engineering designs for the
civil works of at least one rural road
under Part A. I or A.2 of the Project
USD 10 million upon the
constructions of at least four
2.3. Kilometers of rural roads in 
hundred (400) kIn of green and
Selected Participating States, 
Two thousand kilometers (2,000 
climate-resilient and new
constructed using green, 
km) of green, climate-resilient and 
technologies, and USD 5 million
climate-resilient and new 
new technologies 
for every additional two hundred
technologies 
(200) km built thereafter, up to a
maximum of USD 57 million
2.4. Kilometer of rural roads for 
USD 4 million upon the completion
which the SRRDAs of 
of vulnerability assessment in
Participating States have 
Five thousand kilometers (5,000 
Participating States for at least one
undertaken (and completed) 
km) of rural roads assessed 
thousand (1000) km of rural roads;
climate vulnerability 
and, and USD 1 million for each
assessments 
additional two hundred fifty (250)
nkm of rural roads assessed
- 14 
DISBURSEMENT-LINKED 
DISBURSEMENT-LINKED 
ALLOCATED AMOUNTS
INDICATORS 
RESULTS
thereafter, up to a maximum of
USD 23 million
USD 4 million upon the adoption of
road safety action plans by at least
2.5. Number of Participating 
two (2) Participating State; and
States that have prepared and 
Ten (10) Participating States with 
USD 2 million per additional
adopted road safety action 
adopted road safety action plans 
Participating State adopting such
plans for their rural roads 
plan thereafter, up to a maximum of
USD 23 million.
NRRDA has issued a revised
Procurement & Contract
Management Manual for the
2.6. Revised Procurement & 
Project, and the SRRDAs of at least
Contract Management 
five (5) Selected Participating States 
USD 10 million
Manual. 
have adopted and utilized it in the
implementation of civil works under
the PMGSY rural roads program
USD 6 million upon the adoption of
3.1. Number of Participating 
asset management plans by at least
States that have prepared and 
two (2) Participating State, and
adopted asset management 
Ten (10) Participating States with 
USD 3 million per additional
plans for the operation and 
adopted asset management plans 
Participating States adopting such
maintenance of their rural 
plan thereafter, up to a maximum of
roads. 
USD 34 million.
3.2. Number of Districts which
have implemented 
USD 5 million upon the
performance-based/ 
performance-based/community-
community-based 
Thrtyr 
(30) Districts withy 
based contracting by at least five
maintenance contracting 
performance-based/communmty- 
(5) Districts, and USD I million for
(including those implemented 
based m 
nancl contracts for 
each additional District using such
by women self-help groups) 
contracting modalities thereafter, up
for their respective rural 
to a maximum of USD 34 million
roads.
USD 4 million upon the disclosure
3-3. Number of Districts which 
of annual maintenance plan by at
have publicly disclosed in 
Twenty (20) Districts with disclosed 
least four (4) Districts; and USD I
OMMAS or SRRDA's 
annual maintenance plans for their 
million per any additional District
websites their annual 
rural roads 
disclosing such plans thereafter, up
maintenance plans 
to a maximum of USD 23 million
4.1. Number of NRRDA and 
USD 4 million upon the training
SRRDA staff which have been 
Two thousand (2,000) staff 
accreditation of at least four
SRRD stff hic hae ben accredited 
hundred (400) staff; and USD 
I
accredited after completing a 
million per every one hundred (100)
minimum of two (2) training 
additional staff accredited
-15-
DISBURSEMENT-LINKED 
DISBURSEMENT-LINKED 
ALLOCATED AMOUNTS
INDICATORS 
RESULTS
modules under the PMGSY 
thereafter, up to a maximum of
Training Framework- 
USD 23 million
USD 5 million upon the disclosure
4.2. Number of Districts which 
of annual performance reports by at
have prepared and disclosed 
Twenty (20) Districts with disclosed 
least five (5) Districts; and USD 1
their annual performance 
annual performance reports in 
million per any additional District
reports in 
O MA 
eOMM 
S4S 
disclosing such reports thereafter,
up to a maximum of USD 23
million
SCHEDULE 4
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share").
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
On each June 15 and December 15
Beginning June 15, 2021 
5%
through December 15, 2030
-17-
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Allocated Amount" means the amount allocated to each individual DLR, or
determined for each DLR pursuant to the respective formula set forth in the third
column of the table provided in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
3. 
"Bank's Safeguards Policies" means the Bank's operational policies and
procedures set forth in the Bank's Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04,
4.36, 4.10,4.11, and 4.12, as published under www.WorldBank.org/opmanual.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section I.A of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
5. 
"Detailed Project Reports" means each of the detailed engineering reports prepared
or to be prepared by a Participating State and its SRRDA, in respect of any rural
roads and bridges to be constructed, rehabilitated, upgraded or retrofitted under the
PMGSY rural roads program, including detailed survey and investigations, design
and technology of choice, as well as social and environmental impacts and
mitigation measures therefor, all in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 6
(Project Preparation) of the Operations Manual.
6. 
"Disbursement-Linked Indicator" and the acronym "DLI" mean each of the
disbursement-linked indicators set forth in the first column of the table provided
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
7. 
"Disbursement-Linked Result" and the acronym "DLR" mean each of the
disbursement-linked targets/results set forth in the second column of the table
provided in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
8. 
"District" means an administrative subdivision of a Participating State.
9. 
"DLR Period" means, in respect of any DLR, the period specified in the table
provided in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, during which such DLR is set to be
achieved.
10. 
"Environmental Codes of Practice" means the environmental codes of practice,
developed and approved by the Borrower for the implementation of the PMGSY
rural roads program, as revised through March 22, 2018, providing guidance to the
- 18 
Participating States to avoid, minimize and mitigate the environmental impacts of
Project activities during their implementation; as such codes may be amended,
updated and/or supplemented from time to time with the prior written concurrence
of the Bank.
11. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project
Financing", dated July 14, 2017.
12. 
"GIS" means a geographical information system capturing, analyzing, managing
and presenting spatial and geographic data in respect of rural roads in Participating
States.
13. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the incremental expenses incurred by
NRRDA and/or the Participating States, through their SRRDAs, on account of the
management, implementation, monitoring and/or evaluation of their Respective
Parts of the Project, including, but no limited to: incremental staff salaries, per
diem and allowances, office rent, office supplies, utilities, conveyance, travel and
boarding/lodging allowances, operating and maintenance expenditures of office
equipment and vehicles, bank charges, insurance, advertising, media projections,
newspaper subscriptions, periodicals, and printing and stationary costs incurred for
the purposes of Project activities; but excluding salaries, fees, honoraria, bonuses,
dand any other salary supplements of members of the Borrower's and/or the
Participating States' civil service.
14. 
"IT" means information technology.
15. 
"Letter of Undertaking" means each of the letters to be entered by any state of the
Borrower as a requisite for such state to become a Participating State, as prescribed
in Section C. 1 of Schedule 2 of this Agreement.
16. 
"Link Routes" means, collectively, the rural roads connecting a single habitation
or a group of habitations to Through Routes or District roads leading to market
centers, as defined in the paragraph 3.1.7 of Chapter 3 (Planning) of the Operations
Manual.
17. 
"MoRD" means the Borrower's Ministry of Rural Development.
18. 
"MoRTIH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Road Transport and Highways.
19. 
"NRRDA" means the Borrower's National Rural Roads Development Agency
(now known as the National Rural Infrastructure Development Agency - NRIDA),
a society established and operating in good standing under the laws of the
Borrower, and registered pursuant to the Borrower's Society Registration Act XX
of 1860, under registration No. S:41223 of 2002, of January 140, 2002.
-A
- 19 
20. 
"On-line Management, Monitoring and Accounting System" and the acronym
"OMMAS" mean the centralized freely and publicly accessible web-based
database, established by the Borrower pursuant to Chapter 12 (Monitoring) of the
Operations 
Manual for purposes of monitoring and providing financial
management information related to the release and utilization of PMGSY rural
roads program's funds as well as reporting on the status of progress of civil works
and the quality thereof.
21. 
"Operations Manual" means the operations manual for the PMGSY rural roads
program, dated February 2005 as revised to the Signature Date, which includes
detailed guidelines and procedures for the implementation, supervision and
monitoring of the Project, as the same may amended, updated and/or supplemented
from time to time with the prior written concurrence of the Bank. The term
"Operations Manual" shall be construed to include the supplemental manual for
the selection of external auditors.
22. 
"Original Project" means the PMGSY rural road program-related activities
described in Schedule 1 to the financing agreement, dated January 14, 2011,
entered into between the Borrower and the International Development Association
for the provision of two credits (Cr. No. 4848-IN and 4849-IN) for up to an amount
of six hundred thirty-six million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 636,300,000).
23. 
"Participating State" means any of the States of the Borrower which has entered
into a Letter of Undertaking for purposes of carrying out its Respective Parts of
the Project (including the Selected Participating States).
24. 
"PMGSY" means the Borrower's Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana rural road
program, launched by the Borrower in December 2000 to provide connectivity to
rural habitations with population greater than five hundred (500) dwellers (or 250
dwellers in hilly states, deserts or tribal and backward Districts).
25. 
"PMGSY Assessment Report" means the assessment report prepared by the Bank
for purposes of further enhancing the design and implementation of PMGSY, and
accepted by NRRDA on February 26, 2018.
26. 
"PMGSY District Rural Road Plans" means the compendium of existing and
proposed rural road network system in a given District, identifying proposed all-
weather roads for connecting the yet unconnected habitations, to be prepared by
the District authorities and approved by the relevant local and state-level
governments, pursuant to Chapter 3 (Planning) of the Operations Manual.
27. 
"PMGSY Guidelines" means Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana Programme
Guidelines issued by NRRDA on January 2015, as amended to the Signature Date.
L
- 20 
28. 
"PMGSY Training Framework" means the training framework prepared by
NRRDA for purposes of developing the institutional capacity of rural road
agencies, and approved pursuant to the memorandum of understanding entered into
by and between NRRDA and the National Institute of Rural Development 
Panchayati Raj, of MoRD and the Indian Academy of Highway Engineers,
MoRTH, dated February 2, 2017.
29. 
"Procurement & Contract Management Manual" means the procurement and
contract management manual for the PMGSY rural roads program, dated
December 20, 2011, as revised to the Signature Date, as the same may amended,
updated and/or supplemented from time to time with the prior written concurrence
of the Bank.
30. 
"Procurement Regulations" means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF
Borrowers", dated July 2016, revised November 2017.
31. 
"Program Implementation Unit" means each of the implementation units set up
within a SRRDAs, operating at a District level in a Participating State, and referred
to in sub-paragraph 1(b) of Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
32. 
"Program of Eligible Expenditures" means: (a) all works (as certified through the
OMMAS pursuant to Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement), goods, non-
consulting services, consulting services, Training and Workshops and Incremental
Operating Costs incurred by NRRDA, the Selected Participating States and their
SRRDAs in the implementation of their respective activities under Part A. 1 the
Project; (b) all works (as certified though the OMMAS pursuant to Section I.A.2
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement), goods, non-consulting services, consulting
services, Training and Workshops and Incremental Operating Costs incurred by
NRRDA, the Participating States and their SRRDAs in the implementation of their
respective activities under Part A.2 the Project; (c) all works (as certified though
the OMMAS pursuant to Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement), goods,
non-consulting services, consulting services, and Training and Workshops
incurred by NRRDA, the Selected Participating States and their SRRDAs which
have entered Letters of Undertaking prior to January 1, 2018, in the
implementation of their respective activities under Part A.3 of the Project; and (d)
all goods, consulting services, non-consulting services, Training and Workshops
and Incremental Operating Costs incurred by NRRDA, the Participating States and
their SRRDAs in the implementation of their respective activities under Part B of
the Project.
33. 
"Project Affected Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of the
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts
caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of
shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or
-21 
means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to another location;
or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected
areas, resulting in adverse impact on the livelihoods of such persons.
34. 
"Project Preparation Manual" means the preparation manual for the PMGSY rural
roads program to be prepared by NRDDA for the Project, which includes: (a) the
procedural instructions and applicable standards for the carrying out of surveys
and investigations required for the designing of roads geometry, pavement, culvers
and bridges; (b) the assessment and determination of necessary road safety
measures, and green and climate resilient technologies to be employed; and (c) the
templates to be utilized in the presentation of design data and detailed drawing for
any rural roads proposed to be financed under the Project; as such manual may be
amended, updated and/or supplemented from time to time with the prior written
concurrence of the Bank.
35. 
"Respective Parts of the Project" means:
(a) 
for NRRDA, Part B of the Project;
(b) 
for each Participating State, Parts A.2, and B of the Project; and
(c) 
for each Selected Participating State, Parts A and B of the Project.
36 
"Revised Environmental and Social Management Framework" means the
environmental and social management framework dated March 22, 2018, which
sets forth a framework of social and environmental actions, measures and policies
applicable to the Project, and designed to maximize the benefits thereunder, avoid
or mitigate any adverse impacts, and in the case of the Project Affected Persons, if
such adverse impacts cannot be avoided altogether, provide such Project Affected
Persons with alternative opportunities to enhance or restore their livelihoods, as
such framework may be amended, updated and/or supplemented from time to time
with the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
37. 
"Selected Participating States" means each of the Borrower's Participating States
of Bihar, Jharkhand, Himachal Pradesh, Meghalaya, Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttara
Khand, Uttar Pradesh, and Tripura, selected by the Borrower and appraised by the
Bank for the carrying out activities under Part A. 1 and Part A.3 of the Project, as
well as any other state of the Borrower selected from time to time with the prior
written concurrence of the Bank, to take part in such activities.
38. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the
date of the Loan Agreement" in the General Conditions.
- 22 
39. 
"Social Management Framework" means the social management (resettlement and
participation) framework, dated March 2018, which forms part of the Revised
Environmental and Social Management Framework, and sets forth the principles,
responsibilities and procedures for screening Project activities and surveying,
determining, consulting, engaging and/or compensating, as the case may be, the
Project Affected Persons and/or Tribal Groups impacted by the Project, as such
framework may be amended, updated and/or supplemented, from time to time,
with the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
40. 
"SRRDA" means each of the Participating States' State-Level Rural Road
Development Agency, an autonomous agency/society with distinct legal status, (to
be) established and operating under the laws of the Borrower, and registered
pursuant to the Borrower's Society Registration Act XXI of 1860, as prescribed in
paragraph 2.2.3 of Chapter 2 (State Level Institutional Structure) of the Operations
Manual.
41. 
"Sustainable Development Goals" means the collection of seventeen (17) global
social and economic sustainable development goals established by the United
Nations pursuant to the Resolution A/RES/70/1 of September 25, 2015, and
proposed to be achieved by 2030.
42. 
"Through Routes" means, collectively, roads which collect traffic from several
link roads or a long chain of habitations and lead to marketing centers either
directly or through a higher category of roads, as defined in paragraph 3.1.7 of
Chapter 3 (Planning) of the Operations Manual.
43. 
"Training and Workshops" means the reasonable costs of training, workshops and
conferences required for the Project and conducted in the territory of the Borrower
and, subject to the Bank's prior approval, overseas, including training institutional
and course fees, logistics expenses, rental of training facilities, purchase and
publication of training materials, and travel and subsistence allowance for trainers
and/or trainees.
44. 
"Tribal Groups" means any distinct, vulnerable, social and cultural group within
the territory of the Borrower, that: (a) self-identifies as such and claims, and is
recognized by others as, having a distinguishable cultural identity, (b) has
collective attachment to geographically distinct habitats or ancestral territories in
the Project area, and to the natural resources in these habitat and territories; (c) has
customary cultural, economic, social and political institutions that are separate
from those of the dominant society and culture; (d) has an indigenous language,
often different from the official languages of the Borrower and/or (e) as defined
by the Constitution of India.
45. 
"Verification Report" means each of the reports to be prepared by independent
expert(s) pursuant to Section I.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, in accordance
- 23 
with the verification protocol agreed with the Bank, for purposes of certifying the
achievements of DLI(s)/DLR(s) and the incurrence of expenditures eligible for
financing under the Program of Eligible Expenditures, which reports shall serve as
the basis for the processing of Loan withdrawal applications.
46. 
"Vulnerability Framework" means the framework dated March 2018, which sets
forth the measures designed to ensure meaningful consultations and informed
participation of vulnerable population (associated with gender, cast, identification
with Tribal Groups and/or other vulnerable and/or minority identities) in the
design and implementation of the PMGSY rural roads program's activities, as well
as their partaking in the Project-derived benefits, all in culturally appropriate and
socially inclusive manner; as such framework may be amended, updated and/or
supplemented, from time to time, with the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
