OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8816-PH
Loan Agreement
(Additional Financing for Philippine Rural Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between the REPUBLIC OF THE
PHILIPPINES ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing additional financing for the
Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower has requested additional financing from the Bank
for the "Expansion of the Philippine Rural Development Project" in an amount of four
hundred and fifty million United States Dollars ($450,000,000); and (B) after an internal
review, the Bank has proposed to extend a loan in an amount of one hundred and seventy
million United States Dollars ($170,000,000), at this time, for the purpose of providing
additional financing to scale up the Original Project.
(B) the Borrower and the Bank acknowledge that the Borrower is referring to the
Project as the "Expansion of the Philippine Rural Development Project" whereas the Bank
is referring to it as the "Additional Financing for the Philippine Rural Development
Project".
NOW, THEREFORE, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of one hundred and seventy
million Dollars ($170,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to
time through a Currency Conversion ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
-2-
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread, or such rate as
may apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through its Department of Agriculture
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Secretary of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Department of Finance
Department of Finance Building
Bangko Sentral Complex
Roxas Blvd.
Manila, Philippines
Facsimile:
(63-2) 523-9216
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
-3-
64145(MCI)
AGREED at Manilla, Republic of the Philippines, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By
Authorized Representative
FEB 22 2018
Name: 
09jgj,ad 6. 
t/A ug
Title: 
90oe'779Ayll 
00cF_
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Au thorie R LLt C 4
Authorized Representative
mt4kcl a, 020/9-
Name: A-4^qA 
&JeW4j0WJC..t
Title:_______________C- b P
-4-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to increase rural incomes and enhance farm and
fishery productivity in the Targeted Areas.
The Project consists of only Parts 2 and 4 of the Original Project, as described below:
Part 1. Local and National Level Planning
[intentionally left blank]
Part 2. Infrastructure Development
2.1 
Value Chain Infrastructure Support. Carrying out of specific Sub-projects to
support infrastructure development by Participating LGUs in priority commodity value
chains (including, among others, farm-to-market roads, bridges, tire tracks, communal
irrigation, potable water systems, post-harvest facilities, production facilities, fish landings,
fish sanctuaries, tram lines, storage facilities, trading posts, green houses, solar driers,
watch towers, and slope stabilization works).
2.2 
Approaches for Improving the Effectiveness and Sustainability of Infrastructure
Investments. Development of technical specifications for climate resiliency and disaster
risk mitigation for local infrastructure.
Part 3. Enterprise Development
[intentionally left blank]
Part 4. Project Implementation Support
Provision of technical and operational assistance for the day-to-day coordination,
implementation, monitoring, evaluation and audit of the Project.
-5-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
1 
(a) 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project, through the DA, in accordance
with the Operations Manuals, the AFMP and the RAFMPs.
(b) 
The operations manual prepared and adopted for Part 2.1 of the Project
shall include, inter alia, the descriptions of: (i) eligibility criteria,
procedures and guidelines for the selection, approval, administration and
supervision of Sub-projects including those set out in Section IC and
Attachment 
1 
to this Schedule 2; (ii) the conditions governing
Infrastructure Development Grants; (iii) a list of items or activities not
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan through Sub-projects;
and (iv) the Sub-project's engineering design, operating and maintenance
procedures.
(c) 
The Borrower shall not amend, revise, waive, void, suspend or abrogate,
or allow to be amended, revised, waived, voided, suspended or abrogated,
any provision of the Operations Manuals, without the prior written
concurrence of the Bank.
(d) 
In case of any inconsistency between the provisions of the Operations
Manuals and those of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement
shall prevail.
2. 
The Borrower shall maintain throughout the period of implementation of the
Project, with composition, terms of reference, staffing and other resources
acceptable to the Bank, and with detailed functions and powers as set out in the
Operations Manuals:
(a) 
an NPCO, to be responsible, inter alia, for implementation of the overall
institutional reforms planned for the DA under the Project and
coordination of the relevant government agencies involved in the
implementation of the Project;
(b) 
an NPAB, to be responsible, inter alia, for overall direction and oversight
of Project implementation;
(c) 
RPABs, each chaired by the regional director of DA, to be responsible,
inter alia, for the oversight of Project implementation at the regional level;
-6-
(d) 
RPCOs within the respective DA regional field offices to be responsible,
inter alia, for coordination and management of Project implementation at
the regional level; and
(e) 
PSOs to be responsible, inter alia, for providing support to the RPCOs.
3. 
[intentionally left blank].
4. 
The Borrower shall, through the NPCO: (i) furnish to the Bank, not later than
October 31 in each year, starting on the first October 31 after the date of
effectiveness of this Agreement, for review and comments, an annual work plan
and financing plan for the implementation of the Project in the following year
prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Operations Manuals; and
(ii) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower
on said plan and, thereafter, promptly take all actions necessary to implement said
plan, taking into account the views of the Bank on the matter.
5. 
The Borrower shall maintain, throughout the course of implementation, a unified
and integrated platform of publicly accessible, geo-tagged and geo-mapped
records of all Sub-projects.
6. 
The Borrower shall implement planning guidelines that require all technical and
attached agencies of the DA to coordinate with and provide support to RFOs in
implementation of the relevant PCIP and to make appropriate provisions in their
annual budgets for the same.
7. 
The Borrower shall maintain the NPAB, with composition, terms of reference,
staffing and other resources acceptable to the Bank.
B. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that all terms of reference for any technical assistance
or studies carried out under the Project are consistent with, and pay due attention
to, the Bank Policies, as well as the Borrower's own laws relating to the
environment and social aspects relevant to the Project.
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project shall be implemented in accordance
with the guidelines, procedures, timetables and other specifications set forth in the
Safeguards Documents.
3. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing and subject to compliance with
applicable consultation and public disclosure requirements of the Bank, the
Borrower shall not abrogate, amend, repeal, suspend or waive any provisions of
any of the Safeguards Documents, nor shall it permit any entity participating in the
implementation of the Project to do so.
4. 
Without limitation upon its other reporting obligations under this Agreement, the
Borrower shall regularly collect, compile and submit to the Bank, on a semi-annual
-7-
basis and promptly in a separate report whenever the circumstances warrant,
reports on the status of compliance with the Safeguard Documents, giving details
of: (a) measures taken in furtherance of the Safeguard Documents; (b) conditions,
if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the smooth implementation of
the Safeguards Documents; and (c) remedial measures taken or required to be
taken to address such conditions.
5. 
The Borrower shall maintain and operate throughout the period of Project
implementation, a grievance redress mechanism for the handling of any
stakeholder complaints arising out of the implementation of the Project activities.
The operation and procedures of such grievance redress mechanism shall be
subject to guidelines agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
6. 
If any provision of the Safeguards Documents shall conflict with any provision
under this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
C. 
Sub-projects
1 .
To facilitate the carrying out and financing of Part 2.1 of the Project, the Borrower
shall make part of the proceeds of the Loan available to Participating LGUs on a
grant basis ("Grant") for the purpose of making Infrastructure Development
Grants.
2. 
Prior to making an Infrastructure Development Grant to a Participating LGU, the
Borrower shall:
(a) 
ensure that each Participating LGU has the organization, management and
resources satisfactory to the Bank for carrying out the proposed Sub-
projects; and
(b) 
enter into a grant agreement between the Borrower, through its DA, and
each Participating LGU ("Implementation Management Agreement"),
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, as set out in
Attachment 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and which shall also
include the following: (i) the implementation responsibilities of the DA
and the Participating LGU in the implementation of the Sub-projects; (ii)
the specification of eligible expenditures that may be financed from the
proceeds of the Grant; (iii) financial management and audit procedures
consistent with those provisions set out in the Operations Manuals;
(iv) procurement procedures consistent with Section III of this Schedule;
(v) monitoring and reporting arrangements; and (vi) arrangements for
implementation of the Safeguards Documents.
3. 
Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph 2(b) of this Section, including
the terms and conditions set out in Attachment 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
the Borrower, through its DA, shall obtain rights under each Implementation
Management Agreement adequate to protect its interests and those of the Bank,
-8-
including the right to: (i) suspend or terminate the right of the Participating LGU
to use the proceeds of the Grant, or obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount
of the Grant then withdrawn, upon the Participating LGU's failure to perform any
of its obligations under the Implementation Management Agreement; and (ii)
require each Participating LGU to: (A) carry out its Sub-project with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, economic, financial,
managerial, environmental and social standards and practices satisfactory to the
Bank, including in accordance with the Safeguards Documents and the provisions
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of loan proceeds other
than the Borrower; (B) provide, promptly as needed, the resources required for the
purpose; (C) procure the goods, works and services to be financed out of the Grant
in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement; (D) maintain policies and
procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate in accordance with
indicators acceptable to the Bank, the progress of the Sub-project and the
achievement of its objectives; (E) (1) maintain a financial management system and
prepare financial reports in a format acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank, both
in a manner adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related
to the Sub-project; and (2) at the Bank's or the Borrower's request, have such
financial reports audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank,
and promptly furnish the statements as so audited to the Borrower and the Bank;
(F) enable the Bank to inspect the Sub-project, its operation and any relevant
records and documents; and (G) prepare and furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing.
4. 
The Borrower shall: 
(a) exercise its rights under each Implementation
Management Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and (b) except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any
Implementation Management Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section H. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
Without limitation on the provisions in the Disbursement and Financial Management
Letter, the Borrower shall:
(a) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank,
on or about September 30, 2019, a mid-term evaluation report integrating the
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph
1 of this Part A, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during
the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
-9-
(b) 
review with the Bank, by November 30, 2019, or such later date as the Bank shall
request, the report referred to in sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 2, and,
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions
and recommendations of the said report and the Bank's views on the matter.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1 .
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1 .
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works, and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: 
(a) National Competitive
Bidding subject to the additional provisions set out in paragraph 3 of this Section;
(b) Shopping; (c) Direct contracting; (d) Well-established Private Sector
Procurement Methods or Commercial Practices which have been found acceptable
to the Bank; and (e) Community Participation procedures in accordance with the
procedures included in the Operations Manuals, which have been found acceptable
to the Bank.
-10-
3. 
Additional National Competitive Bidding Provisions. The following provisions
shall apply to the procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services under
National Competitive Bidding procedures: (a) eligibility screening shall not be
applied, provided however that bids that do not contain any of the following
documents shall not pass the documentary compliance check: (i) evidence of the
required financial, technical or production capability; (ii) audited financial
statements; (iii) credit line or cash deposit certificate; (iv) bid security; and (v)
authority of the bid signatory; (b) a ceiling may be applied to bid prices provided
the following conditions are met: (i) bidding documents are obtainable free of
charge on a freely accessible website; (ii) the agency has procedures in place to
ensure that the ABC is based on engineer's estimate; (iii) the agency has trained
cost estimators on estimating prices and analyzing bid variance; and (iv) the
agency has established a system to monitor and report bid prices relative to ABC
and Engineer's Estimate; (c) domestic or regional preferences shall not be applied
in the evaluation of bids, and other preference in effect in the Philippines shall not
be used except with prior concurrence of the Bank; (d) foreign suppliers and
contractors shall be allowed to participate, if interested, without first being required
to associate with, or enter into joint venture, with local firms, and foreign bidders
shall be allowed to bid, even without registration, licensing, and other government
authorizations, leaving these requirements for after award and before signing of
contract; and (e) alternative procurement methods defined in the implementing
rules and regulations such as Limited Source Bidding, Direct Contracting and
Shopping as acceptable, and the use of the other alternative methods shall require
prior Bank concurrence.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; (c) Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications; (d) Single-source
Selection of consulting firms; (e) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of
the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants; and (f)
Single-source procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
-11-
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and
in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the
Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to finance Eligible Expenditures,
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar premium in the amount allocated and up
to the percentage set forth in the following table:
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) 
Goods, 
non- 
22,000,000 
100% of amounts disbursed
consulting 
services,
consultants' 
services,
Training and Operating
Costs for Parts 2.2 and 4
of the Project
(2) 
Infrastructure 
148,000,000 
100% of amounts disbursed
Development Grants under
Part 2.1 of the Project
(3) Interest Rate Cap or 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest 
Rate 
Collar 
Section 4.05 (c) of the
premium 
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
170,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the
Front-end Fee; or
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is May 31, 2021.
-12-
ATTACHMENT 1 TO SCHEDULE 2
IMPLEMENTATION MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
For the purposes of Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, each Implementation
Management Agreement between the Borrower and a Participating LGU shall include,
inter alia, the provisions set forth below.
1 .
The Borrower shall provide a Participating LGU an amount equivalent to ninety
percent (90%) of the cost of said LGU's Sub-project for Sub-projects under Part
2.1 of the Project.
2. 
Each Participating LGU shall:
(a) 
maintain, throughout the period of Project implementation, the
organization, management and resources, satisfactory to the Bank, for
carrying out Sub-projects; and
(b) 
establish, prior to the carrying out of any Sub-projects, and thereafter
maintain, a PPMIU throughout the period of Project implementation, with
composition, terms of reference, staffing and other resources acceptable to
the Bank, to be responsible for supporting project implementation
activities, preparing annual work plans and budgets, undertaking
monitoring and evaluation and overall accounting and financial
management; and
(c) 
carry out the Sub-projects with due diligence and efficiency, in conformity
with appropriate engineering, 
economic, 
financial, administrative,
technical, and agricultural practices and sound social and environmental
standards, as set forth in the Operations Manuals prepared and adopted for
the Project, and acceptable to the Bank, as well as in accordance with the
applicable PCIP, and provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required therefor.
3. 
The Participating LGU shall:
(a) 
(i) carry out an environmental screening for the proposed Sub-project in
accordance with the provisions of the ESSF (including the EMFG);
(ii) prior to the commencement of any works, prepare, hold consultations
on and disclose an ESMP, satisfactory to the Bank; (iii) carry out the Sub-
project in accordance with the ESMP; (iv) not amend, suspend or abrogate
any of the provisions of the ESMP without the prior approval of the Bank;
and (iv) in the event an environment compliance certificate is required
under Philippine law or regulations, such certificate has been obtained
-13-
from DENR or its instrumentality at the regional level in respect of the
activities under said Sub-project; and
(b) 
if the activities under the proposed Sub-project give rise to Displaced
Persons: (i) prepare, hold consultations on and disclose, prior to the
commencement of any works, a Resettlement Action Plan ("RAP"), in
accordance with the provisions of the ESSF (including the LARRF); (ii)
carry out the Sub-project in accordance with the RAP including, unless
otherwise agreed with the Bank, payment in full of compensation to all
Displaced Persons prior to the commencement of any related works; (iv)
not amend, suspend or abrogate any of the provisions of the RAP without
the prior approval of the Bank; and
(c) 
if the activities under such proposed Sub-project involve Indigenous
Peoples, and if required according to said ESSF (including the IPPF): (i)
prepare, hold consultations on and disclose, prior to the commencement of
any works, an Indigenous Peoples Plan ("IPP"), in accordance with the
provisions of the ESSF (including the IPPF); (ii) carry out the Sub-project
in accordance with the IPP; (iv) not amend, suspend or abrogate any of the
provisions of the IPP without the prior approval of the Bank; and
(d) 
(i) not finance any Sub-project that involves a dam that is fifteen (15)
meters or more in height; and (ii) not finance any Sub-project that involves
a dam that is between ten (10) and fifteen (15) meters in height, without
the prior written approval of the Bank.
4. 
Each Participating LGU shall:
(a) 
procure goods, works and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(b) 
ensure that said goods are insured against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency
freely usable by the purchaser thereof to replace or repair such goods; and
(c) 
ensure that said goods, works and services are utilized exclusively for the
purpose of carrying out the Project.
5 
Each Participating LGU shall enable the Borrower and the Bank to examine all
goods, facilities, sites and works included in the Project, the operation thereof, and
any relevant records and documents.
-14-
6. 
Each Participating LGU shall ensure that any facilities, equipment and other
property relevant to the Project shall at all times be operated and maintained, and
that all necessary repairs and renewals thereof shall be promptly made, as needed,
all in accordance with sound financial, administrative and technical practices.
7. 
Each Participating LGU shall:
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the performance
indicators agreed with the Bank, the carrying out of the Sub-projects; and
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, a semi-annual
report summarizing the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities
performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) above of this paragraph 6, on
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Sub-projects during the
preceding calendar semester and setting out the measures recommended
to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of
the objectives thereof during the next semi-annual period following such
date and furnish the same to the Borrower to enable the Borrower to
consolidate and submit the information to the Bank as part of the Project
Reports.
8. 
Each Participating LGU shall maintain a financial management system and prepare
financial reports in a format acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower, both in a
manner adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to
each Sub-project.
9. 
Each Participating LGU shall have the financial reports for each Sub-project
referred to above audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank.
Each audit of these financial reports shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of
the Participating LGU. 
The audited financial reports for each period shall be
furnished to the Borrower not later than three (3) months after the end of the period
for consolidation by the Borrower and submission to the Bank in accordance with
the provisions of the Disbursement and Financial Management Letter.
-15-
SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share").
Level Principal Repayments
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning May 15, 2030
through November 15, 2040 
4.35%
On May 15, 2041 
4.30%
-16-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"ABC" means the approved budget for the contract, as defined in Section 5(a) of
the Borrower's Implementing Rules and Regulations of Government Procurement
Reform Act (GRPA), Republic Act No 9184.
2. 
"AFMP" means the agriculture and fisheries modernization plan which is prepared
and implemented by the DA under Republic Act 8435 of 1997 in consultation with
stakeholders and which includes plans on food security, poverty alleviation and
social equity, income enhancement and profitability, global competitiveness, and
sustainability.
3. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means for purpose of Section 5.14 of and paragraph
5 of the Appendix to the General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
5. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
6. 
"DA" or "Department of Agriculture" means the Borrower's Department of
Agriculture, and any successor or successors thereto.
7. 
"DENR" or "Department of Environment and Natural Resources" means the
Borrower's Department of Environment and Natural Resources, and any successor
or successors thereto.
8. 
"Displaced Person" means a person who, on account of the execution of the
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in (A) relocation or loss of
shelter (B) loss of assets or access to assets or (C) loss of income sources or means
of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; or (ii) the
involuntary restriction to access to legally designated parks and protected areas,
resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person, and "Displaced
Persons" means more than one such Displaced Person.
9. 
"EMFG" means the Borrower's environmental management framework and
guidelines, prepared by the Borrower and included in the ESSF, as acceptable to
-17-
the Bank, setting out the mitigating, monitoring and institutional measures to be
taken during the implementation and operation of the Project to offset or reduce
potential adverse environmental impacts to levels acceptable to the Bank.
10. 
"ESMP" means a site-specific environmental and social management plan, as
provided for under the ESSF (including the EMFG), to be prepared by the
Borrower, and satisfactory to the Bank, defining details of measures to manage
potential environmental and social risks and mitigate, reduce and/or offset adverse
environmental and social impacts associated with the implementation of activities
under the Project, together with adequate institutional, monitoring and reporting
arrangements capable of ensuring proper implementation of, and regular feedback
on compliance with, its terms, as the same may be amended and supplemented
from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank; and "ESMPs" refers to
more than one such ESMP.
11. 
"ESSF" means the environmental and social safeguards framework, for the
Project, dated November 28, 2012, updated June 5, 2014, disclosed in Infoshop on
June 6, 2014, which includes the EMFG, the IPPF, and the LARRF, and which: (i)
sets forth policies and procedures for the preparation of site-specific ESMPs, IPPs
and RAPs; and (ii) sets forth the mitigating, monitoring and institutional measures
to be taken during the implementation and operation of the Project to offset or
reduce potential adverse environmental and social impacts to levels acceptable to
the Bank.
12. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project
Financing", dated July 14, 2017, with the modifications set forth in Section II of
this Appendix.
13. 
"Implementation Management Agreement" means an agreement between the
Borrower, through its DA, and a Participating LGU for the purpose of carrying out
Sub-projects under Parts 2.1 of the Project.
14. 
"Indigenous Peoples" means social groups with a distinct social and cultural
identity that makes them vulnerable to being disadvantaged in the development
process, including the presence in varying degrees of the following characteristics:
(i) a close attachment to ancestral territories and to the natural resources in these
areas; (ii) self-identification and identification by others as members of a distinct
cultural group; (iii) an indigenous language, often different from Pilipino, the
Borrower's national language; (iv) presence of customary social and political
institutions; and (v) primarily subsistence-oriented production.
15. 
"Indigenous Peoples Plan" or "IPP" means an indigenous peoples plan to be
prepared by the Participating LGU in accordance with the IPPF and the Bank's
policy on indigenous peoples, pursuant to paragraph 3(c) of Attachment 1 to
-18-
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, setting forth, inter alia, a summary of the social
assessment undertaken to determine whether Indigenous People are present in or
have collective attachment to the Project area, a summary of the results of the free,
prior, and informed consultation with the affected Indigenous Peoples'
communities, a framework for ensuring free, prior, and informed consultation with
the affected Indigenous Peoples' communities, an action plan of measures to avoid,
minimize, mitigate, or compensate for adverse effects on affected Indigenous
People, cost estimates and financing, grievance mechanisms and mechanisms and
benchmarks appropriate to the Project for monitoring, evaluating, and reporting on
the implementation of the IPPF; and "IPPs" means more than one such IPP.
16. 
"Indigenous Peoples Policy Framework" or "IPPF" means the framework included
in the ESSF, prepared by the Borrower, which sets out: (i) the policies and
procedures to ensure adequate consultations with, and the informed participation
of, Indigenous Peoples who are affected by the Project, and (ii) the principles to
be applied in the preparation of IPPs as may be required during implementation of
the Project.
17. 
"Infrastructure Development Grant" is a grant made by the Borrower to a
Participating LGU under an Implementation Management Agreement for the
purpose of carrying out Sub-projects under Part 2.1 of the Project; and
"Infrastructure Development Grants" means more than one such Infrastructure
Development Grant.
18. 
"Land Acquisition, Resettlement, and Rehabilitation Policy Framework" or
"LARRF" means the framework prepared by the Borrower and included in the
ESSF, which sets out the procedures, rules, and guidelines for: (i) the involuntary
taking of land and other assets from Displaced Persons; (ii) resettlement and
rehabilitation of, and compensation to, Displaced Persons; and (iii) reporting and
monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with such framework, as such
framework may be amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the
Bank.
19. 
"NPAB" means the National Project Advisory Board, to be established in
accordance with Section I. A.2(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
20. 
"NPCO" means the National Project Coordination Office, established by the
Secretary of Agriculture through Special Order No.756 of 2012, issued November
20, 2013 and reconstituted through Special Order 776 of 2013, issued December
2, 2013 and referred to in Section I. A 2(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
21. 
"Operating Costs" means the reasonable incremental costs incurred by the
Borrower's NPCO, PSO and the RPCOs on account of the Project implementation,
monitoring and evaluation, which expenditures would not have been incurred
absent the project, including costs for office supplies, bank charges, advertising
-19-
costs, repairs of equipment and vehicles, staff travel; rental of office space, fuel
costs, and costs of contractual staff and remuneration of staff seconded, detailed
and assigned to the NPCO, PSOs and the RPCOs for Project support and
coordination, but excluding the salaries of the Borrower's civil servants.
22. 
"Operations Manuals" means, collectively, the manuals prepared and adopted by
the Borrower for each of Part of the Project, as well as the manuals prepared and
adopted by the Borrower for management and administration of the Project,
procurement, financial management, monitoring and evaluation, social and
environmental safeguards and communication strategy, each dated May 26, 2014,
and referred to in Section L.A 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such manuals
may be revised from time to time with the prior approval of the Bank.
23. 
"Original Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement for the Philippine Rural
Development Project between the Borrower and the Bank, dated September 8,
2014, as amended to the date of this Agreement (Loan No. 8421-PH).
24. 
"Original Project" means the Project described in Schedule 1 to the Original Loan
Agreement.
25. 
"Participating LGU" means a local government unit, which is a political
subdivision of the Borrower, selected in accordance with the eligibility criteria set
out in the Operations Manuals to participate in Project, and with which the
Borrower enters into an Implementation Management Agreement for the carrying
out of Sub-projects under Part 2.1 of the Project; and "Participating LGUs" means
more than one such Participating LGU.
26. 
"PCIP" means a provincial commodity investment plan to be developed and agreed
among the DA, Participating LGUs, and relevant stakeholders, for the purpose of
planning provincial commodity investments under the Project; and PCIPs means
more than one such PCIP.
27. 
"Philippine Peso" means the lawful currency of the Borrower.
28. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
29. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
November 21, 2017, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
30. 
"PPMIU" means the provincial project, management, and implementation unit
referred to in paragraph 2(b) of Attachment 1 to Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-20-
31. 
"PSO" means a project support office, referred to in Section I. A 2(e) of Schedule
2 to this Agreement; and "PSOs" means more than one such PSO.
32. 
"RAFMP" means the regional agriculture and fisheries modernization plan,
developed and implemented by the DA as a regional component of the AFMP and
prepared in consultation with stakeholders; and "RAFMPs" means more than one
such RAFMP.
33. 
"RAP" means the site-specific resettlement action plan and/or land acquisition
plan, to be prepared and adopted by the Participating LGU, pursuant to paragraph
3(b) of Attachment 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, acceptable to the Bank,
containing, inter alia, a program of actions, measures and policies for
compensation of persons affected by land acquisition, including budget and cost
estimates, and sources of funding, together with adequate institutional, monitoring
and reporting arrangements capable of ensuring proper implementation of, and
regular feedback on compliance with its terms for each site; and "RAPs" means more
than one such RAP.
34. 
"RFO" means a regional field office, responsible, inter alia, for preparing
RAFMPs, and for providing technical validation of priority regional commodity
value chains and programs under the PCIP. "RFOs" means more than one such
RFO.
35. 
"RPAB" means a regional project advisory board, referred to in Section I. A 2(c)
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and "RPABs" means more than one such RPAB.
36. 
"RPCO" means a regional project coordination office referred to in Section I.A
2(d) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and "RPCOs" means more than one such
RPCO.
37. 
"Safeguards Documents" means, collectively, the ESSF as well as the
Environmental and Social Management Plans, the Resettlement Action Plans, and
the Indigenous Peoples Plans prepared in accordance with the provisions of the
Environmental and Social Management Framework, if any.
38. 
"Signature Date" means the latest of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applied to all references to "the
date of the Loan Agreement" in the General Conditions.
39. 
"Sub-projects" means collectively, infrastructure developments carried out under
Part 2.1 of the Project, respectively, and the term "Sub-project" means any of the
Sub-projects.
40. 
"Targeted Areas" are those areas where the Project will be carried out, based on
the processes and procedures set out in the Operations Manuals.
-21-
41. 
"Training" means the reasonable costs of goods and services required for the
participation of personnel involved in training activities, workshops or study tours
under the Project, including travel and subsistence costs for training, workshop and
study tour participants, costs associated with securing the services of trainers,
rental of training and workshop facilities, preparation and reproduction of training
and workshop materials, and other costs directly related to training course,
workshop or study tour preparation and implementation, but excluding salaries of
consultants.
-22-
Section H. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
Section 5.13 (Procurement) is deleted in its entirety and the remaining section in
Article V is renumbered accordingly.
3. 
Paragraphs 84 (Procurement Plan) and 85 (Procurement Regulations) in the
Appendix are deleted in their entirety and the subsequent paragraphs are renumbered
accordingly.
