OFFICIAL 
DOCUMENTS 
LOAN NUMBER 8793-IQ 
Loan Agreement 
(Additional Loan for Emergency Operation for Development Project) 
between 
REPUBLIC OF IRAQ 
and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8793-IQ 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between REPUBLIC OF IRAQ 
("Borrower'') and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing additional financing for the 
Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Borrower and the 
Bank hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to 
and form part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix 
to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II -
LOAN 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of four hundred million 
Dollars ($400,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project"). 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section 
III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the 
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance. 
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may 
apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General 
Conditions. 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement. 
-2-
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end, 
the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions and Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS 
4.0 I. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date. 路 
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its minister responsible for finance. 
5.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: 
(a) 
the Borrower's address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
Hay Alaloom 
Bab Al Mu'dham 
Baghdad, Iraq; and 
(b) 
the Borrower's Electronic Address is: 
E-mail: s.hadeethi@mof.gov.iq 
5.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: 
(a) 
the Bank's address is: 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America; and 
(b) 
the Bank's Electronic Address is: 
Telex: 
248423(MCI) or 
64145(MCI) 
Facsimile: 
E-mail: 
1-202-477-6391 
idajani@worldbank.org 
-3-
AGREED as of the Signature Date. 
REPUBLIC OF IRAQ 
By 
1"-'6~ // 7~~~-
AuthoriJRepresentative 
Name: 
Date: ~ 
'fY \ \/ 
'7_g.. fl[ 
I 
J 
I 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
By 
Authorized Representative 
Name S~ l(..,_,,_ ~Q 
Title: ~i ~e l)ue.c.'to,c oS \Q.t. ~\.~~e~ t~ri 
~~~h,v,~~ 
路 
Date: ~\\mt 
~~ J ltO..\'i, 
-4-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description 
The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower in the reconstruction of 
damaged infrastructure and the restoration of public services delivery in Targeted 
Municipal Areas. 
The Project consists of the Original Project as amended below: 
Part 1: Restoring Electricity Infrastructure and Connectivity 
(a) 
Scaling up acquisition of equipment for the repair and reconstruction of damaged 
electricity distribution and transmission infrastructure in Selected Areas 
("Electricity Subprojects"). 
(b) 
Supporting in Selected Areas: (i) emergency electricity services generated from 
the private sector; and (ii) feasibility assessments on long term electricity 
generation and distribution services by private operators and on solar market 
development with a view to promoting use of renewable energy resources. 
(c) 
Expanding access to electricity in Selected Areas through: (i) service contracts 
with private operators; and (ii) through acquisition and installation of solar 
photovoltaic systems. 
( d) 
Providing support to the PMT of MoE for implementation, supervision and 
management of activities (including safeguards, procurement, financial 
management, communication, and monitoring and evaluation), and Operating 
Costs under this Part of the Project. 
Part 2: Restoring Municipal Waste, Water and Sanitation Services 
(a) 
Scaling up development and implementation of the repair, reconstruction and 
rehabilitation of water, wastewater, and solid waste services infrastructure in 
Selected Areas ("Water and Sanitation Subprojects"), including the provision of 
different types of goods for water, waste water and municipal authorities to assist 
the operations and maintenance departments and improve the quality of submitted 
services to the Targeted Municipal Areas. 
(b) 
Providing support to the PMT of the Strategic Management Unit of the 
MoCHMPW for implementation, supervision and management of activities 
(including safeguards, procurement, financial management, communication, and 
monitoring and evaluation), and Operating Costs under this Part of the Project. 
-5-
Part 3: Restoring Transport Infrastructure and Services 
(a) 
Transport Infrastructure (Roads and Bridges) 
(i) 
Scaling up development and implementation of the repair, reconstruction 
and rehabilitation of transport infrastructure (including road assets and 
bridges) in Selected Areas ("Transport Infrastructure Subprojects"), 
including the preparation of detailed plans, designs and bidding 
documents. 
(ii) 
Providing support to the PMT of the Road and Bridges Directorate of the 
MoCHMPW for the implementation, supervision and management of 
activities (including safeguards, procurement, financial management, 
communication, and monitoring and evaluation), and Operating Costs 
under this Part of the Project. 
(b) 
Transport Services (Civil Aviation, Railways, and Public Transport) 
(i) 
Preparation of studies, including feasibility studies, for the reconstruction, 
operation and maintenance of Mosul Airport, railways and public transport 
terminals under a public-private partnership scheme. 
(ii) 
Restoration of public transport terminals. 
(iii) 
Providing support to the PMT of the MoT for the implementation, 
supervision and management of activities (including safeguards, 
procurement, financial management, communication, and monitoring and 
evaluation), and Operating Costs under this Part of the Project. 
Part 4: Restoring Health Services 
(a) 
Acquisition of mobile clinics, medical equipment and ambulances in Targeted 
Municipal Areas through the PMT of the MoH. 
(b) 
Supporting the repair and reconstruction of damaged hospitals and clinics through 
the PMT of the Public Building Directorate of the MoCHMPW. 
(c) 
Providing support to: (i) the PMT of the MoH; and (ii) the PMT of the Public 
Building Directorate of the MoCHMPW for the implementation, supervision and 
management of activities (including safeguards, procurement, financial 
management, communication, and monitoring and evaluation), and Operating 
Costs under this Part of the Project. 
-6-
Part 5: Technical Assistance 
(a) 
Supporting the updating of the General Framework of the National Recovery and 
Reconstruction Framework for Iraq. 
(b) 
Developing and implementing a strategy for the sustainable management of 
physical cultural resources, through: the carrying out of a damage assessment and 
identification of priority interventions; development of a reconstruction and 
restoration strategy; and design and preparation for the establishment of a fund to 
support the management of physical cultural resources. 
Part 6: Project Management, Sensitization, and Communications, and Monitoring 
and Evaluation 
(a) 
Providing technical assistance to the PCU for the design of a scheme for the 
provision of housing reconstruction subsidies (the "Housing Reconstruction 
Subsidy Scheme"). 
(b) 
Developing a digital platform for data collection, analysis and information sharing 
to strengthen the Borrower's capacity for planning, implementation, supervision 
and monitoring of various recovery and peacebuilding activities. 
Part 7: Restoring Agriculture Productivity 
(a) 
(i) Provision and distribution of agriculture starter packages to agricultural 
producers and various CPGs, targeted beneficiaries shall be identified pursuant to 
the criteria set forth in the PIM; and (ii) supporting establishment and 
operationalization of said CPGs. 
(b) 
Supporting the repair, reconstruction and rehabilitation of key agricultural 
knowledge and service centers such as warehouses, veterinary centers, certified 
seed multiplication and processing facilities in Selected Areas ("Agriculture 
Subprojects"). 
( c) 
Supporting the improvement of access for farmers, farmer groups and agricultural 
input dealers to technical knowledge, services and technologies, through: 
(i) acquisition and distribution of farm input vouchers to said farmers and farmer 
groups; (ii) development of networks of agricultural input dealers; and 
(iii) facilitation of agricultural input dealers' access to credit and national and 
international market information. 
( d) 
Providing support to the PMT of Mo A for the implementation, supervision and 
management of activities (including safeguards, procurement, financial 
management, communication, monitoring and evaluation), and Operating Costs 
under this Part of the Project. 
-7-
Part 8. Emergency Repair of Water Control Infrastructure and Irrigation Schemes 
(a) 
(i) Supporting repairs of water control infrastructure, including but not limited to, 
the Falluja barrage, and Irrigation Schemes; and (ii) rebuilding offices of the 
Mo WR and provision of goods and equipment. 
(b) 
Providing support to the PMT ofMoWR for the implementation, supervision and 
management of activities (including safeguards, procurement, financial 
management, communication, monitoring and evaluation, and consulting 
services), and Operating Costs under this Part of the Project. 
Part 9. Restoring Education Services 
(a) 
Supporting the repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, upgrading, and eqmpmg 
primary schools, secondary schools, vocational training schools, and other 
educational infrastructure in Selected Areas ("Education Subprojects"). 
(b) 
Developing a detailed study followed by implementation of teacher and school 
leader training and support programs, in particular: (i) provision of training to 
teachers and school administrators focusing on pedagogical skills, psychosocial 
and emotional support; ( ii) recruitment and provision of training to women to serve 
as school-community liaisons in various communities; (iii) supporting inclusive 
participation of community members in recreational and cultural activities in' 
schools; and (iv) recruitment, provision of training and deployment of teacher 
aides to various schools. 
( c) 
Support the: (i) development and implementation of short term courses for out of 
school youth; (ii) development of education sector plans in select governorates on 
a pilot basis; and (iii) carrying out of selected studies in the education sector. 
( d) 
Providing support to the PMT of the MoEd for implementation, supervision and 
management of activities (including safeguards, procurement, financial 
management, communication, and monitoring and evaluation), and Operating 
Costs under this Part of the Project. 
Part 10. Restoring Basic Municipal Infrastructure and Services and Preserving 
Cultural Heritage Assets 
(a) 
Supporting the restoration ofbasic urban services in the Targeted Municipal Areas 
("Municipal Subprojects") of the Governorates of: (i) Al Anbar, (ii) Diyala, 
(iii) Ninawa, and (iv) Salah Ad-Din. 
(b) 
Piloting conservation, rehabilitation and restoration of selected cultural heritage 
assets in Mosul's historic center in the Governorate of Ninawa in close 
coordination with all government, non-government organizations and national and 
international entities specialized in this field. 
-8-
( c) 
Supporting the development of a pilot for the planning and design of infrastructure 
development at the governorate level of the Governorates of: (i) Al Anbar, 
(ii) Diyala, (iii) Ninawa, and (iv) Salah Ad-Din. 
( d) 
Providing support for implementation, supervision and management of activities 
(including safeguards, procurement, financial management, communication, and 
monitoring and evaluation), and incremental Operating Costs under this Part of the 
Project to the PMTs of the Governorates of: (i) Al Anbar, (ii) Diyala, (iii) Ninawa, 
and (iv) Salah Ad-Din. 路 
-9-
SCHEDULE2 
Section I. 
Project Execution 
Implementation Arrangements 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
Project Coordinating Unit. The Borrower shall maintain, throughout the period of 
implementation of the Project, a Project Coordination Unit for the Reconstruction 
Fund under the Council of Ministers, with composition, terms of reference and 
resources satisfactory to the Bank. The PCU shall be responsible for, inter alia: 
coordination and facilitation of Project implementation (including among the 
PMTs), and providing overall strategy, guidance, and monitoring and evaluation 
for the Project. 
2. 
Project Management Teams 
( a) 
The Borrower shall establish, by no later than October 31, 2017, a Project 
Management Team within each Participating Ministry that was not 
involved in the Original Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall maintain throughout the period of implementation of 
the Project, a Project Management Team within each Participating 
Ministry, under the direction of qualified management provided with 
sufficient resources, and staffed with competent technical and other 
personnel in adequate numbers including, among others, an engineer, an 
environmental specialist, a social specialist, financial . management 
specialist, and a procurement specialist, in each case with qualifications, 
experience and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. 
( c) 
Each such PMT shall be responsible for, inter alia: identification and 
implementation of Project activities and Subprojects; project management 
and planning; fiduciary and safeguards management; and reporting for its 
respective Part of the Project. 
3. 
Participating Governorates 
(a) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this 
Section I.A, the Borrower shall designate, at all times during the 
implementation of the Project, the respective Participating Govemorates, 
to be responsible for, inter alia identification, implementation and 
supervision of Project activities and Subprojects within their respective 
jurisdictions, all in accordance with the provisions of the PIM. The 
Borrower shall cause to be taken all actions including the provision of 
-10-
funding, personnel and other resources to enable said Participating 
Governorates to implement said Project activities and Subprojects. 
(b) 
To this end, the Borrower shall cause each Participating Governorate to 
establish, by no later than October 31, 2017, and thereafter maintain 
throughout the period of implementation of the Project, a Project 
Management Team, under the direction of qualified management provided 
with sufficient resources, and staffed with competent technical and other 
personnel in adequate numbers including, among others, an engineer, an 
environmental specialist, a social specialist, financial management 
specialist, and a procurement specialist, in each case with qualifications, 
experience and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. 
B. 
Project Implementation Manual 
1. 
The Borrower shall, by no later than October 31, 201 7, update and adopt the PIM, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
2. 
The Borrower shall, and shall cause each Participating Ministry and each 
Participating Governorate to: (a) carry out the Project in accordance with the PIM, 
and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) not amend, revise or waive, nor 
allow to be amended, revised, or waived, the provisions of the PIM or any part 
thereof without the prior written agreement of the Bank. 
3. 
In the event of any inconsistency between the PIM and this Agreement, the 
provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 
C. 
Subprojects 
1. 
The Borrower shall, through the PMTs, select Subprojects for financing under the 
Project in accordance with eligibility criteria and procedures satisfactory to the 
Bank and further elaborated in the PIM, which shall include the following: 
(a) 
No proposed Subproject shall be eligible for financing unless the Borrower 
shall have determined, on the basis of an appraisal carried out in 
accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Bank and elaborated in the 
PIM, that the proposed Subproject has fulfilled the requirements of the 
PIM and any applicable Safeguard Instrument. 
(b) 
Without limitation on the foregoing, if, pursuant to the ESMF and/or RPF, 
one or more Safeguard Instruments for the Subproject are required, such 
proposed Subproject shall not be eligible for financing under the Project 
until such Safeguard Instruments have been prepared and approved by the 
Bank and all measures required to be carried out in accordance with 
-11-
Section LE of this Schedule prior to路 commencement of the activities 
covered by the Safeguard Instruments have been carried out. 
D. 
Housing Reconstruction Subsidy Scheme 
The Borrower shall: (a) prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its review and 
comment, a draft of the Housing Reconstruction Subsidy Scheme, and afford the 
Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Bank on said draft 
Scheme; and (b) thereafter, ensure that said Scheme is finalized and adopted, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
E. 
Safeguards 
1. 
The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with the Safeguard 
Instruments, and shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provision 
of any of the Safeguard Instruments, without the prior written approval of the Bank 
and subject to compliance with applicable consultation and public disclosure 
requirements of the Bank. 
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that adequate information on the implementation of the 
Safeguards Instruments is suitably included in the Project Reports referred to in 
Section II of this Schedule, including details of: (a) measures taken in furtherance 
of the Safeguards Instruments; (b) conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to 
interfere with the smooth implementation of the Safeguards Instruments; and 
( c) remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such conditions. 
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that: (a) all measures identified and described in the 
Safeguards Instruments are taken in a timely manner; and (b) that the tender 
documents and each contract for all civil works to be carried out under the Project 
includes the obligation of the relevant contractor to comply with the relevant 
Safeguards Instruments applicable to such civil works commissioned or awarded 
pursuant to said contract. 
4. 
Without limitation upon the foregoing, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prior to commencing any civil works for any activity under the Project and 
when required under the ESMF, prepare, adopt and disclose appropriate 
ESIA(s), ESMP(s) and/or MWMP(s), as applicable, in accordance with 
the ESMF, such ESIA(s), ESMP(s), and MWMP(s) to be in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank; 
(b) 
prior to commencing any civil works for any activity under the Project and 
when required under the ESIAs, ESMPs, the RAPs, PMPs and the 
MWMPs, carry out specific public consultation in form and in substance 
satisfactory to the Bank; 
-12-
(c) 
prior to commencing any civil works for any activity under the Project 
involving involuntary resettlement or involuntary acquisition of land, 
prepare, adopt, disclose and implement appropriate RAP or RAPs, as the 
case may be, for compensation or resettlement, in accordance with the 
RPF, such RAP or RAPs to be in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank;and 
(d) 
prior to commencing any activity under the Project involving the use of 
pesticides and when required under the ESMF, prepare, adopt and disclose 
appropriate PMP(s) in accordance with the ESMF, such PMP(s) to be in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
5. 
In the event that any provision of the Safeguards Instruments shall conflict with 
any provision under this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
6. 
The Borrower shall: (a) maintain throughout the period of implementation of the 
Project, a grievance redress mechanism, satisfactory to the Bank, for the 
management of complaints related to the Project; and (b) ensure that adequate 
measures, satisfactory to the Bank, are put in place to ensure that all aspects of 
Project implementation are carried out in an inclusive, non-discriminatory and 
participatory manner. 
7. 
The Borrower shall ensure that all terms of reference for any technical assistance 
and studies to be carried out under the Project are prepared in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank and taking into account appropriate environmental and 
social safeguards measures. 
8. 
The Borrower shall ensure that any area in which any civil works under the Project 
will be implemented has been cleared of Explosive Remnants of War, and to that 
end, prior to commencing any civil works for any activity under the Project, the 
Borrower shall provide a confirmation, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, that the area in which such civil works will be implemented has been 
declared safe and clear of Explosive Remnants of War. 
Section II. 
Proiect Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than forty-five (45) 
days after the end of each calendar quarter, covering the calendar quarter. 
Section III. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
A. 
General 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in 
accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may 
-13-
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible Expenditures; and (b) pay: 
(i) the Front-end Fee; and (ii) each Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar premium; in 
the amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category 
of the following table: 
Amount of the 
Percentage of 
Loan 
Expenditures to 
Allocated 
be financed 
( expressed in 
(inclusive of 
Category 
USO) 
Taxes) 
(1) Goods, Works, Non-Consulting 
45,000,000 
100% 
Services, Consulting Services, 
Operating Costs, Training and 
Workshops for Part 1 of the Project. 
(2) Goods, Works, Non-Consulting 
40,000,000 
100% 
Services, Consulting Services, 
Operating Costs, Training and 
Workshops for Part 2 of the Project. 
(3) Goods, Works, Non-Consulting 
105,000,000 
100% 
Services, Consulting Services, 
Operating Costs, Training and 
Workshops for Part 3(a) of the 
Project. 
(4) Goods, Works, Non-Consulting 
5,000,000 
100% 
Services, Consulting Services, 
Operating Costs, Training and 
Workshops for Part 3(b) of the 
Project. 
(5) Goods, Non-Consulting Services, 
0 
100% 
Consulting Services, Operating Costs, 
Training and Workshops for Part 4 of 
the Project. 
(6) Goods, Non-Consulting Services, 
0 
100% 
Consulting Services, and Training and 
Workshops for Parts 5 and 6 of the 
Project. 
(7) Goods, Works, Non-Consulting 
30,000,000 
100% 
Services, Consulting Services, 
Operating Costs and Training and 
Workshops for Part 7 of the Project. 
-14-
(8) Goods, Works, Non-Consulting 
30,000,000 
100% 
Services, Consulting Services, 
Operating Costs and Training and 
Workshops for Part 8 of the Project. 
(9) Goods, Works, Non-Consulting 
35,000,000 
100% 
Services, Consulting Services, 
Operating Costs and Training and 
Workshops for Part 9 of the Project. 
(10) Goods, Works, Non-Consulting 
20,000,000 
100% 
Services, Consulting Services, 
Operating Costs and Training and 
Workshops for Part 10 (a)(i), lO(c)(i), 
and lO(d)(i) of the Project. 
(11) Goods, Works, Non-Consulting 
10,000,000 
100% 
Services, Consulting Services, 
Operating Costs and Training and 
Workshops for Parts 10 (a)(ii), 
10( c )(ii), and 10( d)(ii) of the Project. 
(12) Goods, Works, Non-Consulting 
20,000,000 
100% 
Services, Consulting Services, 
Operating Costs and Training and 
Workshops for Parts 10 (a)(iii), lO(b), 
lO(c)(iii), and lO(d)(iii) of the Project. 
(13) Goods, Works, Non-Consulting 
10,000,000 
100% 
Services, Consulting Services, 
Operating Costs and Training and 
Workshops for Parts 10 (a)(iv), 
lO(c)(iv), and lO(d)(iv) of the Project. 
(14) Unallocated. 
49,000,000 
(15) Front-End Fee. 
1,000,000 
Amount payable 
pursuant to Section 
2.03 of this 
Agreement in 
accordance with 
Section 2.07(b) of 
the General 
Conditions 
-15-
(16) Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
0 
Amount due 
Collar Premium. 
pursuant to Section 
4.05(c) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
400,000,000 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period. 
I. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made for 
payments made prior to the Signature Date. 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2022. 
-16-
SCHEDULE3 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage 
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date 
("Installment Share"). 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
On each May 15 and November 15, beginning 
5% 
November 15, 2022 through May 15, 2032. 
-17-
APPENDIX 
Def"mitions 
1. 
"Affected Person" means a person who as a result of: (a) the involuntary taking of 
land under the Project is affected in any of the following ways: (i) relocation or 
loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources 
or means of livelihood, whether or not the affected person must move to another 
location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and 
protected areas suffers adverse impacts on his or her livelihood. 
2. 
"Agriculture Subprojects" means subprojects referred to in Part 7(b) of the Project. 
3. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix 
to the General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud 
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", 
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016. 
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement. 
5. 
"Council of Ministers" means the Borrower's Council of Ministers, or any 
successor thereto. 
6. 
"CPGs" means the community production groups of agricultural producers formed 
by local communities and referred to in Part 7(a) the Project. 
7. 
"Education Subprojects" means subprojects referred to in Part 9(a) of the Project. 
8. 
"Electricity Subprojects" means subprojects referred to in Part 1 of the Project. 
9. 
"Environmental and Social Impact Assessment" or "ESIA" means an 
environmental and social impact assessment or a limited environmental and social 
impact assessment to be prepared by the Borrower pursuant to the ESMF, in each 
case identifying and assessing the potential environmental and social impacts of a 
proposed Project activity; and "ESIAs" means more than one such ESIA, as such 
ESIAs may be amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the 
Bank. 
10. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the 
environmental and social management framework of the Borrower dated 
September 20, 2017, setting forth the modalities for environmental and social 
screening for the Project, and outlining environmental and social implementation, 
mitigation and monitoring measures and procedures, including procedures for the 
management of chance finds of physical cultural resources, measures for selecting 
pesticides and the preparation and implementation ofESIAs, ESMPs and PMP(s) 
-18-
if required; as such ESMF may be amended from time to time with the prior written 
agreement of the Bank. 
11. 
"Environmental and Social Management Plan" or "ESMP" means an 
environmental and social management plan or a limited environmental and social 
management plan to be prepared by the Borrower pursuant to the ESMF, in each 
case setting forth appropriate mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures 
designed to mitigate the potential adverse environmental and social impacts of a 
proposed Project activity; and "ESMPs" means more than one such ESMP, as such 
ES MPs may be amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the 
Bank. 
12. 
"Explosive Remnants of War" means explosive remnants of war, including but not 
limited to, unexploded ordnance, improvised explosive devices and landmines. 
13. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project 
Financing", dated July 14, 2017. 
14. 
"General Framework of the National Recovery and Reconstruction Framework for 
Iraq" means the framework adopted by the Borrower's Council of Ministers on 
August 16, 2017. 
15. 
"Govemorates" means the Borrower's administrative govemorates where the 
Targeted Municipal Areas are located. 
16. 
"Housing Reconstruction Subsidy Scheme" means the scheme to be developed by 
the Borrower referred to in Part 6(a) of the Project and Section I.D of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement. 
17. 
"Irrigation Schemes" means irrigation headworks, main canals, pumping stations, 
and wells in Selected Areas referred to in Part 8(a)(i) of the Project. 
18. 
"MoA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture, or any successor thereto. 
19. 
"MoCHMPW" mean the Borrower's Ministry of Construction, Housing, 
Municipalities and Public Works, or any successor thereto, composed of the Roads 
and Bridges Directorate, the Public Buildings Directorate, and the Strategic 
Management Unit. 
20. 
"MoE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Electricity, or any successor thereto. 
21. 
"MoEd" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education, or any successor thereto. 
22. 
"MoH" mean the Borrower's Ministry of Health, or any successor thereto. 
-19-
23. 
"MoT" means the Borrower's Ministry of Transport, or any successor thereto. 
24. 
"Mo WR" means the Borrower's Ministry of Water Resources, or any successor 
thereto. 
25. 
"Minor Civil Works" means small scale civil works with low environmental and 
social impacts, required to effect minor repairs to roads, water distribution 
networks, and electricity distribution networks. 
26. 
"Municipal Subprojects" means subprojects referred to in Part IO(a) of the Project. 
27. 
"MWMP" means a medical waste management plan to be prepared by the 
Borrower pursuant to the ESMF, setting forth the measures to be taken for the 
management and safe handling of medical waste; and "MWMPs" means more than 
one such MWMP, as such MWMPs may be amended from time to time with the 
prior written agreement of the Bank. 
28. 
"Operating Costs" means the incremental and reasonable costs incurred by the 
PCU and the PMTs on account of Project implementation including costs for 
communication; translation and interpretation; printing; advertising; office 
supplies; banking charges; Project related travel (including per diems, 
accommodation and transportation); vehicle rental and fuel; postal fees; Minor 
Civil Works including mechanical and electrical works; for PMTs offices, and 
other miscellaneous costs directly associated with Project implementation subject 
to approval by the Bank, but excluding salaries and allowances of the Borrower's 
civil servants or other regular government staff. 
29. 
"Original Project" means the Emergency Operation for Development Project, 
Loan Number 8520-IQ. 
30. 
"Participating Govemorates" means Al Anbar, Diyala, Ninawa and Salah Ad-Din, 
and such other govemorate as may be agreed upon by the Borrower and the Bank. 
31. 
"Participating Ministries" means MoA, MoCHMPW, MoE, MoEd, MoH, MoT, 
andMoWR. 
32. 
"Pest Management Plan" or "PMP" means a Pest Management Plan to be prepared 
pursuant to the requirements of the ESMF. 
33. 
"Procurement Regulations" means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix 
to the General Conditions, the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for 
Borrowers under Investment Project Financing", dated July 1, 2016. 
34. 
"Project Coordination Unit" and "PCU" mean the Borrower's Project coordination 
unit, referred to in Section I.A. I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
-20-
35. 
"Project Implementation Manual" and "PIM" mean the Project implementation 
manual, to be prepared and adopted by the Borrower pursuant to Section LB of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
36. 
"Project Management Team" and "PMT" mean a Project management team to be 
established by the Borrower pursuant to Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; and "Project Management Teams" and "PMTs" means two or more 
such teams. 
37. 
"Reconstruction Fund" means the Borrower's Reconstruction Fund for Areas 
Affected by Terroristic Operations, established and operating pursuant to Article 
28 of the General Federal Budget Law for Fiscal Year 2015, Law No. 2 of 2015, 
of the laws of the Borrower; or any successor thereto. 
38. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" or "RAP" means a resettlement action plan or 
abbreviated resettlement action plan to be prepared by the Borrower pursuant to 
the RPF, describing, for a proposed Project activity, the compensation and other 
resettlement assistance to be provided, consultation to be conducted with Affected 
Persons about acceptable alternatives, institutional responsibilities for the 
implementation, procedures for grievance redress, and arrangements for 
monitoring and evaluation; and "RAPs" means more than one such RAP, as such 
RAPs may be amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the 
Bank. 
39. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the resettlement policy 
framework to be prepared by the Borrower in accordance with Section I.E.2 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, setting forth the guidelines, procedures, timetables 
and other specifications for the provision of compensation, rehabilitation and 
resettlement assistance to Affected Persons, and for the preparation aid 
implementation ofRAPs; as such RPF may be amended from time to time with the 
prior written agreement of the Bank. 
40. 
"Safeguard Instruments" means the following: ESIA, ESMF, ESMP, RAP and 
RPF. 
41. 
"Selected Areas" means the areas selected for various project act1v1t1es in 
accordance with criteria set forth in the PIM and satisfactory to the Bank. 
42. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the 
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the 
date of the Loan Agreement" in the General Conditions . 
. 43. 
"Subprojects" 
means, 
collectively, 
Agriculture 
Subprojects, 
Education 
Subprojects, Irrigation Schemes, Electricity Subprojects, Municipal Subprojects, 
Water and Sanitation Subprojects, and Transport Infrastructure Subprojects. 
-21-
44. 
"Targeted Municipal Areas" means the cities of Tikrit, Dour, Al-Alam and Al-
Dalooeyya located in the Salah Al-Din Governorate, and Jalula, As-Sadiya and Al-
Aazeem in Diyala Governorate, and other municipalities in Salah Ad-Din 
Governorate, Al Anbar Governorate and Ninawa Governorate all within the 
territory of the Borrower, and any other areas as may be agreed to by the Borrower 
and the Bank from time to time. 
45. 
"Training and Workshops" means the reasonable costs of training, seminars, 
workshops, conferences and study tours, including: (a) the fees of training 
institutions and courses; (b) domestic and international travel costs, lodging costs, 
and subsistence/per diem allowances for both trainers and trainees; ( c) the rental 
of training facilities; and ( d) preparation, purchase or reproduction of training 
materials. 
46. 
"Transport Infrastructure Subprojects" means subprojects referred to in Part 3(a) 
of the Project. 
47. 
"Water and Sanitation Subprojects" means subprojects referred to in Part 2(a) of 
the Project. 
