OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8660-GT
Loan Agreement
(First Improved Governance of Public Resources and Nutrition Development Policy Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
JLA 
, 201_
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
L/ 40 , 201,, entered 
into between REPUBLIC OF
GUATEMALA ("Borrower" and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to provide this financing on
the basis, inter alia, of: (i) the actions which the Borrower has already taken or supported under the
Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule I to this Agreement; and (ii) the
Borrower's maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework. The Borrower and the
Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred fifty million Dollars ($250,000,000), as
such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%), of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, however, that the
interest payable shall in no event be less than zero percent (0%) per annum; and
provided furthermore that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount
of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such
amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the
General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan
Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty
days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in
Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
-2-
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest
rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the
Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section II of
Schedule I to this Agreement.
2.09. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in accordance with
the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis applicable to
consecutive withdrawals from the Loan Account which in the aggregate equal or exceed
three million Dollars ($3,000,000) shall be converted from the initial Variable Rate to a
Fixed Rate for the full maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of the
General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
2.10. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 of Section II of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall promptly
furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this Article II as the Bank
may, from time to time, reasonably request.
-3-
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. The Loan,
provided in support of the Program, may serve to finance all budgeted expenditures of the
Borrower, except for Excluded Expenditures, as set forth in this Agreement. To this end,
and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework and the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for
its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section,
the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have the
effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action taken
under the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule I to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a situation has
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be
carried out.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the event
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 60 days
after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following: namely, that he Bank
is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program and
with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is August 9, 2018.
ARTICLE VI- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Public Finance.
-4-
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministerio de Finanzas Publicas
8a Avenida y 21 Calle
Centro Civico, Zona I
Guatemala, Guatemala
Facsimile:
(502) 23742690
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
AGREED at CLk(ok CA C4j 1!Re9A1qi .
t( 
(,\At 
av\j A, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUB 
OF GUATEMA
By
e ent tive
Name: 
LO 
r-
Title: 
A168ACY- 
YLAu4Iic~ lhCvve
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRU TION AND DEVELOPMENT
By 
Authorized Representative
Name: 
ftma~- lacikvci i-KicAk(
Title: 
V4 
V 
M & c
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I. 
Actions under the Propram
Actions Taken Under the Program. The actions taken or supported by the Borrower
under the Program include the following:
1 .
The Borrower, through MSPAS, has created a new primary health care model, including
the expansion of an essential package of nutrition and health services, as evidenced by the
Borrower's Ministerial Decree (Acuerdo Ministerial) No. 261-2016, dated August 29,
2016, duly published in the Borrower's official gazette on September 5, 2016.
2. 
The Borrower has established a policy framework to reduce malnutrition through: (a) the
creation of the Presidential Commission for the Reduction of Chronic Malnutrition, as
evidenced by the Borrower's Executive Decree (Acuerdo Gubernativo) No. 45-2016, dated
February 22, 2016, duly published in the Borrower's official gazette on February 26, 2016;
and (b) the approval of a strategy to reduce chronic malnutrition, which prioritizes the
implementation of said strategy in the 7 neediest sub-national jurisdictions (departments),
as evidenced by CONASAN's Resolution No. 02-2016, dated March 3, 2016.
3. 
The Borrower, through MIDES, has adopted a geographical targeting methodology for
MIDES' programs and projects with a view to enhance the targeting to the poor and the
efficiency of social spending, as evidenced by the Borrower's Ministerial Decree (Acuerdo
Ministerial) No. DS-42-2016, dated August 29, 2016.
4. 
The Borrower, through MIDES, has restructured the Food-CCT (Transferencia Monetaria
CondicionadaparaAlimentos) by replacing the in-kind transfer mechanism with a periodic
conditional transfer mechanism that is: (a) provided with better targeting to poor and
extreme poor households enrolled on the basis of socioeconomic indicators; (b) provided
through a debit card to be used in pre-identified food establishments; and (c) geo-
referenced to beneficiary household data, all as evidenced by the Borrower's Ministerial
Decree (Acuerdo Ministerial) No. DS-24-2016, dated May 5, 2016.
5. 
The Borrower has amended the SAT Organic Law and Related Laws, including provisions
to limit bank secrecy embedded in said Related Laws, to improve the governance of the
SAT and enhance tax collection compliance, all as evidenced by the Borrower's Law No.
37-2016, dated July 19, 2016, duly published in the Borrower's official gazette on August
23, 2016.
6. 
SAT has established an internal affairs/investigation unit, with a view to strengthen internal
accountability, as evidenced by SAT's Board Resolution No. 009-2016, dated June 6, 2016,
duly published in the Borrower's official gazette on July 25, 2016.
7. 
For purposes of increasing competition and limiting the discretion in procurement
procedures, including procurement procedures for public trusts (fideicomisos), the
Borrower has: (a) amended the Procurement Code, as evidenced by the Borrower's Law
-6-
No. 9-2015, dated November 17, 2015, duly published in the Borrower's official gazette
on December 8, 2015; and (b) issued the corresponding regulations, as evidenced by
MINFIN's Executive Decree (Acuerdo Gubernativo) No. 122-2016, dated June 15, 2016
and No. 147-2016, dated July 29, 2016, duly published in the Borrower's official gazette
on June 16, 2016 and August 1, 2016, respectively.
8. 
For purposes of enhancing payroll controls of public sector employees, the Borrower has
mandated: (a) the carrying out of a public sector workforce census; and (b) the use of its
integrated system of human resources administration and of its unified payroll system
(Guaten6minas), all as evidenced by the Borrower's Executive Decree (Acuerdo
Gubernativo) No. 180-2016, dated September 12, 2016, duly published in the Borrower's
official gazette on September 21, 2016.
9. 
The Superintendence of Banks has strengthened its supervision of financial transactions of
High Risk Clients, including significant transactions with public sector entities, by
mandating: (a) financial institutions to carry out enhanced due diligence of business
relationships with State Contractors, including bank accounts; and (b) all Regulated
Entities to comply with procedures for managing and addressing the risks related to money
laundering and financing of terrorism, all pursuant to the Borrower's Legislative Decree
No. 67-2001, dated December 17, 2001, as amended to the date of this Agreement, and as
evidenced by the Special Verification Intendent's letter No. 3654-2016 dated September
30, 2016.
10. 
The Borrower has strengthened the independence and capacity of the Public Ministry to
combat corruption through: (a) the amendment of the Public Prosecution Law, as evidenced
by the Borrower's Legislative Decree No. 18-2016, dated February 23, 2016, duly
published in the Borrower's official gazette on March 18, 2016; and (b) the creation of a
Disciplinary Commission (Junta Disciplinaria), as evidenced by letter No. DRHMP- 1671-
2016, dated October 3, 2016, from the human resources director of the Public Ministry.
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by
notice to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan except for amounts required to pay the Front-
end Fee, is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the Borrower may make
withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end
is set out in the table below:
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan
Tranche
Allocated
(expressed in Dollars)
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 
249,375,000
(2) Front-end Fee 
625,000
(3) Amount due pursuant to Section 2.08(c) of this Agreement 
0
TOTAL AMOUNT 
250,000,000
-7-
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.
1. 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is
satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with the adequacy
of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
D. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an account
designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and
2. 
the Borrower shall: (a) ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into this
account an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower's budget management
system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank; and (b) provide the Bank with a written
confirmation within thirty (30) days of each such deposit mentioned in (a) herein.
E. 
Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not
be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an
amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the amount
of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be
cancelled.
F. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is September 9, 2019.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying:
(a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment
Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary,
to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each March 15 and September 15
Beginning March 15, 2024
through March 15, 2036 
3.85%
On September 15, 2036 
3.75%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as
of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding
on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall
be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating
to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-10-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"CONASAN" means Consejo Nacional de Seguridad Alimentaria y Nutricional, the
Borrower's National Council for Food Security and Nutritional, created pursuant to the
Borrower's Legislative Decree No 32-2005, dated April 6, 2005, duly published in the
Borrower's official gazette on May 2, 2005.
2. 
"Disciplinary Commission" means Junta Disciplinaria, a disciplinary commission created
pursuant to the Public Prosecution Law, in order to review allegations and impose sanctions
to prosecutors in accordance with the requirements of the Public Prosecution Law.
3. 
"Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or international
financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association has financed
or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association has financed or agreed
to finance under another loan, credit, or grant;
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item
112 
Alcoholic beverages
121 
Tobacco, un-manufactured,
tobacco refuse
122 
Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)
525 
Radioactive and associated
materials
667 
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated,
for nuclear reactors
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing
machinery
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths' or
-11-
silversmiths' wares
(including set gems)
971 
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold ores and
concentrates)
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the
Borrower is a party;
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or
coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other
recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower (or other such recipient)
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address such
practices when they occur.
4. 
"Food CCT" means Transferencia Monetaria Condicionada para Alimentos, the
Borrower's Conditional Cash Transfer for Food program, created pursuant to Ministerial
Decree (Acuerdo Ministerial) No. 02-2012 dated May 7, 2012.
5. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
6. 
"High Risk Client" means any client of a Regulated Entity that has a high risk of engaging
in money laundering or corrupt activities.
7. 
"MIDES" means Ministerio de Desarrollo Social, the Borrower's Ministry of Social
Development
8. 
"MINFIN" means Ministerio de Finanzas Pfiblicas, the Borrower's Ministry of Public
Finance.
9. 
"MSPAS" means Ministerio de SaludPtblicay Asistencia Social, the Borrower's Ministry
of Public Health and Social Assistance.
10. 
"Procurement Code" means the Borrower's Legislative Decree No. 57-92, dated May 10,
1992 on public acquisitions (Ley de Contrataciones del Estado), duly published in the
Borrower's official gazette on October 27, 1992, as said law has been amended to the date
of this Agreement.
11. 
"Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the
-12-
letter dated October 12, 2016 from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in
support of the Program during its execution.
12. 
"Public Ministry" means Ministerio Puiblico, the Borrower's Public Ministry created
pursuant to the Public Prosecution Law.
13. 
"Public Prosecution Law" means the Borrower's Legislative Decree No. 40-94, dated May
2, 1994 duly published in the Borrower's official gazette on May 13, 1994 as said law has
been amended to the date of this Agreement.
14. 
"Related Laws" means the Borrower Laws Nos. 19-2002, 6-91, 90-2005 and 2-70, dated
April 29, 2002, January 9, 1991, November 23, 2005 and April 9, 1970, respectively, duly
published on May 15, 2002, April 3, 1991, December 21, 2005 and June 22, 1970,
respectively, as said laws have been amended to the date of this Agreement, which laws
regulate banks and financial groups, taxpayer rights and obligations, citizen registry, and
commerce, respectively.
15. 
"Regulated Entity" means any entity, including banks, financial institutions, and offshore
entities, set forth in article 18 of the Borrower's Legislative Decree No. 67-2001, dated
November 28, 2001, duly published in the Borrower's official gazette on December 17,
2001 as amended to the date of this Agreement.
16. 
"SAT" means Superintendencia de Administraci6n Tributaria, the Borrower's Tax
Administration Superintendence, created pursuant to the SAT Organic Law.
17. 
"SAT Organic Law" means the Borrower's Law No. 1-98, dated January 12, 1998 duly
published in the Borrower's official gazette on February 13, 1998, which established the
SAT and governs its operations, as said law has been amended to the date of this
Agreement.
18. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category
entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of
Schedule I to this Agreement.
19. 
"State Contractor" means any individual or legal entity that enters into a contract above a
threshold of Q900,000 with the Borrower or any of the entities set forth in article I of the
Borrower's Law No. 57-92, dated October 5, 1992 duly published in the Borrower's
official gazette on October 27, 1992, as said law has been amended to the date of this
Agreement, for purposes of providing services, goods and/or works to, or engaging in
leasing with, the Borrower and/or said entities.
20. 
"Superintendence of Bank's" means Superintendencia de Bancos, the Borrower's
Superintendence of Banks created pursuant to the Borrower's Legislative Decree No. 18-
2002, dated May 10, 2002, duly published in the Borrower's official gazette on May 13,
2002, as said law has been amended to the date of this Agreement.
-13-
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for Withdrawal)
is deleted in its entirety.
3. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in their
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
4. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Commitment Charge"). The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually
in arrears on each Payment Date."
5. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally) and 5.09 (Financial Management; Financial
Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the subsequent Sections in Article V
are renumbered accordingly.
6. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above and
relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
7. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above) is
modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until
two years after the Closing Date. 
The Borrower shall enable the Bank's
representatives to examine such records."
-14-
8. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above) is
modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
... 
(c) 
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their respective
obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Loan."
9. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all references to Section numbers and paragraphs are
modified, as necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above.
10. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition
of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the remaining paragraphs accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
11. 
Renumbered paragraph 37 (originally paragraph 36) of the Appendix ("Eligible
Expenditure") is modified to read as follows:
"37. 
"Eligible Expenditure" means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the
Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan Agreement."
12. 
Renumbered paragraph 44 (originally paragraph 43) of the Appendix ("Financial
Statements") is deleted in its entirety.
13. 
In paragraph 48 of the Appendix, the definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by
replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
14. 
In paragraph 67 of the Appendix, the definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to
read as follows:
"67. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower."
15. 
In paragraph 72 of the Appendix, the definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting
the word "is" and inserting the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word
"interest".
-15-
16. 
The defined term "Project" in paragraph 75 of the Appendix is modified to read "Program"
and its definition is modified to read as follows (and all references to "Project" throughout
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to "Program"):
"75. 
"Program" means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of
which the Loan is made."
