OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8877-IN
Loan Agreement
(Uttarakhand Workforce Development Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
, l 2018
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
/I2018, between INDIA ("Borrower") and
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT
("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I- GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of seventy four million United States
Dollars (USD74,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08
of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule
1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, however, that the interest payable shall in no event be less than zero
percent (0%) per annum; and provided furthermore that, upon a Conversion of all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the
Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance
remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty
days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as
provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
-2-
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; and (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.09. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure
Limit (as said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of
this Section), the Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of
one half of one percent (0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess
Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for
each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if any)
shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
-3-
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set
forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during
which the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit,
the product of: (A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the
ratio of all (or, if the Bank so determines, a portion) of the Loan
to the aggregate amount of all (or the equivalent portions) of the
loans made by the Bank to the Borrower, and to other borrowers
guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an exposure
surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined from
time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the
Bank's financial exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded,
would subject the Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined
from time to time by the Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total
financial exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by
the Bank.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and the Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that the
UKSDM Legal Framework has been amended, suspended, terminated, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Project
Implementing Entity to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement
in respect of Component 2 of the Project
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
-4-
period of thirty (30) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to
the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is any of the following officials acting severally:
the Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary,
or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs of the Borrower's
Ministry of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Secretary
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
Government of India
North Block
New Delhi 110 001, India
Facsimile:
+91-11-23095071
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Facsimile:
1-202-477-6391
-5-
AGREED at 
1, India, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By
orized Representative
Name:
Title:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
bo 4g 
A. COA PASA
Title: 
ACefJlKi A 
OC;N17
/Recype 
/'IA
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to improve the quality and relevance of
training at Priority Industrial Training Institutes and to increase the number of
labor-market-relevant workers through short-term training in Uttarakhand.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Component 1: Improving the Quality and Relevance of ITI Training
1 .
Comprehensive improvement of quality and relevance of Priority ITIs:
Operationalizing a new mode of service delivery at Priority ITIs, through the
preparation and implementation of Master Plans aimed at: (a) upgrading ITIs'
equipment and facilities to comply with National Council for Vocational Training
("NCVT") requirements; (b) converting trades from State Council for Vocational
Training ("SCVT") to NCVT; (c) rationalization of trade courses pursuant to
discussions with industry and stakeholders consultations; and (d) increasing
enrollment capacity of Priority ITIs by opening new labor-marked demanded
trades, and/or introducing new shifts.
2. 
Professional development of ITI teachers and staff: (a) Establishing at least two
in-service training centers at the premises of Priority ITIs for institutionalizing
recurrent professional development training; and (b) designing and implementing
professional training opportunities for principals, foremen and teachers in all
public ITIs, including: (i) domain specific training (both theoretical and practical);
(ii) pedagogical and management training; (iii) soft skills training; (iv) industry-
based training; and (v) competency-based teachers training for selected trades.
3. 
Strengthening industry linkages: (a) Developing a partnership framework with
industry and private sector entities in order to encourage cooperation through: (i)
input-focused engagements such as private sector provision of teachers training,
guest lecturers, and infrastructure and equipment for training providers; (ii)
advisory engagements, on skills demand, trades prioritization and quality of
Priority ITIs' training; and (iii) output-focused engagements including campus
recruitments, 
apprenticeships, 
on-the-job 
training and 
revenue-generating
activities; and (b) establishing an industry-linkage cell in each Priority ITI.
4. 
Institutional capacity development ofthe skills development system: Strengthening
the institutional capacity of the ITI system and overall skills systems through
increasing ITIs' financial autonomy.
-7-
Component 2: Increasing the Number of Skilled Workers Certified under NSOF-
Compliant Short-Term Trainin
Providing nationally recognized NSQF-compliant short-term training by the
Uttarakhand Skills Development Mission to approximately 32,000 uneducated or
unskilled persons.
Component 3: Policy and Institutional Development and Project Management
1 .
Technical Assistance for Institutional Strengthening: Strengthening the
institutional capacity of the DSDE for the implementation of skills development
sector programs by:
(a) 
establishing labor market driven skills development system through: (i)
the provision of technical assistance to develop job-portals and job-
placement/matching services, carrier counseling and social networking
services; (ii) the provision of business start-up support services/trainings
to potential entrepreneurs; (iii) the improvement/strengthening of ITIs'
and 
training 
systems 
accountability 
mechanisms; 
and 
(iv) 
the
strengthening of district management committees, carrying out of business
demand studies and industry consultations in order to inculcate industry-
led decision making procedures;
(b) 
instituting a program for the recognition of prior learning of existing
workforce;
(c) 
developing Uttarakhand's skills development policy, carrying out the
Department of Training and Education's institutional assessment and
implementing automated business management systems at DSDE,
including 
human 
resources 
management, 
student 
administration,
procurement, logistics and inventory management, and electronic-based
decision making systems; and
(d) 
carrying out a communication and awareness campaign, using public
broadcasting, newspapers and or social networking services to educate the
general public on training opportunities, particularly for women.
2. 
Monitoring and evaluation, and Project management: Strengthening DSDE's
institutional capacity to implement the Project and perform monitoring and
evaluation activities thereunder, including: (a) the operation of the State Project
Implementation Unit ("SPIU"); (b) the carrying out of baselines surveys, skills
demand assessments, tracers studies and Project impact evaluations; and (c) the
monitoring, and third party validation/accreditation, of the achievement of
Disbursement-Linked Results.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arran2ements
A. 
On-Lending Arrangements
1. 
To facilitate Project Implementing Entity's carrying out of the Project, the
Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to the Project
Implementing Entity in accordance with the Borrower's standard arrangements for
development assistance to the States of India.
2. 
Notwithstanding paragraph I above, in the event that any provision of this
Agreement, including the instructions that the Bank shall have specified by notice
to the Borrower pursuant to Section IV.A.1 of this Schedule, were to be found
inconsistent with the Borrower's standard arrangements for development
assistance to the States of India, the provisions of this Agreement and related
instructions shall govern.
3. 
The Borrower shall at all times protect its own rights and the interest of the Bank
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate, and cause the Project Implementing
Entity to monitor and evaluate, the progress of the Project and prepare Project
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to
the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the period covered by
such report.
-9-
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the Bank not later
than sixty (60) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited
financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have, and cause the Project Implementing Entity to have, the
Project's Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements
shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower and the Project
Implementing Entity, commencing with the fiscal year in which the first
withdrawal was made. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall
be furnished to the Bank not later than nine (9) months after the end of such period.
Section HI. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
-10-
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
National Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding procedures subject to the
additional provisions agreed upon from time to time between the Borrower and the
Bank and set forth in the Procurement Plan.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than National Competitive Bidding, may
be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those
contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) Limited International Bidding; (b)
Shopping; (c) procurement under Framework Agreements in accordance with
procedures which have been found acceptable to the Bank; (d) Direct Contracting;
(e) Force Account; and (f) Procurement from a United Nations agency.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; 
(d) 
Selection based on Consultants'
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Procedures set
forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of
Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
-11 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised
from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant
to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Amount of the 
Percentage of
Loan 
Expenditures to be
Category 
Allocated 
financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Eligible Expenditures Program
under Components 1 and 2 of the 
66,000,000 
80%
Project
(2) Goods, non-consulting services,
consultants' services,
Incremental Operating Costs, and 
7,815,000 
80%
Training and Workshops under
Component 3 of the Project
Amount 
payable
pursuant 
to 
Section
2.03 of this Agreement
(3) Front-end Fee 
185,000 
i. 
or 
th
mn 
accordance 
with
Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
Amount due pursuant
(4) Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
0oSet 
20( 
of
Collr prmium0 
to Section 2.08(c) of
this Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
74,000,000
- 12 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed USD 14,800,000
may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after January
1, 2018 for Eligible Expenditures; or
(b) 
under Categories (1) and (2) unless and until the Project Implementing
Entity has prepared and adopted a Project Implementation Plan acceptable
to the Bank; or
(c) 
under Category (1) unless and until the Project Implementing Entity has:
(i) 
complied with the additional instructions referred to in Section
IV.A.1 of this Schedule, including the submission to the Bank of
the applicable IUFR detailing the expenditures incurred under the
EEP up to the date of the applicable withdrawal application; and
(ii) 
furnished evidence, satisfactory to the 
Bank of the Project
Implementing Entity's achievement of the DLR(s) set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement, for which the payment(s) of the
respective Allocated Amounts has/have been requested.
2. 
If the Bank determines in its sole discretion that one or more of the DLRs set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement has/have not been achieved, or were no longer
achievable by the respective due date(s) and/or the Closing Date, then, the Bank
shall withhold the Allocated Amounts for such unmet DLR(s) and, at its sole
discretion, may:
(a) 
authorize partial releases of the Allocated Amounts so withheld/to be
withheld, if and when the Bank is satisfied that: (i) the non-fulfillment of
such DLR(s) is due to an event of force majeure; and/or (ii) in the sole
opinion of the Bank, the Project Implementing Entity has made reasonable
efforts to remedy any situation preventing the achievement of said
DLR(s);
(b) 
authorize, at a later date, the full release of the Allocated Amounts so
withheld, if and when the Bank is satisfied that the respective DLR(s)
has/have been achieved; and/or
- 13 
(c) 
at any time, by notice to the Borrower and the Project Implementing
Entity, cancel the amount(s) so withheld/to be withheld, and/or reallocate
it/them, whether in full or in part, to any other Category and/or DLR(s).
3. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2023.
SCHEDULE 3
Disbursement-Linked Indicators, Disbursement-Linked Results and Allocated Amounts
DISBURSEMENT-LINKED RESULTS
DISBURSEMENT-
LINKED 
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE
INDICATORS 
ACHIEVED IN FY2018/19 
ACHIEVED IN FY2019/20 
ACHIEVED IN FY2020/21 
ACHIEVED IN FY2021/22 
ACHIEVED IN FY2022/23
(YEAR 1) 
(YEAR 2) 
(YEAR 3) 
(YEAR 4) 
(YEAR 5)
1. Increasing the 
The Steering Committee has 
(i) Priority ITIs have 
(i) Priority ITIs have 
(i) Priority ITIs have 
(i) Priority ITIs have
quality of 
approved Master Plans for 
completed the upgrade of 
completed the upgrade of 
completed the upgrade of 
completed the upgrade of
training and 
all Priority ITIs.* 
at least five percent (5%) 
at least twenty five 
at least fifty percent 
at least ninety five percent
enrollment in 
of trade courses identified 
percent (25%) of trade 
(50%) of trade courses 
(95%) of trade courses
Priority ITIs. 
in the approved Master 
courses identified in the 
identified in the approved 
identified in the approved
Plans;* and 
approved Master Plans;* 
Master Plans;* and 
Master Plans;* and
(ii) Priority ITIs have 
and 
(ii) Priority ITIs have 
(ii) Priority ITIs have
achieved an increase in 
(ii) Priority ITIs have 
achieved an increase in 
achieved an increase in
enrolments of at least five 
achieved an increase in 
enrolments of at least 
enrolments of at least fifty
percent (5%) in NCVT 
enrolments of at least 
twenty five percent (25%) 
percent (50%) in NCVT
Courses in FY2019/20 
fifteen percent (15%) in 
in NCVT Courses in 
Courses in FY2022/23
compared to baseline. 
NCVT Courses in 
FY2021/22 compared to 
compared to baseline.
FY2020/21 compared to 
baseline.
baseline.
USDI,600,000 for DLR (i) 
USDI,800,000 for DLR (i)
above to be topped up with 
above, to be topped up with
USDI,600,000 for DLR (i) 
an additional USD 800,000 
an additional USD 800,000 
USD2,000,000 for DLR (i)
Allocated 
USD2,400,000 
above; and USDI,600,000 
if the DLR (i) target is 
if the DLR(i) target is 
above; and USD2,000,000
Amounts 
for DLR (ii) above 
effectively achieved in or 
effectively achieved in or 
for DLR (ii) above
before FY2020/21; and 
before FY 2021/22; and
USDI,600,000 for DLR (ii) 
USDI,800,000 for DLR (ii)
above 
above
2. Continuous 
DSDE has approved, a 
At least fifty percent (50%) 
At least seventy percent 
At least ninety percent (90%) 
At least ninety five percent
professional 
Professional Development 
of teachers and staff in all 
(70%) of teachers and staff 
of teachers and staff in all 
(95%) of teachers and staff in
development of 
Plan ("PDP") for public 
public ITIs have completed 
in all public ITIs have 
public ITIs have completed 
all public ITIs have
all ITI teachers 
ITIs' teachers and staff.* 
at least one (1) annually held 
completed at least one (1) 
at least one (1) annually held 
completed at least one (1)
and staff 
professional training program 
annually held professional 
professional training program 
annually held professional
-15-
DISBURSEMENT-LINKED RESULTS
DISBURSEMsEN4T-
LINKED 
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE
INDICATORS 
ACHIEVED IN FY2018/19 
ACHIEVED IN FY2019/20 
ACHIEVED IN FY2020/21 
ACHIEVED IN FY2021/22 
ACHIEVED IN FY2022/23
(YEAR 1) 
(YEAR 2) 
(YEAR 3) 
(YEAR 4) 
(YEAR 5)
contemplated in the PDP 
training program 
contemplated in the PDP 
training program
during Year 2. 
contemplated in the PDP 
during Year 4. 
contemplated in the PDP
during Year 3. 
during Year 5.
Allocated 
USD 1,200,000 upon 
USD 1,200,000 upon 
USD 1,200,000 upon 
USD 1,200,000 upon
mounts 
achievement of 70% of 
achievement of 70% of 
achievement of 70% of 
achievement of 70% of
USD2,400,000 
targeted percentage; and 
targeted percentage; and 
targeted percentage; and 
targeted percentage; and
USD1,200,000 upon full 
USD1,200,000 upon full 
USD1,200,000 upon full 
USD1,200,000 upon full
achievement of result 
achievement of result 
achievement of result 
achievement of result
3. Improving 
(i) Priority ITIs have 
(i) Priority ITIs have 
(i) Priority ITIs have
employment 
achieved an increase of 
achieved an increase of 
achieved an increase of
outcomes ofITI 
graduates in at least three 
graduates in at least five 
graduates at least fifteen
graduates. 
percent (3%) in NCVT 
percent (5%) in NCVT 
percent (15%) in NCVT
Courses in FY2020/21 
Courses in FY2021/22 
Courses in FY2022/23
compared to baseline; and 
compared to baseline; and 
compared to baseline; and
(ii) At least twenty seven 
(ii) At least twenty nine 
(ii) At least thirty two percent
percent (27%) of students 
percent (29%) of students 
(32%) of students
completing their training 
completing their training 
completing their training
in FY2019/20 in Priority 
in FY2020/21 in Priority 
in FY2021/22 in Priority
ITIs are placed in jobs 
ITIs are placed in jobs 
ITIs are placed in jobs
within six (6) months of 
within six (6) months of 
within six (6) months of
their training completion. 
their training completion. 
their training completion.
USD1,600,000 for DLR (i) 
USD1,600,000 for DLR (i) 
USD1,600,000 for DLR (i)
Aot 
iabove; and USD2,400,000 
above; and USD2,400,000 
above; and USD2,400,000
for DLR (ii) above 
for DLR (ii) above 
for DLR (ii) above
4. Strengthening 
DoF has approved a new 
At least five (5) Priority ITIs 
At least fifteen (15) Priority 
At least twenty (20) Priority 
At least twenty-five (25)
financial 
policy providing for an 
have carried out revenue 
ITIs have carried out revenue 
ITIs have carried out revenue 
Priority ITIs have carried out
management 
additional allocation to ITIs 
generating activities in Year 
generating activities in Year 
generating activities in Year 
revenue generating activities
capacity of ITIs. 
equivalent to the amount of 
2. 
3. 
4. 
in Year 5.
any revenue obtained
through revenue generating
activities.*
- 16-
DISBURSEMENT-LINKED RESULTS
DISBURSEMENT-
LINKED 
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE 
RESULTS TO BE
INDICATORS 
ACHIEVED IN FY2018/19 
ACHIEVED IN FY2019/20 
ACHIEVED IN FY2020/21 
ACHIEVED IN FY2021/22 
ACHIEVED IN FY2022/23
(YEAR 1) 
(YEAR 2) 
(YEAR 3) 
(YEAR 4) 
(YEAR 5)
USD400,000 upon 
USD400,000 upon 
USD400,000 upon 
USD400,000 upon
achievement of 60% of 
achievement of 53% of 
achievement of 50% of 
achievement of 52% of
Allocatd 
USD800,000 
targeted number; and 
targeted number; and 
targeted number; and 
targeted number; and
USD400,000 upon full 
USD400,000 upon full 
USD400,000 upon full 
USD400,000 upon full
achievement of result 
achievement of result 
achievement of result 
achievement of result
5. Increasing the 
(i) At least six thousand four 
(i) At least twelve thousand 
(i) At least nineteen 
(i) At least twenty five three 
(i) At least thirty two
number of 
hundred (6,400) trainees 
eight hundred (12,800) 
thousand two hundred 
thousand six hundred 
thousand (32,000)
trainees 
have been certified under 
trainees have been 
(19,200) trainees have 
(25,600) trainees have 
trainees have been
certified under 
NSQF-Level 3 (or above) 
certified under NSQF- 
been certified under 
been certified under 
certified under NSQF-
NSQF 
Short Term Training;* 
Level 3 (or above) Short 
NSQF-Level 3 (or above) 
NSQF-Level 3 (or above) 
Level 3 (or above) Short
Compliant Short 
and 
Term Training;* and 
Short Term 
Short Term Training;* 
Term Training;* and
Term Training 
(ii) At least three thousand 
(ii) At least six thousand four 
Training;*and 
and 
(ii) At least seventeen
by UKSDM. 
one hundred (3,100) 
hundred (6,400) trainees 
(ii) At least nine thousand 
(ii) At least thirteen thousand 
thousand six hundred
trainees certified under 
certified under NSQF- 
seven hundred (9,700) 
five hundred (13,500) 
(17,600) trainees certified
NSQF- Level 3 (or 
Level 3 (or above) Short 
trainees certified under 
trainees certified under 
under NSQF-Level 3 (or
above) Short Term 
Term Training are 
NSQF-Level 3 (or above) 
NSQF-Level 3 (or above) 
above) Short Term
Training are women.* 
women.* 
Short Term Training are 
Short Term Training, are 
Training are women.*
women.* 
women.*
USD3,000,000 for DLR (i) 
USD3,000,000 for DLR (i) 
USD3,000,000 for DLR (i) 
USD3,000,000 for DLR (i) 
USD3,000,000 for DLR (i)
Allocatd 
above; and USD1,000,000 
above; and USD1,000,000 
above; and USD1,000,000 
above; and USD1,000,000 
above; and USD1,000,000
Amounts 
for DLR (ii) above 
for DLR (ii) above 
for DLR (ii) above 
for DLR (ii) above 
for DLR (ii) above
*These DLRs are not time-bound. The Fiscal Years in which they are expected to be achieved as per this schedule are strictly proposed for
indicative purposes. These DLRs can accordingly be met up and until the Closing Date.
SCHEDULE 4
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
December 15, 2023 
3.09%
June 15, 2024 
3.17%
December 15, 2024 
3.25%
June 15, 2025 
3.33%
December 15, 2025 
3.41%
June 15, 2026 
3.50%
December 15, 2026 
3.58%
June 15, 2027 
3.67%
December 15, 2027 
3.77%
June 15, 2028 
3.86%
December 15, 2028 
3.96%
June 15, 2029 
4.05%
December 15, 2029 
4.16%
June 15, 2030 
4.26%
December 15, 2030 
4.37%
June 15, 2031 
4.48%
December 15, 2031 
4.59%
June 15, 2032 
4.70%
December 15, 2032 
4.82%
June 15, 2033 
4.94%
December 15, 2033 
5.06%
- 18-
June 15, 2034 
5.19%
December 15, 2034 
5.32%
June 15, 2035 
5.47%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
- 19 
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
- 20 
APPENDIX
Section .
Definitions
1. 
"Allocated Amounts" means the amounts allocated to each individual DLR, as
such amount might be increased, reallocated and/or cancelled (whether partially or
in its entirety) by the Bank, from time to time as the case may be, in accordance
with the provisions of Section IV.B.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
4. 
"Component" means each of the sets of activities grouped under an individual title
in Schedule 1 (Project Description) to this Agreement.
5. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
6. 
"Director of Training" means the civil servant who acts as the head of DSDE.
7. 
"Disbursement-Linked Indicator" and the acronym "DLI" mean each of the
disbursement-linked indicators numbered 1 through 5 and set forth in the first
column of the table provided in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
8. 
"Disbursement-Linked Result" and the acronym "DLR" mean each of the
disbursement-linked targets/results set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement in the
columns entitled "Results to be Achieved in FY2018/19 (Year 1)", "Results to be
Achieved in FY2019/20 (Year 2)", "Results to be Achieved in FY2020/21 (Year
3)", Results to be Achieved in FY2021/22 (Year 4)" or "Results to be Achieved in
FY2022/23 (Year 5)", as applicable.
9. 
"Displaced Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of the
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts
caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of
shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or
means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to another location;
or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected
areas, resulting in adverse impact on the livelihoods of such persons.
10. 
"DoF" means Uttarakhand's Department of Finance or any successor thereto.
-21 
11. 
"DSDE" means Uttarakhand's 
Department of Skills Development 
and
Employment, or any successor thereto.
12. 
"Eligible Expenditures Program" and the acronym "EEP" mean collectively all
expenditures incurred by Project Implementing Entity under the budget lines 2230-
03-001-01 "Directorate"; 2230-03-003-03 "Plan and Non-Plan"; and 2230-03-
800-01-01 "Skill Development" and/or any other budget line that the Bank may
agree in writing from time to time.
13. 
"EA&EMF" means Uttarakhand's environment assessment and environment
management framework dated March 2016 and disclosed on the Project
Implementing Entity's website and in the Bank's Infoshop on April 23, 2016,
setting forth: (a) the procedures for the screening of Project activities and the
identification of any adverse or positive environmental impacts caused, or
expected to be caused, on account of their implementation; and, if needed; (b) the
preparation of their prescribed environmental impact assessments and EMPs
therefor; as such framework may be revised, updated or supplemented from time
to time with the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
14. 
"EMP" means each of the ITI-specific environmental management plans to be
prepared by Uttarakhand pursuant to Section I.F.2 of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement, in accordance with the provisions of the EA/EMF, in each case setting
out mitigation, enhancement, monitoring and institutional measures, including
capacity building through training, required to: (i) eliminate adverse environmental
impacts of activities to be implemented under the Project; (ii) offset them, or
reduce them to acceptable levels; (iii) enhance any positive impacts thereof; and/or
(iv) ensure Uttarakhand's compliance with statutory environmental requirements
consistent with the EA/EMF, as each such plan may be revised, updated or
supplemented from time to time with the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
15. 
"Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's and Uttarakhand's fiscal year, which begins
on April 1 of each calendar year and ends on March 31 of the next calendar year.
16. 
"FY2018/19" means the Fiscal Year commencing on April 1, 2018 and concluding
on March 31, 2019.
17. 
"FY2019/20" means the Fiscal Year commencing on April 1, 2019 and concluding
on March 31, 2020.
18. 
"FY2020/21" means the Fiscal Year commencing on April 1, 2020 and concluding
on March 31, 2021.
19. 
"FY2021/22" means the Fiscal Year commencing on April 1, 2021 and concluding
on March 31, 2022.
- 22 
20. 
"FY2022/23" means the Fiscal Year commencing on April 1, 2022 and concluding
on March 31, 2023.
21. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
22. 
"GESI Guidelines" means the gender equality and social inclusion guidelines
incorporated into, and publicly disclosed with, the SSDP, setting out actions to: (i)
ensure equal participation of women and men benefitting from the Project without
discrimination; and (ii) better outreach to women, and other vulnerable groups.
23. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the reasonable costs of incremental
expenditures incurred by Uttarakhand on account of Project implementation,
management and monitoring, including, inter alia: (i) costs of incremental staff
salaries (other than consultants); (ii) dissemination of Project related information;
(iii) office rental and leasing operation and maintenance of equipment; (iv) office
supplies and utilities; (v) travel and boarding/lodging allowances; (vi) leasing,
operation and maintenance of vehicles; (vii) advertising and communication
expenses; and (viii) bank charges.
24. 
"Industrial Training Institute" and the acronym "ITI" mean industrial training
institutes within Uttarakhand jurisdiction.
25. 
"IUFR" means the interim unaudited financial reports to be prepared by
Uttarakhand pursuant to Section II.B.2 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
26. 
"Master Plans" means the plans to be prepared by each Priority ITI pursuant to
DLI #1, for purposes of improving the quality and relevance of their training, as
well as their institutional capacity for the delivery thereof, which plans shall
include, inter alia: (i) the assessment of current facilities, equipment and needs to
meet NCVT standards; (ii) female and disadvantage population participation
enhancement plans; and (iii) infrastructure/equipment expansion plans, as such
plans might be amended, revised, updated or supplemented from time to time.
27. 
"National Council for Vocational Training" and the acronym "NCVT" mean the
Borrower's National Council for Vocational Training (formerly known as the
National Council for Training in Vocational Trades) established in 1956, which
council has been entrusted with the responsibilities of prescribing standards and
curricula for craftsmen training, advising the Government of India on the overall
trades policy and programs, conducting "all-India trade tests," and awarding
"national trade certificates," or any successor thereto.
28. 
"NCVT Courses" means ITIs' training courses vetted by NCVT and awarding
national trade certificates.
- 23 
29. 
"NSDC" means the Borrower's National Skill Development Corporation; i.e. a
public private partnership initiative under the Borrower's Ministry of Skill
Development and Entrepreneurship, for purposes of promoting skills development
and catalyzing the establishment of vocational training institutes through, inter
alia: (a) financing enterprises, companies or individuals providing vocational
training; (b) guaranteeing quality assurance support; (c) creation of trainers
academies; and/or (d) developing appropriate models to enhance, support and
coordinate private sector initiatives for vocational training.
30. 
"NSQF" means the National Skills Qualifications Framework", a quality assurance
framework of the Borrower, approved and notified by the Borrower on December
27, 2013, pursuant to notification number 8/6/2013-Invt, which lays down
nationally recognized competency standards for all qualifications.
31. 
"NSQF-Level 3 (or above) Short Term Training" means short term training
corresponding to level 3 or above as indicated in the NSQF having a duration of
two hundred (200) to six hundred (600) hours of course attendance.
32. 
"Priority ITI" means a subset list of approximately twenty five (25) public ITIs,
selected and agreed with the Bank, pursuant to criteria reflected in the Project
Implementation Plan, for purposes of receiving packaged interventions for the
improvement of the quality, relevance and seating capacity of their training
courses, as such lists of ITIs might be amended, revised, updated or supplemented
from time to time with the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
33. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
34. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Project Implementing Entity's procurement plan
for the Project, dated May 8, 2018 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the
Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said
paragraphs.
35. 
"Professional Development Plan" and the acronym "PDP" mean the plan to be
prepared and adopted by DSDE for purposes of providing continued professional
development opportunities to teachers and staff of public ITIs, which plan shall
include, inter alia: (i) lists of competencies, partners, costs and timelines for the
provision of professional training; (ii) mechanisms for the stakeholder
consultations/feedback on trainings provided; and (iii) monitoring and evaluation
protocols for assessing the outcome of such trainings, as such plan might be
amended, revised, updated or supplemented from time to time.
36. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means Uttarakhand.
- 24 
37. 
"Project Implementation Plan" means the Project Implementing Entity's
implementation manual to be prepared pursuant to Section I.B of the Schedule to
the Project Agreement, in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank, for
purposes of carrying out the Project, which plan/manual shall comprise, inter alia:
(a) the Project implementation arrangements, including detailed operational
guidance and allocation of responsibilities among implementing agencies and
staff; (b) identification of key relevant staff, including SPIU critical staffing and
the Steering Committee's composition; (c) fiduciary standards, procedures and
requirements to be enforced/complied with during Project implementation; (d)
selection criteria for the identification of Priority ITIs; (e) list of revenue
generating activities eligible for implementation by Priority it is; (f) the
DLIs/DLRs verification protocols and arrangements, and the terms of reference
for the verification agents to be hired pursuant to Section I.D of Schedule to the
Project Agreement; and (g), monitoring and evaluation requirements and reporting
forms, as such manual/plan might be amended from time to time with the prior
written concurrence of the Bank.
38. 
"Safeguard Documents" means collectively the EA&EMF, the SSDP, the GESI
Guidelines, and the EMP(s).
39. 
"Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes" means any distinct, vulnerable, social
and cultural group within the territory of Uttarakhand, that: (a) (i) self-identifies as
such and claims, and is recognized by others as, having a distinguishable cultural
identity; (ii) has collective attachment to geographically distinct habitats or
ancestral territories in the Project area, and to the natural resources in these habitat
and territories; (iii) has customary cultural, economic, social and political
institutions that are separate from those of the dominant society and culture; and
(iv) has an indigenous language, often different from the official language(s) of the
Borrower and/or Uttarakhand; or (b) are defined as such in the Constitution of
India.
40. 
"State Council of Vocational Training" and the acronym "SCVT" means the
Uttarakhand's State Council of Vocational Training established pursuant to Govt.
Order No. 1334/ID/2001 -110 Industry/2001, dated February 28, 2002 under the
aegis of the Government of Uttarakhand.
41. 
"SSDP" means the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribe Development Plan dated
April 2016, developed by Uttarakhand and disclosed on the Project Implementing
Entity's website and in the Bank's Infoshop on April 23, 2016 setting forth: (i)
measures designed to ensure meaningful consultation with, and informed
participation of, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and their communities in
the design and implementation of the Project activities, their participation in the
envisioned culturally appropriate and socially inclusive benefits thereof, and/or
any mitigation and adaptive measures to offset, reduce to acceptable levels, or
eliminate, any adverse social impact to these communities under the Project; and
- 25 
(ii) the GESI Guidelines, as such plan may be amended from time to time with the
prior written concurrence of the Bank.
42. 
"State Project Implementation Unit" and the acronym "SPIU" mean the unit
established within DSDE and referred to in Section I.A. 1(b) of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement.
43. 
"Steering Committee" means the inter-departmental committee to be established
pursuant to Section I.A. 1(a) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
44. 
"Training and Workshops" means the reasonable costs of trainings, seminars,
workshops, conferences and study tours, conducted in India and/or overseas
including: (a) the fees of training institutions and courses; (b) domestic and
international travel costs, lodging costs, and subsistence/per diem allowances both
for trainers and trainees; (c) the rental of training facilities; and (d) preparation,
purchase or reproduction of training materials.
45. 
"UKSDM Legal Framework" means UKSDM's Articles of Association and By-
laws as amended to the date of this Agreement.
46. 
"Uttarakhand" means the Borrower's State of Uttarakhand.
47. 
"Uttarakhand Skills Development Mission" and the acronym "UKSDM" mean a
society established in Uttarakhand in 2013 under the Society Registration Act 1980
pursuant to Registration No.: 326/2012-2013, dated February 5, 2013.
48. 
"Year 1" means FY2018/19.
49. 
"Year 2" means FY2019/20.
50. 
"Year 3" means FY2020/21.
51. 
"Year 4" means FY2021/22.
52. 
"Year 5" means FY2022/23.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
- 26 
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement
(the "Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective
dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan
Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-
annually in arrears on each Payment Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any
surcharge, any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early
termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any
premium payable upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
