OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
ORIGINAL GRANT
SCF-PPCR GRANT NUMBER TF014588
ADDITIONAL GRANT
SCF-PPCR GRANT NUMBER TF0A7482-ZM
Strategic Climate Fund- Pilot Program
for Climate Resilience Grant Agreement
(Providing Additional Financing and Amending and Restating the Original Grant
Agreement for the Strengthening Climate Resilience PPCR (Phase II) Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
acting as an implementing entity of the Strategic Climate Fund- Pilot Program for
Climate Resilience
Dated 
\ 
Q 
,2018
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
SCF-PPCR GRANT NUMBER TF014588
SCF-PPCR GRANT NUMBER TF TF0A7482-ZM
STRATEGIC CLIMATE FUND- PILOT PROGRAM FOR CLIMATE
RESILIENCE GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
, 2018, entered into between REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
("Recipient"); and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION ("World
Bank"), acting in its capacity as an implementing entity of the Strategic Climate Fund
("SCF") - Pilot Program for Climate Resilience ("PPCR").
(A) 
under an agreement dated June 14, 2013 as amended to date, between the
Recipient and the World Bank ("Original Grant Agreement"), the World Bank, acting in
its capacity as an implementing entity of the SCF-PPCR, agreed to provide the Recipient
with a grant (SCF-PPCR Grant No. TFO 14588) in an amount of thirty-one million Dollars
($3 1,000,000) ("Original Grant") to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I
to the Original Grant Agreement ("Original Project");
(B) 
under an agreement dated June 14, 2013 as amended to date, between the
Recipient and the World Bank, ("Loan Agreement"), the World Bank, acting not in its
individual capacity but solely in its capacity as an implementing entity SCF-PPCR, agreed
to provide the Recipient with a loan (SCF-PPCR loan number TFO 14573) in an amount of
five million Dollars (US$5,000,000) ("Original Loan") to assist in financing the Original
Project;
(C) 
the Recipient has requested the World Bank, acting in its capacity as an
implementing entity of the Strategic Climate Fund SCF-PPCR to provide additional
financing from SCF-PPCR in support of activities related to the Original Project, by
providing a grant in an amount of one million one hundred thousand Dollars ($1,100,000)
("Additional Grant") and a Loan in an amount equivalent to thirteen million five hundred
thousand Dollars ($13,500,000) ("Additional Loan"); and
(D) 
the World Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to
extend such additional financing to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth
in this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the Recipient and the World Bank hereby agree to amend and
restate the Original Grant Agreement with effect from the Effective Date of this
Agreement, to read as follows:
Article I
Standard Conditions; Definitions
-2-
1.01. 
The Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank Out of Various
Funds, dated February 15, 2012 ("Standard Conditions"), constitute an integral
part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in this
Agreement.
Article II
The Project
2.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project described
in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project"). To this end, the Recipient shall carry
out the Project through the Ministry of National Development Planning in
accordance with the provisions of Article II of the Standard Conditions.
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Recipient and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Article III
The Grant
3.01. 
The World Bank agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in a total amount thirty-two million
one hundred thousand United States Dollars ($32,100,000) ("Grant") (consisting
of the Original Grant in the amount of ($3 1,000,000) and Additional Grant in the
amount of $1,100,000) to assist in financing the Project.
3.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
3.03. 
The Grant is funded out of the above-mentioned trust fund for which the World Bank
receives periodic contributions from the donors to the trust fund. In accordance with
Section 3.02 of the Standard Conditions, the World Bank's payment obligations in
connection with this Agreement are limited to the amount of funds made available to
it by the donors under the abovementioned trust fund, and the Recipient's right to
withdraw the Grant proceeds is subject to the availability of such funds.
-3-
Article IV
Effectiveness; Termination
4.01. 
This Agreement shall not become effective until evidence satisfactory to the World
Bank has been furnished to the World Bank that the conditions specified below have
been satisfied:
(a) 
The execution and delivery of this Agreement on behalf of the Recipient
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
(b) 
The SCF-PPCR Loan Agreement has been signed and delivered, and all
conditions of effectiveness of said agreement or the right of the Recipient to
withdraw funds thereunder have been satisfied, except for the condition that
this Agreement has become effective.
4.02. 
As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 4.01, there shall be
furnished to the World Bank an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the World Bank
of counsel acceptable to the World Bank or, if the World Bank so requests, a
certificate satisfactory to the World Bank of a competent official of the Recipient,
showing on behalf of the Recipient, that this Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on its behalf and is legally binding upon it in
accordance with its terms.
4.03. 
Except as the Recipient and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, this Agreement
shall enter into effect on the date upon which the World Bank dispatches to the
Recipient notice of its acceptance of the evidence required pursuant to Section 4.01
of this Agreement ("Effective Date"). If, before the Effective Date, any event has
occurred which would have entitled the World Bank to suspend the right of the
Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account if this Agreement had been
effective, the World Bank may postpone the dispatch of the notice referred to in this
Section until such event (or events) has (or have) ceased to exist.
4.04. 
This Agreement and all obligations of the parties under it shall terminate if it has
not entered into effect by the date 90 days after the date of this Agreement, unless
the World Bank, after consideration of the reasons for the delay, establishes a later
date for the purpose of this Section. The World Bank shall promptly notify the
Recipient of such later date.
Article V
Recipient's Representative; Addresses
5.01. 
The Recipient's Representative referred to in Section 7.02 of the Standard
Conditions is its minister responsible for finance.
5.02. 
The Recipient's Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions is:
-4-
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 50062
Lusaka
Zambia
Telex: 
Facsimile:
(+260) 42221 
(+260 211) 253494/251078
5.03. 
The World Bank's Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions
is:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INDEVAS 
248423 (MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI)
-5-
AGREED at LYL^VKA 
isus I, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: kjq4 yA cT
Title: M_ ______
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
acting as an implementing entity of the Strategic Climate
Fund - Pilot Program for Climate Resilience
By 
Authorized Represen tive
Name:
Title:__ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to strengthen the Recipient's institutional framework
for climate resilience and improve the adaptive capacity of vulnerable communities in the
Barotse sub-basin.
The Project constitutes the second phase of the Program, and consists of the
following parts:
Part I 
Strategic National Program Support
Carrying out a program of activities to strengthen the national institutional framework for
climate resilience, such program of activities to comprise the following:
(a) institutional support to the national climate change program through:(i) mainstreaming
of climate resilience into key national and sectoral policies and programs; (ii) provision
of short term and post graduate training opportunities for climate change champions,
knowledge sharing, analysis and dissemination; (iii) carrying out of studies on
management of external resources and climate risk financing; and (iv) operational
support to the Climate Change Coordinating Unit including in fiduciary management
and programmatic monitoring and evaluation, all through the provision of technical
assistance, the acquisition of goods, vehicles and equipment, the financing of
consultant services, the financing of Operating Costs and the carrying out of Training.
(b) providing support for enhanced climate and early warning information dissemination
through: (i) carrying out of social marketing awareness campaigns; (ii) application of
rapid communication systems between line agencies and communities in the pilot sub-
basins; and (iii) establishment of a pilot open data platform, all through the provision
of technical assistance and Training; acquisition of goods and equipment and financing
of consultant services, non-consultant services and Operating Costs.
(c) Identifying the challenges, risks and opportunities for producers to transform their
livelihoods into market based enterprises.
(d) developing a service delivery system for an information platform to facilitate the
dissemination and accessibility of information for producer groups and other users 
stakeholders.
Part 2 
Support for Participatory Adaptation
Carrying out a program of activities to strengthen the adaptive capacity of vulnerable rural
communities in the Barotse sub-basin, such program of activities to comprise the
following:
-7-
(a) Engaging the services of experienced non-governmental organizations and other
qualified facilitators to strengthen the capacity of communities to identify and
articulate climate risks, use participatory approaches to prioritize adaptation options,
prepare and implement sub-grant proposals and manage canals.
(b) Support to the Western Province and District Councils for: (i) carrying out of climate
risk and assessment studies for the Barotse sub-basin; (ii) mainstreaming of climate
resilience into regional plans and budgets; (iii) designing and overseeing the
implementation of structural and non-structural adaptation options; (iv) enhancing
access of Beneficiaries to adaptation knowledge and centers of expertise; and (v)
improving the policy and recurrent financing framework for traditional canals, all
through the provision of technical assistance; acquisition of goods and equipment and
financing of consultant services, non-consultant services and Training.
(c) Financing incremental operating expenditures and strengthening the capacity of the
Western Province and District Councils including in financial management, safeguards
screening and monitoring and evaluation, all through the provision of technical
assistance; acquisition of vehicles, goods and equipment; and financing of consultant
services and Operating Costs.
Part 3 
Pilot Participatory Adaptation
Carrying out a program of activities to pilot climate adaptation in the Barotse sub-basin,
such program of activities to comprise the following:
(a) Providing Sub-Project Grants to finance eligible Sub-Projects at the District, Ward
community groups and individual levels, and to finance innovations or scale up the
work of best performing Beneficiaries.
(b) Establishing and operating an Adaptation Contingency Fund to finance eligible Sub-
Projects based on the occurrence of a defined event (s) as detailed in the Participatory
Adaptation Implementation Manual.
(c) Rehabilitating and strengthening the management of traditional canals.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
Ministry of National Development Planning
1. 
The Recipient shall vest in the Ministry of National Development Planning
responsibility for overall Project execution, coordination and implementation of the
Project.
National Project Coordinating Unit
2. 
The Recipient shall maintain throughout Project implementation, the National Project
Coordinating Unit (NPCU), with an institutional framework and terms of reference
satisfactory to the World Bank and facilities and resources adequate to carry out its
responsibilities under the Project. Without limitation on the foregoing, the NPCU shall
be responsible for the day to day implementation of the Project at national level.
Climate Change Coordinating Unit,
3. 
The Recipient shall maintain through-out Project implementation, the Climate
Change Coordinating Unit, with an institutional framework and terms of reference
satisfactory to the World Bank and facilities and resources adequate to carry out its
responsibilities under the Project. Without limitation on the foregoing, the Climate Change
Coordinating Unit, shall be responsible for inter-ministerial coordination of the Project.
National Disaster Management and Mitigation Unit and the Zambia Metrological
Department
4. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain through-out Project implementation, the
National Disaster Management and Mitigation Unit (DMMU) and the Zambia
Metrological Department (ZMD), with an institutional framework and terms of
reference satisfactory to the World Bank and facilities and resources adequate to
carry out its responsibilities under the Project.
(b) 
Without limitation on the foregoing, the DMMU and ZMD shall be
responsible for the implementation of Part 1.B (ii) and (iii) of the Project.
Provincial Project Implementation Unit
5. 
(a) The Recipient shall: (i) maintain throughout Project implementation, the
Provincial Project Implementation Unit (PPIU), within the Western Province
-9-
administration headed by a Project manager, and comprising an environmental and
social safeguards management specialist, a monitoring and evaluation specialist,
adaptation specialist and an accounting assistant, all with qualifications,
experience, and terms of reference satisfactory to the World Bank; and (ii) ensure
that the PPIU has adequate resources to carry out its responsibilities under the
Project.
(b) Without limitation on the foregoing, the PPIU shall be responsible for
overseeing and facilitating the day-to-day implementation of the Project in the
Barotse sub-basin.
Provincial Planning Sub-Committee
6. 
(a) The Recipient shall maintain, throughout Project implementation, the
Provincial Planning Sub-Committee within Western Province with an institutional
framework and terms of reference satisfactory to the World Bank and facilities and
resources adequate to carry out its responsibilities under the Project.
(b) Without limitation on the foregoing, the functions of the Provincial Planning
Sub-Committee shall be to: (a) facilitate overall coordination of the Project in the
Province; and (b) endorse Sub-Projects for subsequent approval by the NPCU.
District Planner and District Planning Advisory Sub-Committee
7. 
The Recipient shall maintain, throughout Project implementation, the office of the
District Planner and the District Planning Advisory Sub-Committee within each
District, each with an institutional framework and terms of reference satisfactory
to the World Bank and facilities and resources adequate to carry out its
responsibilities under the Project.
8. 
Without limitation on the foregoing, the District Planner, under the guidance of the
District Planning Advisory Sub-Committee, shall be responsible for: (a)
mainstreaming climate resilience in District integrated development plans; (b)
facilitating, coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the Project at the
District, Ward and community levels; and (c) screening Sub-Projects against the
eligibility criteria and recommending them for consideration by the Provincial
Planning Sub-Committee.
B. 
Implementation Arrangements
Project Operational Manual and Participatory Adaptation Implementation Manual
1 .
The Recipient shall: (a) by not later than 90 days after the Effective Date, update
the Participatory Adaptation Implementation Manual to include implementation
arrangements for additional activities under Part 3 of the Project; (b) carry out the
-10-
Project in accordance with the Project Operational Manual and the updated
Participatory Adaptation Implementation Manual; and (b) except as the World
Bank shall otherwise agree in writing, not amend or waive, or permit to be
amended or waived any provision of the Project Operational Manual and the
Participatory Adaptation Implementation Manual.
2. 
In case of a conflict between the provisions of the Project Operational Manual or
the Participatory Adaptation Implementation Manual and this Agreement, those of
this Agreement shall prevail.
Annual Work Plans
3. 
The Recipient shall, not later than December 30 of each year prepare and furnish
to the World Bank, an annual program of activities proposed for implementation
under the Project during the following Fiscal Year, together with a proposed
budget and specification of the source or sources of financing for all Eligible
Expenditures.
4. 
The Recipient shall exchange views with the World Bank on each such proposed
annual work plan, and shall thereafter adopt, and carry out such program of
activities for such following Fiscal Year as shall have been agreed with the World
Bank, as such plan may be subsequently revised during such following Fiscal Year
with the prior written agreement of the World Bank (Agreed Annual Work Plan).
C. 
Sub-Projects
1. 
For purposes of implementation of Part 3 of the Project, the Recipient shall provide
Sub-Project Grants to Beneficiaries to implement Sub-Projects in accordance with
eligibility criteria and procedures acceptable to the World Bank and specified in
the Participatory Adaptation Implementation Manual which shall include the
following:
(a) 
Sub-Project Grants shall be provided for priority adaptation investments
and viable business enterprise investments identified through climate
resilience planning.
(b) 
Beneficiaries shall: (i) contribute part of the cost of Sub-Projects in cash
or in kind as stipulated in the Participatory Adaptation Implementation
Manual; (ii) meet minimum registration and fiduciary requirements as
established set out in the Participatory Adaptation Implementation
Manual; and (iii) open and maintain a bank account, where appropriate,
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the World Bank, for receiving
Beneficiary contributions and funds from the proceeds of the Sub-Project
Grants.
(c) 
Sub-Project Grants shall be made under a Sub-Project Grant Agreement
with the respective Beneficiary on terms and conditions acceptable to the
- 11 
World Bank, which shall cover rights adequate to protect its interests and
those of the World Bank, including the right to: (i) suspend or terminate
the right of the Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the Sub-Project Grant,
or obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount of the Sub-Project Grant
then withdrawn, upon the Beneficiary's failure to perform any of its
obligations under the Sub-Project Grant Agreement; and (ii) require each
Beneficiary to: (A) carry out its Sub-Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, economic, financial,
managerial, environmental and social standards and practices satisfactory
to the World Bank, including in accordance with the provisions of the
Anti-Corruption Guidelines; (B) provide, promptly as needed, the
resources required for the purpose; (C) procure the goods, works and
services to be financed out of the Sub-Project Grant in accordance with
the provisions of this Agreement;(D) maintain policies and procedures
adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate in accordance with indicators
acceptable to the World Bank, the progress of the Sub-Project and the
achievement of its objectives; (E) (1) maintain adequate records to reflect,
in accordance with sound accounting practices, the outputs, operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Sub-Project; and (2) at the
World Bank's or the Recipient's request, have such records and outputs
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the World Bank, in
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the
World Bank, and promptly furnish the report of such audit to the Recipient
and the World Bank; (F) enable the Recipient and the World Bank to
inspect the Sub-Project, its operation and any relevant records and
documents; (G) prepare and furnish to the Recipient and the World Bank
all such information as the Recipient or the World Bank may reasonably
request; and (H) take such measures as shall be necessary or appropriate
to comply with the requirements of the Environmental and Social
Management Framework (ESMF), the Resettlement Policy Framework 
RPF), the Pest Management Plan (PMP), and any Resettlement Action
Plans (RAPs) and/or Environmental Management Plans (EMPs), as the
case may be.
2. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each Sub-
Project Grant Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient
and the World Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Project. Except as the
World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive any Sub-Project Grant Agreement or any of its provisions.
D. 
Anti-Corruption
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
- 12-
E. 
Safeguard
1. 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the ESMF, the RPF, the PMP and any RAPs and/or EMPs.
2. 
Without limitation to the foregoing, the Recipient shall ensure that all technical
assistance under the Project, application of whose results would have
environmental or social implications, shall only be undertaken pursuant to terms
of reference reviewed and found satisfactory by the World Bank, such terms of
reference to ensure that the technical assistance takes into account the requirements
of the ESMF, the RPF, the PMP, any applicable RAP and or EMPs, and the
Recipient's own laws relating to the environment and social aspects.
3. 
Except as otherwise agreed in writing by the World Bank, the Recipient shall
require that in implementing Sub-Projects, the Beneficiaries take such measures as
shall be necessary or appropriate to comply with the requirements of the ESMF,
the RPF, the PMP, and any RAPs and/or EMPs, as the case may be.
4. 
The Recipient shall ensure that Project reports referred to in Section II.A of this
Schedule shall include adequate 
information on the implementation and
monitoring of the measures undertaken to implement the provisions of the ESMF,
the RPF, the PMP, and any RAPs and/or EMPs.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports; Completion Report
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions and
on the basis of indicators acceptable to the World Bank and set out in the Project
Operational Manual. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter
and shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end
of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management; Financial Reports; Audits
1. 
The Recipient shall ensure that a financial management system is maintained in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall
ensure that interim unaudited financial reports for the Project are prepared and
furnished to the World Bank as part of the Project Report not later than forty five
(45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, covering the quarter, in form and
substance satisfactory to the World Bank.
- 13 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements for the Project audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of the Standard Conditions.
Each such audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal
year of the Recipient. The audited Financial Statements for each such period and
a Management Letter shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six (6)
months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
All goods, works, non-consulting services and consulting services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in the Procurement
Regulations and the provisions of the Procurement Plan.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with the
provisions of Article III of the Standard Conditions, this Section and such
additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the Recipient
(including the "Disbursement Guidelines for Investment Project Financing" dated
February 2017, as revised from time to time by the World Bank and as made
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant ("Category"), the allocations of the
amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:
Category 
Amount of the 
Amount of the 
Percentage of
Original Grant 
Additional 
Expenditures
Allocated 
Grant 
to be Financed
(expressed in USD) 
Allocated 
Inclusive of
(expressed in 
Taxes)
USD)
(1) Goods, works, non- 
0 
100%
consulting services,
vehicles, consultants'
services under the Project
(except for Part 3.C of the
Project). 
9,839,000
- 14 
(2) Sub-Project Grants 
0 
100%
under Part 3.A of the
Project. 
5,088,000
(3) Adaptation 
0 
100%
Contingency Fund Sub-
Project Grants under Part
3.B of the Project 
400,000
(4) Training and 
0 
100%
Operating Costs 
3,271,000
(5) Goods, works, non- 
12,402,000 
1,100,000 
Such
consulting services, 
percentage of
consulting services, Sub- 
Eligible
Projects Grants under Part 
Expenditures as
3.A and Adaptation 
the World Bank
Contingency Fund Sub- 
may determine
Project Grants under Part 
as specified in
3.B of the Project and 
the respective
Training and Operating 
Agreed Annual
costs 
Work Plan
TOTAL AMOUNT 
31,000,000 
1,100,000
* 
The Eligible Expenditures can be claimed against any of the following: (i) Category 2 of
the Original Loan and the Additional Loan; and (ii) Category 5 of the Original Grant and
the Additional Grant, all in accordance with the percentages specified in the respective
Agreed Annual Work Plan.
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be
made for payments:
(a) made prior to the date of: (i) the Original Grant Agreement with respect to
amounts of the Original Grant; and (ii) this Agreement with respect to amounts of
the Additional Grant.
(b) 
under Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) after the date of this Agreement.
- 15 
2. 
The Closing Date referred to in Section 3.06 (c) of the Standard Conditions is
December 31, 2022.
- 16-
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Adaptation Contingency Fund" means the fund established under Part 3.B of the
Project to provide Sub-Project Grants contingent upon the early warning of a
disaster for the implementation of Sub-Projects aimed at increasing the
Beneficiaries' preparedness in the event that the disaster takes place.
2. 
"Agreed Annual Work Plan" means the program of activities agreed each Fiscal
Year between the Recipient and the World Bank for implementation under the
Project in accordance with Section .B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement during the
following Fiscal Year, as the same may be revised from time to time in accordance
with said Section.
3. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as
of July 1, 2016.
4. 
"Barotse Royal Establishment" mean the traditional chiefs of the Lozi community
recognized and operating under the Chief's Act, Chapter 287 of the Laws of the
Recipient.
5. 
"Beneficiaries" means the District Councils, Wards, community groups or
individuals who meet the eligibility criteria specified in the Participatory
Adaptation Implementation Manual for receiving Sub-Project Grants and to which
or for whose benefit a Sub-Project Grant is made or proposed to be made, and in
its singular form the term means any one such grouping.
6. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
7. 
"Displaced Person" means a person who, on account of the execution of the
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (A) relocation or loss of
shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or means
of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; or (ii) the
involuntary restriction to access to legally designated parks and protected areas,
resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such persons; and "Displaced
Persons" means more than one Displaced Person.
8. 
"District" means an administrative subdivision of the Recipient within a Province
established pursuant to Provincial and Districts Boundaries Act, Chapter 286 of
the Laws of the Recipient.
- 17-
9. 
"District Council" means a local government unit within the Recipient's territory
established and operating pursuant to Local Government Act, Chapter 281 of the
Laws of the Recipient.
10. 
"District Planner" means a staff of the Recipient responsible for planning at the
District level and referred to in Section L.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
11. 
"District Planning Advisory Sub-Committee" means the planning committee of
the Recipient established for each District comprising representatives from various
line ministries and government agencies at the district level, the Barotse Royal
Establishment and civil society, and referred to in Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
12. 
"Environmental 
Management Plan" or "EMP" 
means an Environmental
Management Plan acceptable to the World Bank and prepared in accordance with
the ESMF and "EMPs" means, collectively, all such plans.
13. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the
Environmental and Social Management Framework prepared and adopted by the
Recipient, dated February 2013, defining the set of mitigation, enhancement,
monitoring, and institutional measures to be taken during implementation of the
Project to eliminate any adverse environmental and social impacts, offset them,
reduce them to acceptable levels, or to enhance positive impacts of the Project
activities, as such framework may be amended by the Recipient from time to time,
with the prior written agreement of the World Bank.
14. 
"Fiscal Year" means each fiscal year of the Recipient commencing on January I
and ending on December 31.
15. 
"Management Letter" means, in respect of each of the audited Financial
Statements of the Recipient, a letter issued by the external auditors as part of the
annual audit report setting forth internal control weaknesses identified during the
audit period.
16. 
"Ministry of National Development Planning" means the Recipient's Ministry
responsible for matters relating to national development, or any legal successor
thereto.
17. 
"Climate Change Coordinating Unit" means a unit of the Recipient referred to in
Section l.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, established in the Ministry of
National Development Planning to oversee all climate resilience interventions in
the country and comprising of technical and operational Staff of the Recipient.
- 18-
18. 
"National Disaster Management and Mitigation Unit" or "DMMU" means a unit
of the Recipient referred to in Section LA of Schedule 2 to this Agreement
responsible for disaster management and mitigation and established and operating
under the Disaster Management Act, Act No. 13 of 2010, or its legal successor
thereto.
19. 
"Operating Costs" means the incremental expenses incurred by the Recipient for
Project implementation, supervision, management, and monitoring, on account of
office space rental and utilities, office supplies and consumables, bank charges,
communications, vehicle operation, maintenance and insurance, building and
equipment maintenance and insurance, Project related travel costs and subsistence,
advertising and contracted staff salaries (other than consultants' services), but
excluding salaries of civil servants.
20. 
"Participatory Adaptation Implementation Manual" means the Participatory
Adaptation Implementation Manual dated September 5, 2013, in form and
substance acceptable to the World Bank setting out the guidelines for community
participation in the Project, selection criteria and detailed guidelines and
procedures for the implementation of Sub-Projects, including administrative,
financial and accounting, procurement, social and environmental safeguards,
monitoring and evaluation procedures.
21. 
"Pest Management Plan" or "PMP" means the Recipient's plan acceptable to the
World Bank, dated February 2013, setting out the measures to be taken for the
development and implementation of integrated pest management and safe handling
of pesticides in the course of Project implementation, as the same may be modified
from time to time with the prior written agreement of the World Bank, and such
term includes any schedules or annexes to such Plan.
22. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Recipient's procurement plan for the Project, dated
February 19, 2018 and provided for under Section IV of the Procurement
Regulations, as the same may be updated from time to time in agreement with the
World Bank.
23. 
"Procurement Regulations" means the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for
IPF Borrowers", dated July 2016, revised November 2017.
24. 
"Program" means the Strategic Program for Climate Resilience designed to
mainstream climate change into the most economically vulnerable sectors of the
Recipient's economy and set forth or referred to in the letter dated June 14, 2011
from the Recipient to the World Bank.
25. 
"Project Operational Manual" or "POM" means the Project Operational Manual
dated September 5,2013 containing detailed guidelines and procedures for the
implementation of the Project, including in the areas of monitoring and evaluation,
- 19 
procurement, coordination, social and environmental safeguards, financial,
administrative and accounting procedures, corruption and fraud mitigation
measures, guidelines on Operating Costs, and such other arrangements and
procedures as shall be required for the Project.
26. 
"Province" means an administrative subdivision of the Recipient established
pursuant to Provincial and Districts Boundaries Act, Chapter 286 of the Laws of
the Recipient.
27. 
"Provincial Planning Sub-Committee" means the planning committee of the
Recipient established at the Western Province administration comprising
representatives from various line ministries and government agencies at the
provincial level, the Barotse Royal Establishment and civil society, and referred to
in Section l.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
28. 
"Provincial Project Implementation Unit" or "PPIU" means a unit of the Recipient
established in Mongu Western Province to oversee Project implementation in the
Barotse sub-basin and referred to in Section L.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
29. 
"RAP" means the resettlement action plan, in form and substance satisfactory to
the World Bank, prepared or to be prepared by the Recipient on the basis of the
RPF, and giving details of the specific actions, measures and policies designed to
facilitate the achievement of the objectives of the RPF, along with the procedural
and institutional measures needed to implement such actions, measures and
policies, as such RAP may be amended from time to time with the prior written
agreement of the World Bank.
30. 
"RPF" means the Resettlement Policy Framework acceptable to the World Bank,
dated February 2013, adopted by the Recipient, and giving details of provisions for
compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement assistance to Displaced Persons, as
such RPF may be amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the
World Bank.
31. 
"SCF-PPCR Loan Agreement" means the amended and restated Strategic Climate
Fund-Pilot Program for Climate Resilience Loan Agreement, entered into between
the Association, acting as an implementing entity of the Strategic Climate Fund 
Pilot Program for Climate Resilience and the Recipient on the same date as this
Agreement for the financing of the Project (SCF-PPCR Loan Agreement No.
TF014573-ZM and TF0A7494-ZM).
32. 
"Standard Conditions" means the Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the
World Bank Out of Various Funds", dated February 15, 2012.
33. 
"Sub-Project" means a priority investment proposed to be implemented by an
eligible District, Ward, community group or individual and which meets the
- 20 
eligibility criteria set out in the Participatory Adaptation Implementation Manual
and the provisions of Section 1. C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and are eligible
to receive financing under Part 3 of the Project, and Sub-Projects means two or
more of such investments.
34. 
"Sub-Project Grant" means a grant financing made or proposed to be made by the
Recipient for the purpose of financing eligible Sub-Projects under the Project and
referred to in Section 1. C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
35. 
"Sub-Project Grant Agreement" means an agreement acceptable to the World
Bank, between the Recipient and the Beneficiary through which the Recipient
provides Sub-Project Grants to eligible Beneficiaries, and referred to in Section
I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
36. 
"Training" means the reasonable costs of training under the Project, based on
annual budgets approved by the World Bank, and attributable to seminars,
workshops, study programs and tours, along with tuition, travel and subsistence
allowances for training participants, services of trainers and workshop facilitators,
rental of training facilities, preparation and reproduction of training materials, and
other activities directly related to course or workshop preparation and
implementation.
37. 
"Ward" means an electoral and administrative subdivision of the District Council
established pursuant to the Local Government Elections Act, Chapter 282 of the
Laws of the Recipient.
38. 
"Zambia Metrological Department" or "ZMD" means the metrological department
within the Recipient's Ministry of Transport and Communication.
