OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8702-AO
LOAN NUMBER 8876-AO
Amended and Restated
Loan Agreement
(Second Water Sector Institutional Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
July 19 
, 2018
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8702-AO
LOAN NUMBER 8876-AO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
July 19 
, 2018, between the
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA ("Borrower") and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank").
WHEREAS 
(A) 
under an agreement, dated 
June 
14, 
2017, between
the Borrower and the Bank ("Original Loan Agreement"), the Bank agreed to provide the
Borrower with a loan ("Original Loan") in an amount of two hundred million United States
Dollars (USD 200,000,000) to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to the
Original Loan Agreement ("Original Project");
(B) 
the Borrower has requested the Bank to provide additional financial
assistance in support of scaling up and adding new activities related to the Original Project,
by making available to the Borrower an additional loan ("Additional Loan") in an amount
of one hundred and fifty million United States Dollars (USD 150,000,000); and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing to extend
such additional 
assistance 
to 
the Borrower 
upon 
the terms 
and conditions
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree to amend and restate
the Original Loan Agreement, with effect from the Effective Date of this Agreement, to
read as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, an Original Loan and an Additional Loan (together,
the "Financing") in the following amounts, as such amounts may be converted
from time to time through a Currency Conversion, to assist in financing the project
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project"):
-2-
(a) 
an amount of two hundred million United States Dollars ($200,000,000)
("Original Loan"); and,
(b) 
an amount of one hundred and fifty million United States Dollars
($150,000,000) ("Additional Loan").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Original Loan and Additional
Loan in accordance with Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Financing amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Fixed Spread or such rate as may
apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates for the Original Loan and Additional Loan are April I and
October 1 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Original Loan and Additional Loan shall be repaid in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 and Schedule 4 to this Agreement,
respectively.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall carry out the Project, through MINEA, in collaboration with
INRH, IRSEA, and DNA, and with the assistance of the PWSUs, through the
respective Participating Agreement with respect to Parts 1(a) and 3 of the Project,
all shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consists of the following:
(a) 
The Borrower has created the FCMU-WB/AFD in a manner acceptable to
the Bank and has hired a senior financial management specialist, a Project
executive coordinator and two procurement specialists, with qualifications
and experience, and pursuant to terms of reference, satisfactory to the
Bank.
-3 
(b) 
The Project Implementation Manual, including financial management and
accounting procedures annexes, has been issued, updated and adopted by
the Borrower, and approved by the Bank.
(c) 
The Borrower has: (i) opened the Project Account, in a commercial bank
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment; (ii) promptly thereafter
has made a deposit of two hundred fifty million Kwanzas (K250,000,000)
to finance the Borrower's initial contribution to the costs of the Project;
and (iii) purchased and installed new automated accounting software,
acceptable to the Bank.
(d) 
The Co-financing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to
make withdrawals under it (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement)
have been fulfilled.
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
4.03. 
For purposes of Section 9.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement (other than those providing for
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its minister responsible for finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Minist6rio das Finangas
Largo da Mutamba
1235 Luanda, Angola
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at 
Luanda 
, 
Republic of Angola, as of the day
and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
By:
Authorized Representative
Name: 
Augusto Archer de Sousa Mangueira
Title: 
Minister of Finance
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By:
uthorized Representative
Name: 
Olivier Jacques Lambert
Title: 
Country Manager
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to strengthen the institutional capacity of selected
water sector agencies and increase water service coverage in Target Cities.
Part 1: Water Supply Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Development
Strengthening of the institutional framework for the water and sanitation sector
and building capacity at the Borrower's water and sanitation agencies at both
national and provincial levels, through:
(a) 
the provision of technical assistance and operational support for the
strengthening of PWSUs' management capacities and customer service,
including the provision of Performance Payments;
(b) 
the provision of technical assistance and capacity building to IRSEA to
build its capacity to fulfil its responsibilities as the Borrower's water and
sanitation regulator, including: (i) definition of IRSEA's organizational
structure, staffing and skills requirements; (ii) a beneficiary assessment,
(iii) development of water and sanitation regulatory instruments (including
reporting requirements, service standards, cost accounting standards, tariff
application procedures); (iv) design and development of an information
system/database for the water and sanitation sector; and (v) training and
capacity building; and
(c) 
the carrying out of a study on private sector participation in the water
sector to assess the potential for private sector participation in the water
sector.
Part 2: Water Resources Management
Strengthening of the institutional framework for water resource management,
through the provision of support for:
(a) 
[NRH central and regional directorates needed for the management of
hydro-meteorological information;
(b) 
INRH at the central level, including: (i) direct advisory and training
services to INRH and selected regional directorates; (ii) the preparation of
the fNRH Strategic Plan; (iii) design and implementation of a public
awareness 
and communications 
campaign; 
and (iv) 
design 
and
implementation 
of an economic 
instrument 
for water resources
management;
-6-
(c) 
the design and implementation of an information management system for
INRH, including specifications of hardware and software needed;
(d) 
the expansion of the Borrower's hydro meteorological monitoring network
consistent with the 2008 recommendations of the World Meteorological
Organization (with coverage of 1,875 square kilometers per station),
including: (i) the reconstruction of prioritized hydrometric stations,
including provision of equipment, services, goods and minor works;
(ii) the 
upgrade of prioritized 
hydrometric 
stations to 
include
meteorological monitoring capabilities; and (iii) the support to manage the
hydro meteorological monitoring network;
(e) 
INRH for: (i) the development and implementation of specific river basin
plans, including the implementation of priority actions identified under the
applicable plan; (ii) the piloting of the instrument for water resources
management developed under Part 2(b)(iv) of the Project, with respect to
the Kwanza River, including a comprehensive water user inventory,
consolidation of procedures and instruments for water use permits,
training and workshops with relevant stakeholders, dissemination
materials, publications and evaluation of its impact; and (iii) the
preparation of two additional integrated river basin management plans in
the Borrower's southern coastal region; and
(f) 
INRH for the preparation of a national dam safety plan including: (i) the
carrying out of a national inventory of existing dams and reservoirs,
including a description of main characteristics; (ii) an assessment by a
panel of experts of the safety status of prioritized dams, including the
preparation of an investment plan and other activities; (iii) preparation of
the legal and regulatory dam safety framework, including institutional
responsibilities, standards and technical safety guidelines; and (iv) the
development of a capacity-building program to support the dam safety
related activities described above.
Part 3: Rehabilitation and Expansion of Water Supply Production and Distribution
Provision of support to the PWSUs for the development of priority infrastructure
to expand system capacity, to increase service coverage and quality, and to
improve the operating efficiency of the production and distribution systems in
Target Cities, through:
(a) 
the rehabilitation and expansion of production facilities, including: (i) the
carrying out of civil and electro- mechanical works to improve water
production in Target Cities required to support expanding service
coverage; (ii) expansion and refurbishment of well fields and intake
facilities, as well as expansion and refurbishment of water treatment
-7-
facilities; 
(iii) construction of clear-water storage tanks and the
rehabilitation and expansion of transmission infrastructure, including new
pipelines, pump stations, telemetry/SCADA, and associated fittings; and
(b) 
the rehabilitation and expansion of distribution systems, including: (i) the
development of priority infrastructure to increase service coverage and
improve operational efficiency of the water distribution systems in Target
Cities; (ii) the rehabilitation of existing and construction of new
distribution centers, including increasing storage with ground tanks and
pressure through elevated water towers; (iii) water supply network
expansion and rehabilitation; (iv) installation of district meters and
pressure control valves within existing pipelines; and (v) installation of
approximately 186,500 new household connections with meters.
Part 4: Management and Engineering Support
Provision of goods, operational costs, engineering support, training and technical
assistance for Project management, technical oversight, financial management,
monitoring and evaluation, 
implementation of social 
and environmental
safeguards, as well as other investments in the water sector, including: (a) the
carrying out of engineering and other technical studies; (b) the design and
supervision of works and performance contracts; (c) support for community
consultation and communication activities; and (d) the update of sanitation master
plans in the capital cities of selected provinces, including stakeholders consultative
process.
Part 5: Piloting Small-Scale Sanitation Service Delivery in Peri-Urban Areas
Provision of support for:
(a) 
citywide inclusive sanitation planning and institutional development
through, inter alia: (i) the preparation of guidelines and an action plan for
capacity development and institutional support to DNA for updating and
drafting necessary policies and instruments for overseeing sanitation
service delivery; (ii) the preparation of guidelines and an action plan for
capacity development and institutional support to IRSEA for drafting and
implementing economic regulation for sanitation services, including a
framework for setting tariffs/fees for sanitation; (iii) the development of
the proposed approach and guidelines for the preparation of participatory
sanitation master plans, including focusing on women's participation; (iv)
the development of an action for the PWSUs where small-scale sanitation
infrastructure are made to, inter alia, build their capacity for operation and
maintenance of the fecal sludge management system and treatment
facility; (v) a study on private sector participation in the urban sanitation
service provision sector, with a focus on assessing the potential for private
-8-
sector pit/tank emptying; (vi) the development and carrying out of
behavior change and information campaigns on the importance of proper
sanitation and hygiene behaviors, including handwashing and toilet/latrine
maintenance; and (vii) the development of a national strategy for scaling
up the approach to urban sanitation, which will be informed by the
carrying out of pilot activities under Part 5(b) of the Project; and
(b) 
piloting the delivery of small-scale sanitation services in peri-urban areas
in selected Target Cities through, inter alia, the construction or
rehabilitation of sanitation infrastructure and related urban services
(drainage and solid waste management).
-9-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section 1. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower, through MINEA, shall: (a) create and thereafter maintain a unit (the
FCMU-WB/AFD) within MINEA, at all times during Project implementation,
with a structure, functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, including,
inter alia, the responsibility of the FCMU-WB/AFD to assist the Borrower in the
coordination, implementation, monitoring, evaluation and supervision of the
Project; (b) ensure that the FCMU-WB/AFD is, at all times during Project
implementation, headed by a Project executive coordinator and staffed with a
senior financial management specialist, two procurement specialists, two
procurement officers, an accountant, one social safeguards specialist and one
environmental safeguards specialist and professional and administrative staff, all
hired with terms of reference, through competitive processes, in numbers and with
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank; and (c) except as the
Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower shall not
introduce changes in the number of positions of the FCMU-WB/AFD or in the
professional skills required for occupying such positions, unless said changes have
been previously agreed in writing with the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower, through MTNEA, shall carry out the Project in accordance with a
manual (the Project Implementation Manual), acceptable to the Bank, said manual
to include, inter alia: (i) an institutional implementation plan for MINEA for the
management of the Project, including allocation of responsibilities among staff,
yearly planning of activities and budget and time allocation for those activities;
(ii) financial management and accounting procedures annexes; (iii) detailed
arrangements for the overall carrying out of the Project including, the procurement,
environmental and social guidelines to be followed during Project implementation
by the Borrower; (iv) detailed guidelines and procedures for the implementation
of the ESMF and RPF in connection with the carrying out of the Project;
(v) detailed guidelines for the preparation of Environmental Management Plans
and Resettlement Action Plans; (vi) the guidelines for Project monitoring and
evaluation; (vii) the detailed procedures and guidelines for the determination of
performance targets of the PWSUs for the purposes of monitoring and evaluating
annually the collected revenues and costs of operation, and (viii) the detailed
procedures and guidelines for the provision of Performance Payments to PWSUs
that have exceeded the performance targets specified in paragraph (vii) above.
Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower
shall not abrogate, amend, repeal, suspend, waive or otherwise fail to enforce the
Project Implementation Manual or any provision thereof and in case of any conflict
- 10-
between the terms of the Project Implementation Manual and those of this
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
3. 
The Borrower, through MINEA, shall not later than July 1 of each year during
Project implementation, or such later date as the Bank may determine, starting in
calendar year 2017, furnish to the Bank for approval, an annual action plan (the
Annual Action Plan), each said plan to include: (i) the Project activities to be
carried out during the twelve (12) months immediately following the presentation
of each said plan; (ii) the procurement plan, and disbursement schedule for each
said twelve (12) month period; (iii) the annual budget for Operating Costs for the
Project; (iv) the annual budget for Training under the Project; and (v) the amount
of counterpart funds needed and to be provided by the Borrower to carry out the
Project activities during said twelve (12) month period and thereafter implement
each said Annual Action Plan, approved by the Bank, in accordance with its terms.
4. 
The Borrower shall, not later than September 30, 2020, or such later date as may
be agreed upon by the Borrower and the Bank, carry out a mid-term review of the
Project, covering the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project.
5. 
The Borrower shall: (a) have all the procurement records and documentation of the
Project audited every two years in accordance with appropriate procurement
auditing principles by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, commencing
on the calendar year in which the first withdrawal under the Project was made; and
(b) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, the procurement audit report of such audit
by said auditors.
B. 
Participation of Provinces and PWSUs
1. 
For the purposes of implementing Parts 1(a) and 3 of the Project, the Borrower
shall enter into an agreement with a Participating Province (the Participation
Agreement), in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. Said Participation
Agreement shall include:
(a) 
the allocation of responsibilities for the development and management of
PWSUs;
(b) 
the obligation of the Participating Province to comply with the applicable
provisions of this Agreement;
(c) 
the performance targets of the PWSUs for purposes of monitoring and
evaluating annually the collected revenues and costs of operation;
(d) 
the agreed works to be financed by the Project in the Target Cities;
- 11 
(e) 
the necessary covenants to ensure that not later than September 30 of each
year of the Project, the Participating Province, jointly with the respective
PWSU, prepare and thereafter submit to IRSEA, a financing plan for its
PWSU describing: (i) how the operating costs of the PWSU will be
financed; and (ii) the planned adjustments to tariff levels, levels of
collections, and levels of subsidies required to achieve the agreed levels of
cost recovery for the following two calendar years;
(f) 
the necessary covenants to ensure that the respective Participating
Province take measures to ensure that its PWSUs do not incur in any debt
unless a reasonable forecast of their revenues and expenditures shows that
their projected earnings before interest, taxes, and depreciation for each
fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred, is at least 1.5 times
the projected debt service; and
(g) 
the necessary covenants to ensure that each PWSU's collected revenue
should cover at a minimum an increasing share of their operating costs, as
follows: (a) 35% in the first audited year; (b) 50% in the second audited
year; (c) 70% in the third audited year; (d) 80% in the fourth audited year;
and (e) more than 100% after the fifth audited year.
2. 
The Borrower, through FCMU-WB/AFD, not later than six months after the end
of each Fiscal Year (starting on 2018 for existing PWSUs and after the first year
of operations for those PWSUs created during Project implementation), shall
submit to the Bank an annual audit report for each PWSU, prepared by independent
auditors and in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. Said
audit report shall include: (a) any deviations to existing Borrower's tariff policies,
together with ajustification for said deviation; and (b) evidence that each PWSU's
collected revenue covers at a minimum an increasing share of their operating costs.
3. 
The Borrower may provide Performance Payments to any eligible PWSUs after
the respective annual audit report of said eligible PWSU had demonstrated that the
performance targets detailed in Section I.B.1(g) of this Schedule were achieved or
exceeded, all in a form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
C. 
Safeguards
1 .
The Borrower shall ensure that: (i) the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Safeguards Instruments; and (ii) any contracts for civil works
under the Project include codes of conduct in form and substance acceptable to the
Bank, detailing measures on environmental, health and safety, labor and
preventing and responding to HIV/AIDS, gender-based violence, and violence
against children. The Borrower shall ensure that no provision of the Safeguard
Instruments is amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived without the
prior written approval by the Bank.
- 12 
2. 
Without limitation to the excluded expenditures provision set forth in the
Safeguard Instruments, the following activities shall not be eligible to be included
in or funded under the Project ("Negative List"):
(a) 
any activities that would lead to conversion or degradation of critical
natural habitats or their supporting areas;
(b) 
any activities that would lead to conversion or degradation of critical forest
areas, related critical natural habitats, clearing of forests or forest
ecosystems;
(c) 
activities involving the financing of the rehabilitation or construction of
Large Dams; and,
(d) 
activities involving child or forced labor, as per the national legislation
enacted pursuant to the C138 - Minimum Age Convention, the C182 
Worst Forms of Child Labor Convention, and the C029 - Forced Labor
Convention.
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that all technical assistance under the Project, shall
only be undertaken pursuant to terms of reference reviewed and found satisfactory
by the Bank, such terms of reference to ensure that the technical assistance takes
into account, and calls for application of the Bank's environmental and social
safeguards policies and the Borrower's own laws relating to the environment and
social aspects including, but not limited to, national legislation enacted pursuant
its obligations under the C138 - Minimum Age Convention, the C182 - Worst
Forms of Child Labor Convention, and the C029 -Forced Labor Convention).
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that employees, agents, service providers, contractors
and subcontractors carry out the Project in conformity with acceptable
environmental and social standards, practices and codes of conduct (which shall,
inter alia, contain measures that prohibit, prevent and address gender based
violence and sexual exploitation and abuse), the provisions of the Borrower's
environmental and social laws (including, but not limited to, national legislation
enacted pursuant its obligations under the C138 - Minimum Age Convention, the
C182 - Worst Forms of Child Labor Convention and C029 -Forced Labor
Convention), the Safeguard Instruments.
5. 
If any Project activity would, pursuant to the RPF, require the preparation of a
RAP, no such activity shall be implemented, unless: (i) a RAP for such activity
has been: (A) prepared in accordance with the requirements of the RPF and
furnished to the Bank; (B) disclosed as required by the RPF; and (C) approved by
the Bank and publicly disclosed; and (ii) (A) all measures required to be taken
-13 
under said RAP prior to the initiation of said activity have been taken, including,
without limitation to the above, providing funds for resettlement compensation at
full replacement cost when and if required under a RAP; (B) a report, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank, on the status of compliance with the
requirements of said RAP has been prepared and furnished to the Bank; and (C)
the Bank has confirmed that the implementation of said activity may be
commenced.
6. 
Without limitation upon its other reporting obligations under this Agreement, the
Borrower shall collect, compile and furnish to the Bank on a calendar semester
basis (or with more frequency or in a separate report whenever the circumstances
warrant), reports in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, on the status of
compliance with the Safeguard Instruments, as part of the Project Reports, giving
details of:
(a) 
measures taken in furtherance of the Safeguards Instruments including the
Supplemental Social and Environmental Safeguard Instruments;
(b) 
conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the smooth
implementation of the Safeguards Instruments including the Supplemental
Social and Environmental Safeguard Instruments; and,
(c) 
remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such conditions
including but not limited to the implementation of a grievance redress
mechanism.
7. 
The Borrower shall, and shall cause to, throughout Project implementation,
maintain and publicize the availability of Project-level grievance and feedback and
redress mechanisms, in a form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, to hear and
determine fairly and in good faith all complaints and feedback raised in relation to
the Project, and take all measures necessary to implement the determinations made
by said grievance feedback and redress mechanism in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank.
8. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the terms of reference for any consultancy related
to the preparation of the Dam Safety Plan under Part 2(f) of the Project, shall be
satisfactory to the Bank and, to that end, such terms of reference shall require that
the advice conveyed through such consultancies and technical assistance be
provided by qualified consultants, satisfactory to the Bank, and consistent with the
requirements of the Bank Policies on Safety of Dams.
- 14 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar
semester.
Section III. 
Withdrawal of the Original Loan and Additional Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and
in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the
Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Original Loan and Additional Loan
to: (a) finance Eligible Expenditures; (b) pay: (i) the Front-end Fee; and (ii) each
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar premium; in the amount allocated and, if
applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category of the following
tables:
Amount of the 
Percentage of
Original Loan 
Expenditures to
(Loan No. 87020-AO) 
be financed
Allocated 
(inclusive of
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
Taxes)
(1) Goods, non-consulting services, 
16,636,000 
40%
consulting services, Operating
Costs, and Training for Part 1(a)
of the Project
(2) Goods, non-consulting services, 
7,651,000 
40%
consulting services, Operating
Costs, and Training for Parts 1(b)
and (c) of the Project
(3) Goods, consulting services, 
10,676,000 
40%
Operating Costs, and Training
for Parts 2(a), (b), (c), (e) and (f)
of the Project
(4) Goods, Works, consulting 
1,779,000 
40%
services, Operating Costs, and
Training for Part 2(d) of the
Proj ect
(5) Goods, Works, consulting 
116,542,000 
40%
services, and Operating Costs for
Part 3 of the Project
- 15 
(6) Goods, consulting services 
22,241,000 
40%
(including audits), Training and
Operating Costs for Part 4 of the
Project
(7) Performance Payments 
1,957,000 
40%
(8) Front-end Fee 
500,000 
Amount payable
pursuant to Section
2.03 of this
Agreement in
accordance with
Section 2.07(b) of
the General
Conditions
(9) Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
0 
Amount due
Collar premium 
pursuant to Section
4.05(c) of the
General Conditions
(10) Goods, Works, non-consulting 
22,018,000 
40%
services, consulting services,
Operating Costs, and Training
for Part 5 of the Project
TOTAL AMOUNT 
200,000,000
- 16-
Amount of the
Additional Loan 
Percentage of
(Loa No. 8876-AO) 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, non-consulting services, 
12,477,000 
30%
consulting services, Operating Costs, and
Training for Part 1(a) of the Project
(2) Goods, non-consulting services, 
30%
consulting services, Operating Costs, and 
5,738,000
Training for Parts 1(b) and (c) of the
Project
(3) Goods, consulting services, Operating 
30%
Costs, and Training for Parts 2(a), (b), (c), 
8,007,000
(e) and (f) of the Project
(4) Goods, Works, consulting services, 
30%
Operating Costs, and Training for Part 
1,334,000
2(d) of the Project
(5) Goods, Works, consulting services, and 
87,406,000 
30%
Operating Costs for Part 3 of the Project
(6) Goods, consulting services (including 
16,681,000 
30%
audits), Training and Operating Costs for
Part 4 of the Project
(7) Performance Payments 
30%
1,468,000
(8) Front-end Fee 
375,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07(b) of
the General Conditions
(9) Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar 
Amount due pursuant to
premium 
0 
Section 4.05(c) of the
General Conditions
(10) Goods, Works, non-consulting services, 
16,514,000 
30%
consulting services, Operating Costs, and
Training for Part 5 of the Project
TOTAL AMOUNT 
150,000,000
- 17-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made under the Original Loan and Additional Loan:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of the Original Loan Agreement,
except that withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
$20,000,000 may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or
after December 2, 2016, but not earlier than 12 months from the date of
the Original Loan Agreement, for Eligible Expenditures under Categories
(2), (3), (4) and (6);
(b) 
under Categories (1), (5) and (10) for each Participating Province unless
the Borrower has submitted evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that with
respect to said particular Participating Province, the Participating
Agreement between the Borrower, through MINEA, and the respective
Participating Province have been signed; and
(c) 
under Category (7) unless the Borrower has submitted to the Bank the
annual audit report referred to in Section I.B.2 of this Schedule for the
respective PWSU, indicating that the targets were achieved or exceeded,
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
2. 
The Closing Date for the Original Loan and the Additional Loan is March 31,
2024.
-18-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule for the Original Loan
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Original Loan
and the percentage of the total principal amount of the Original Loan payable on
each Principal Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Original
Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the
principal amount of the Original Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share
for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as
necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to
which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Loan No. 8702-AO) 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each April 1 and October 1 
2.08%
Beginning April 1, 2023,
through April 1, 2046
On October 1, 2046 
2.24%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Original Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Original Loan repayable by
the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Original Loan have been withdrawn
as of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
- 19 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Original Loan withdrawn within two calendar months
prior to any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of
calculating the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date,
be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
- 20 
SCHEDULE 4
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule for the Additional Loan
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Additional Loan
and the percentage of the total principal amount of the Additional Loan payable on each
Principal Payment Date ("Installment Share").
Level Principal Repayments
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Loan No. 8876-AO)
On each October I and April 1
Beginning October 1, 2024, 
2.08%
through October 1, 2047
On April 1, 2048 
2.24%
-21-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Affected Persons" means persons who, on account of an involuntary taking of
land under the Project, had or would have their: (a) standard of living adversely
affected; or (b) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises,
agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or
possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (c) access to productive assets adversely
affected, temporarily or permanently; or (d) business, occupation, work or place of
residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; and "Affected
Person" means any of the Affected Persons.
2. 
"Additional Loan" means IBRD Loan No. 8876-AO.
3. 
"Annual Action Plan" means any of the plans referred to in Section A.3 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
4. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006, and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
5. 
"Bank Policy on Safety of Dams" means the Bank's operational policy and
procedures set forth in the Bank's Operational Manual under OP/BP 4.37 on safety
of Dams, as said manual is published under www.WorldBank.org/opmanual
6. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section III of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
7. 
"Co-financier" 
means Agence Franqaise de Diveloppement, the French
Development Agency.
8. 
"Co-financing" means, for purposes of paragraph 16 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, an amount of$150,000,000 to be provided by the Co-financier
to assist in financing the Project.
9. 
"Co-financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Co-financier providing for the Co-financing.
10. 
"DNA" means Direcqdo Nacional de Aguas, the Borrower's National Water
Directorate within MINEA.
1. 
"Environmental Management Plan" means each plan to be prepared and adopted
by the Borrower pursuant to the ESMF, as may be required, setting out the
measures to be taken for the avoidance, minimization, mitigation and offsetting of
- 22 
potential adverse environmental and social impacts of the activities to be
implemented under the Project, as each said plan may be amended and/or
supplemented from time to time with the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
12. 
"ESMF" means the Borrower's updated environmental and social management
framework dated April, 2018, and disclosed in country on April 30, 2018, and in
the Bank's website on April 30, 2018, setting forth the policy framework,
principles, standards, processes and institutional arrangements to be applied to
assess potential adverse environmental and social impacts associated with the
Project, and the ways to avoid, minimize, mitigate or offset them, including public
consultation, disclosure and reporting, as the said framework may be amended
and/or supplemented from time to time with the prior written concurrence of the
Bank.
13. 
"FCMU-WB/AFD" means the Financial and Contract Management Unit within
MINEA and referred to in Section I.A. I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
14. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project
Financing", dated July 14, 2017.
15. 
"INRH" means Instituto Nacional de Recursos Hidricos, the Borrower's National
Institute of Water Resources.
16. 
"IRSEA" means Instituto de Regulaqdo dos Serviqos de Eletricidade, Agua e
Saneamento de Aguas Residuais, the Borrower's Institute of Electricy and Water
Services Regulation.
17. 
"Kwanza" means the lawful currency of the Borrower.
18. 
"MINEA" means the Ministrio de Energia e Aguas, the Borrower's Ministry of
Energy and Water.
19. 
"Operating Costs" means reasonable recurrent Project expenditures, based on an
annual budget previously approved by the Bank, that would not have been incurred
by the Borrower absent the Project, including: (a) office equipment and supplies;
(b) office utilities and reasonable communications expenses; (c) office rental
expenses; (d) Project's vehicles maintenance costs, fuel and spare parts; (e) travel
expenses and per diems for official Project staff (excluding salaries of Borrower's
civil servants); and (f) operation and maintenance of office equipment, financed
with the proceeds of the Loan, all needed for the implementation and supervision
of the Project.
20. 
"Original Loan" means the IBRD loan No. 8702-AO.
-23-
21. 
"Original Loan Agreement" means the agreement between the Borrower and
IBRD for the Original Loan, dated June 14, 2017.
22. 
"Original Project" means the project set out in Schedule I of the Original Loan
Agreement.
23. 
"Participation Agreement" means the agreement referred to in paragraph B.1 of
Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any
annexes and schedules to the Participation Agreement.
24. 
"Participating Province" means a political subdivision of the Borrower, selected
by the Borrower, in consultation with the Bank, according to the eligibility criteria
set forth in the Implementation Manual.
25. 
"Performance Payment" means the payments to be made to PWSUs out of the
proceeds of the Loan, as incentives for exceeding the performance targets set forth
in the relevant Participation Agreement.
26. 
"Procurement Regulations" means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF
Borrowers", dated July 2016, revised November 2017.
27. 
"Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 5.01(c) of the
Agreement.
28. 
"Project Implementation Manual" means the manual referred to in paragraph 3 of
Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any
annexes and schedules to the Operational Manual.
29. 
"PWSUs" means autonomous provincial water supply and sanitation utility
companies created and/or to be created pursuant to the provisions of the Public
Enterprise Law Number 11/13 of September 3, 2013.
30. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" means each plan to be prepared pursuant to the RPF as
may be required, setting out the principles, procedures, the time schedule governing
acquisition of rights to land, resettlement and compensation, as well as reporting and
monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan.
31. 
"RPF" means the Borrower's updated resettlement policy framework satisfactory to
the Bank, dated April, 2018, and disclosed in country on April 30, 2018, and in the
Bank's website on April 30, 2018, setting forth the guidelines and procedures for
preparation of a Resettlement Action Plan in the likely event of acquisition of rights
to land, resettlement procedures and compensation, institutional arrangements,
- 24 
including valuation procedures, budget, public consultation and participation,
monitoring and evaluation, and disclosure, as the same may be amended from time to
time with the agreement of the Bank.
32. 
"Target Cities" means the Borrower's cities of Kuito, Huambo, Lubango,
Moqdmedes, N'Dalatando, Malanje, Uige, Dundo, Luanda and Luena.
33. 
"Training" means reasonable expenditures, based on an annual budget previously
approved by the Bank, (other than those for consultants' services) incurred by the
Borrower, to finance transportation costs and per diem of trainers and trainees,
workshops, rental of training facilities and acquisition of training equipment and
material needed for the Project.
