OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8857-IN
GUARANTEE NUMBER G2580-IN
Loan Agreement
(Energy Efficiency Scale-Up Program)
between
ENERGY EFFICIENCY SERVICES LIMITED
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8857-IN
GUARANTEE NUMBER G2580-IN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between ENERGY EFFICIENCY
SERVICES 
LIMITED 
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank").
WHEREAS: (A) India has requested support from the Bank in favor of the
Borrower for an aggregate amount of $300,000,000;
(B) the Borrower and the Bank have agreed that such Bank support would be
provided in the form of:
(i) 
a Bank Loan in support of the Borrower's Program, for an amount of
$220,000,000; and
(ii) 
a Bank partial Guarantee of repayment of financing to be raised by the
Borrower from commercial lenders or bond subscribers for a maximum amount of
$80,000,000 ("Guarantee"), in support of activities under Parts 1 and 2 of the Program, as
further defined in the set of legal documents related to the Guarantee and the financing it
is intended to support;
in each case subject to the terms and conditions agreed between the Bank and the
Borrower (and others in the case of the Guarantee), and reflected in the relevant legal
agreements to be signed for the provision of such Loan and Guarantee, respectively.
NOW, THEREFORE, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of two hundred and twenty
million Dollars ($220,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to
-2-
time through a Currency Conversion ("Loan"), to assist in financing the program
described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Program").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall
be deposited by the Bank into an account specified by the Borrower and acceptable
to the Bank.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread; or such rate as
may apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure
Limit (as said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of
this Section), the Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of
one half of one percent (0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess
Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for
each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if any)
shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set
forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during
which the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit,
the product of: (A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the
ratio of all (or, if the Bank so determines, a portion) of the Loan
to the aggregate amount of all (or the equivalent portions) of the
loans made by the Bank to the Guarantor and to the Borrower and
other borrowers guaranteed by the Guarantor that are also subject
to an exposure surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably
determined from time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the
Bank's financial exposure to the Guarantor which, if exceeded,
-3-
would subject the Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined
from time to time by the Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total
financial exposure to the Guarantor, as reasonably determined by
the Bank.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Program. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Program in accordance with the provisions
of Article V of the General Conditions and Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that the
Borrower's Governing Documents have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the
Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Managing Director.
6.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) the Borrower's address is:
Energy Efficiency Services Limited
4th and 5th Floor, IWAI Building
A-13, Sector 1, Noida, Uttar Pradesh 201301
India; and
-4-
(b) the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile: 
E-mail:
+91(120)4908099 
ic@EESL.CO.IN
6.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions;
(a) the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
ENERGY EFFICIENCY SERVICES LIMITED
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
.
m 
L
Title: CHIEF (nEw;RA-tLA 
~ 
6
Date: 
Au(nsiT 2, 2 
i1g
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: H1SHAm 
AB3DO
Title: 
(fl~T 
Coum*j )3:-~cbTh-w0:i$A
Date: ~u(si5 us-r O1
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Description
The objectives of the Program are to scale up energy savings in residential and public
sectors, strengthen the Borrower's institutional capacity, and enhance its access to
commercial financing.
The Program consists of the following activities (included in FY 2018-22) in the
Borrower's overall corporate investments program for FY 2017-22:
1. 
Energy Savings and EE Market Transformation in the Residential Sector:
Scaling-up the EE delivery in the residential sector under the UJALA Program, focusing
on LED bulbs, tube lights and ceiling fans.
2. 
Energy Savings and EE Market Transformation in Public Street Lighting:
Delivering investments in public street lighting, under the SLNP Program.
3. 
Development of Sustainable Business Models in new EE Market Segments:
Supporting up-stream program development and incorporation of technical, environmental
and social sustainability elements into the design of the new initiatives, such as air-
conditioning, agriculture demand side management and Building EE Program, which
require additional preparatory work before sustainable scale-up; but expressly excluding
the actual capital investments for such new initiatives.
4. 
Institutional Strengthening for Sustainable EE Scale-Up:
Strengthening and developing the institution capacities of the Borrower, especially with
respect to technical, managerial, procurement, environmental and social capacity and
practices.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Program Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Program Institutions
The Borrower shall be responsible 
for the management, 
coordination,
implementation and monitoring and evaluation of the Program in accordance with
the following arrangements, which shall be maintained, throughout the period of
implementation of the Program:
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain in its headquarters, a National Program
Manager for its participation in the SLNP Program and the UJALA
Program.
2 
The Borrower shall maintain its headquarters and regional offices, each
with composition, institutional framework, powers, functions, and
resources satisfactory to the Bank, and supported by competent personnel
in adequate numbers for such purpose.
B. 
Additional Program Implementation Arrangements
1. 
Proaram Action Plan
Without limitation on the generality of Section 5.01(b) of the General Conditions,
the Borrower shall ensure that the Program Action Plan is carried out, in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section II. 
Excluded Activities
The Borrower shall ensure that the Program excludes any activities which:
A. 
in the opinion of the Bank, are likely to have significant adverse impacts
that are sensitive, diverse, or unprecedented on the environment and/or
affected people; or
B. 
involve the procurement of: (1) works (including turnkey, supply and
installation of plant and public private partnership) estimated to cost
$115,000,000 equivalent or more per contract; (2) goods (including
information technology systems) estimated to cost $75,000,000 equivalent
or more per contract; (3) non-consulting services, estimated to cost
$75,000,000 equivalent or more per contract; or (4) consulting services,
estimated to cost $30,000,000 equivalent or more per contract.
-8-
Section III. 
Program Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
1. 
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank each Program Report not later than one (1)
month after the end of each Fiscal Year, covering the Fiscal Year.
2. 
Without limitation on the generality of the provisions of Section III.1 above, the
Borrower shall:
(a) 
for the purpose of verifying Disbursement Linked Results, engage, with
the first such engagement not later than September 30, 2018, an
independent third-party entity or entities, with qualifications, experience
and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, to undertake the
verification process referred to in Section 111.2(b) below;
(b) 
undertake, as often as necessary in view of the submission of a withdrawal
application, a verification process, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank,
through the independent third-party entity or entities engaged pursuant to
Section 111.2(a) above, to ascertain whether the Disbursement Linked
Results have been achieved for the Periods under review; and
(c) 
furnish to the Bank corresponding verification reports, in form and
substance acceptable to the Bank, no later than one (1) month after the
completion of the verification to which it relates.
3. 
Mid-term Review. The Borrower shall:
(a) 
carry out jointly with the Bank, no later than thirty (30) months after the
Effective Date, or such other period as may be agreed with the Bank, a
midterm review of the Program to assess the status of Program
implementation, as measured against the indicators agreed with the Bank
and the legal covenants included or referred to in this Agreement;
(b) 
to this end, prepare and furnish to the Bank at least one (1) month before
such review, a report, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank and
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities
performed pursuant to Section 111.1 of this Schedule and the verification
activities carried out in accordance with Section III.2 of this Schedule, on
the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Program during the period
preceding the date of such report (including compliance with the Program
Action Plan) and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the
efficient carrying out of the Program and the achievement of the objectives
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c) 
review jointly with the Bank the report referred to in the immediately
preceding paragraph and thereafter take all measures required to ensure
-9-
the efficient completion of the Program and the achievement of the
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of such
report and the Bank's views on the matter.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and
in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the
Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) pay the Front-end Fee;
(b) pay each Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar premium; and (c) finance the
results ("Disbursement Linked Results" or "DLRs") achieved by the Borrower, as
measured against specific indicators ("Disbursement Linked Indicators" or
"DLIs"); all as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 of this Part A.
2. 
The following table specifies each category of withdrawal of the proceeds of the
Loan (including the Disbursement Linked Indicators as applicable) ("Category"),
the Disbursement Linked Results for each Category (as applicable), and the
allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category:
Category 
Disbursement Linked Result (as 
Amount of the
(including 
applicable) 
Loan
Disbursement 
Allocated
Linked Indicator 
(expressed in
as applicable) 
USD)
(1) DLI #1: Number 
(i) 57 million LED bulbs and tube lights 
For Period 1:
of LED bulbs and 
sold during Period 1 
$17,110,000
tube lights, sold by 
(ii) 63 million LED bulbs and tube lights 
For Period 2:
the Borrower under 
sold during Period 2 
$19,000,000
the UJALA 
(iii) 63 million LED bulbs and tube lights 
For Period 3:
Program. 
sold during Period 3 
$19,090,000
(iv) 33 million LED bulbs and tube lights 
For Period 4:
sold during Period 4 
$9,900,000
(v) 3 million LED bulbs and tube lights 
For Period 5:
sold during Period 5 
$900,000
(or, subject to the
Bank's 
option
under 
Section
IV.B.2
immediately
below, $0.30 per
LED bulb or tube)
- 10 
Total 
Aggregate
for Category 
1:
$66,000,000
(2) DLI #2: Number 
(i) 0.9 million EE ceiling fans sold during For Period 1:
of EE ceiling fans 
Period I 
$3,400,000
(BEE 5-star rating 
(ii) 1.2 million EE ceiling fans sold during 
For Period 2:
or above), sold by 
Period 2 
$4,540,000
the Borrower under 
(iii) 1.32 million EE ceiling fans sold 
For Period 3:
the UJALA 
during Period 3 
$4,990,000
Program. 
(iv) 1.2 million EE ceiling fans sold during 
For Period 4:
Period 4 
$4,540,000
(v) 1.2 million EE ceiling fans sold during 
For Period 5:
Period 5 
$4,530,000
(or, subject to the
Bank's option
under Section
IV.B.2
immediately
below, $3.78 per
fan)
Total 
Aggregate
for Category 2:
$22,000,000
(3) DLI # 3: 
(i) 1.8 million LED street lights installed 
For Period 1:
Number of LED 
during Period 1 
$19,250,000
street lights installed 
(ii) 1.8 million LED street lights installed 
For Period 2:
by the Borrower 
during Period 2 
$19,250,000
under the SLNP 
(iii) 1.8 million LED street lights installed 
For Period 3:
Program. 
during Period 3 
$19,250,000
(iv) 1.5 million LED street lights installed 
For Period 4:
during Period 4 
$16,040,000
(v) 0.3 million LED street lights installed 
For Period 5:
during Period 5 
$3,210,000
(or, subject to the
Bank's 
option
under Section
IV.B.2
immediately
below, $10.69 per
street light)
- 11 
Total 
Aggregate
for Category 3:
$77,000,000
(4) DLI # 4: EE AC 
No later than by the end of Period 4: 
$14,000,000
Sustainability 
(i) The Borrower's Board of Directors has
Action 
decided 
to 
implement 
EE 
air-
Implementation. 
conditioning actions; and
(ii) Pursuant to such decision, the Borrower
has:
(A) Included, in the packaging of the air-
conditioners sold by the Borrower,
consumer guides on safe refrigerant
replacement and disposal and buy
back options (where available);
(B) Started (without interruption until the
date of the withdrawal application) to
include, in the Borrower's bidding
documents 
from 
EE 
AC
manufacturers, 
request 
to
manufacturers 
to 
report 
AC
refrigerant 
disposal 
(including
Registered 
E-Waste
Dismantler/Recycler's verification or
evidence of disposal) in conformity
with 
India's 
Environmental
Protection Act, using the model
template provided by the Borrower, to
enable monitoring and recording of
AC disposal and recycling actions by
manufacturers intending to supply AC
units to the Borrower; and
(C) Conducted stakeholder consultations
(including 
at 
least 
3 
AC
manufacturers and 2 waste disposal
agents) on safe refrigerant disposal.
(5) DLI # 5: 
No later than by the end of Period 2: 
$8,000,000
Business Model for 
(i) The Borrower has approved a business
Collaboration with 
model designed to broaden service offering
Private Sector 
under the Building EE Program, including
ESCOs in the 
through partnership with private sector
Implementation of 
ESCOs. Such business model:
the Borrower's
- 12 
Building EE 
(A) 
includes 
a 
description 
of the
Program. 
partnership model(s) and the range of
targeted energy solutions;
(B) 
includes a description of the roles,
responsibilities and implementation
sharing risk between the Borrower
and private sector ESCOs;
(C) 
includes a description of the methods
of measurement and verification of
EE in buildings;
(D) 
includes a plan for consultation with
the private sector ESCOs; and
(E) 
reflects 
consultations 
with
stakeholders to inform the design of the
business model;
(ii) the Borrower has published a report on
the business model referred to in (i) above
and containing the elements described in
(i)(A) to (E) above on its website; and
(iii) the 
Borrower 
has 
conducted
consultations on the report referred to in (ii)
immediately above with at least 10 private
sector ESCOs and issued a report on such
consultations, including date, location,
material presented and/or distributed, list
and contact details of the participants, key
issues 
raised 
by 
the 
participants,
participants' responses to feedback survey
on the consultations.
(6) 
DLI 
# 
6: 
(i) No later than by the end of Period 2, the 
(i) $16,500,000
Establishment of a Borrower's Board of Directors has decided
sustainable 
to establish a sustainable development unit
development 
unit 
under the Managing Director, to ensure
and report on the environmental and social sustainability of
updated EHSS 
all the Borrower's activities, and approved
Manual covering all 
its terms of reference, sufficient budget to
EESL's programs 
implement the terms of reference, staffing
under 
plan and program to build staff capacity, as
implementation 
further specified below:
(A) Such terms of reference are consistent
with Annex VII of the ESSA and include,
inter alia:
(a) the continuous update of the Borrower's
EHSS Manual to ensure full coverage of
the Program Under Implementation by
- 13 
the Borrower and all environmental and
social risks and mitigation plans for all
the 
Borrower's 
Program 
Under
Implementation;
(b)the development of training on the
EHSS Manual and capacity building of
the Borrower's staff and contractors;
(c) the monitoring of compliance with the
EHSS Manual;
(d)the restructuring and operation of a
systematic and accessible grievance
redressal system; and
(e)the preparation of biennial (once every
two years) management report on the
implementation of the EHSS Manual;
and
(B) Such staffing plan includes full time
staff in adequate number to carry out the
responsibilities 
of 
the 
sustainable
development unit, and each with terms of
reference, qualifications and experience
commensurate 
with its responsibilities
within the unit.
(ii) No later than by the end of Period 5,
the Borrower having established (with a
budget 
sufficient 
to 
carry 
out 
its 
(ii) $15,950,000
responsibilities) 
its 
sustainable
development unit in accordance with its
Board decision referred to in paragraph (i)
immediately above and such unit having
carried out its activities in accordance with
its terms of reference, the Borrower's
sustainable development unit has produced
its report to the Borrower's management on
its first 24 months of activity and on the
first period of implementation of the EHSS
Manual (including an analysis of its
performance, strength and weaknesses).
(7) Front-end Fee to 
$550,000
be paid pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in
accordance with
Section 2.07(b) of
- 14 
the General
Conditions
(8) Interest Rate 
0
Cap or Interest Rate
Collar premium to
be paid pursuant to
Section 4.05(c) of
the General
Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
220,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
for purposes of Section 2.03 of the General Conditions, for DLRs achieved
prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed $55,000,000 may be made for such DLRs under
Category 1 (DLI # 1), Category 2 (DLI # 2) and Category 3 (DLI # 3),
achieved prior to this date but on or after April 1, 2017; or
(b) 
for any DLR under Categories (1) through (6), until and unless the
Borrower has furnished evidence satisfactory to the Bank (including such
report referred to in Section II.2(c) of this Schedule) that said DLR has
been achieved.
2. 
(a) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B. 1(b) of this Section, if any of the
DLRs under Category (1), (2) or (3) has not been achieved by the date by
which said DLR is set to be achieved, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower: (i) authorize the withdrawal of such lesser amount of the
unwithdrawn proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said Category which,
in the opinion of the Bank, corresponds to the extent of achievement of
said DLR, said lesser amount to be calculated in accordance with the
formula set out in the third column of the Disbursement Table; (ii)
reallocate all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said
DLR to any other DLR and/or (iii) cancel all or a portion of the proceeds
of the Loan then allocated to said DLR.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B. 1(b) of this Section, if the
Borrower has, by the date by which the said DLR is set to be achieved,
achieved results under Category (1), (2) or (3) in excess of the DLR
indicated in the Disbursement Table for the Period, the Bank may, by
notice to the Borrower, authorize the withdrawal of such greater amount
- 15 
of the unwithdrawn proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said Category
which, in the opinion of the Bank, corresponds to the extent of
achievement of said DLR, said greater amount to be calculated in
accordance with the formula set out in the third column of the
Disbursement Table. For the avoidance of doubt, the exercise of this
option by the Bank shall not have the effect of increasing the total
aggregate amount allocated to the relevant Category under the third
column of the Disbursement Table, but may only affect the sequencing of
the disbursement of the amounts corresponding to each DLR.
3. 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2022.
- 16 
SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share").
Level Principal Repayments'
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning May 15, 2023
through May 15, 2036 
3.57%
On November 15, 2036 
3.61%
' The determination of the principal amounts of the Loan repayable on each Principal Payment
Date is made in accordance with Section 3.03 of the General Conditions.
- 17-
SCHEDULE 4
PROGRAM ACTION PLAN
The Program Action Plan includes institutional strengthening actions to ensure that the
Borrower is well equipped to deliver activities and achieve results under the Program.
Action Description and Due Date
1. 
The Borrower shall, no later than March 31, 2019:
o 
Update the Borrower's Guidelines, Policy and Procedure for Procurement of
Goods, Works and Non-Consulting Services ("Guidelines") to add additional
market methods/ approaches commensurate with the size and complexity of the
procurement to be handled by the Borrower in the future;
o 
Update its Standard Bidding Documents ("SBDs"), in line with the Guidelines;
o 
Develop a standard template for Memoranda of Understanding ("MoUs") with
the Borrower's government clients (States, State owned enterprises, urban local
bodies, etc.); and
o 
Adopt and disseminate such Guidelines, SBDs and MoUs, and train staff,
vendors and clients on such documents.
2. The Borrower shall:
o 
no later than Sept. 30, 2018, disseminate its Quality Assurance Manuals and
dispense training on quality assurance in street and domestic lighting to staff and
vendors; and
o 
no later than March 31, 2019, develop and adopt a manual (including standard
protocols) for quality assurance of the Borrower's efficient ceiling fans program,
disseminate it and dispense training on such manual to staff and vendors.
3. 
No later than September 30, 2018, the members of the Borrower's Audit Committee
of the Board shall include two independent directors.
4. 
No later than March 31, 2019, the Borrower shall prepare, adopt and implement
finance manual(s) covering all financial management functions in line with current
systems, and issue an internal notification of their application as of April 1, 2019.
5. 
The Borrower shall ensure that:
o 
No later than September 30, 2018, its audit committee approves terms of
reference in form and substance acceptable to the Bank to strengthen the Borrower's
internal audit function; and
o 
such internal audit function is performed in accordance with its terms of
reference approved under paragraph (i) immediately above throughout the period of
implementation of the Program.
6.
o 
The Borrower shall, no later than March 31, 2019, develop and adopt its strategy
on EE market transformation of residential lighting. Such strategy shall:
* include reporting on activities (and their results) associated with the Borrower's
roles/functions related to, inter alia, (a) bulk procurement; (b) quality assurance
(e.g., equipment quality assurance and warranty); (c) environmental sustainability;
- 18 
and (d) marketing and outreach (including programs targeting low income/poor
households and women consumers/users); and
* specify the indicators the Borrower will track, including: (i) number of LED bulbs
sold by the Borrower and other sellers; (ii) the Borrower's bulb cost; (iii) prices of
the bulbs sold by the Borrower and by other sellers; (iv) the Borrower bulbs market
share and other sellers' market share; (v) number of manufacturers selling LED
bulbs in India's residential LED lighting market; (vi) number of direct employment
created by the Borrower (of which women); (vii) estimated number of beneficiaries
(of which women and girls).
o 
No later than March 31, 2022, the Borrower shall report to the Bank on key
strategy indicators.
7. The Borrower shall, no later than March 31, 2020, produce and make publicly
available (including by posting it on its website) a report (i) containing an
independent review and evaluation of the agricultural demand side management
models examined/tested by the Borrower; and (ii) reporting on the Borrower's
sustainability actions and indicators including:
i. Sampling and data recording of ground water levels prior to the installation of
agricultural pump sets;
ii. The Borrower's compilation of available real-time monitoring data from smart
panels for all EE agricultural pump sets installed;
iii. The Borrower's collection of reported data on ground water level data collection
(by State ground-water Board) and evaluation of the suitability of EE agricultural
pump equipment in that particular region, along with information on: (a) water
extraction from the fields for non-agricultural uses and mechanism(s) to
control/limit water consumed for non-agriculture uses; and (b) changing crop
patterns, if any;
iv. The Borrower's sampling of ground water measurement in each region where
agricultural demand side management activities are implemented or proposed;
v. The Borrower-organized farmer education workshops (on both energy and water
efficiency); and
vi. The Borrower's education material on EE agricultural pump systems (including
guidance on irrigation efficiency and pump usage).
8. The Borrower shall no later than March 31, 2020, develop and implement a plan for
systematic and periodic independent evaluation of each Borrower's Program Under
Implementation, including program impact assessment, challenge identification and
consumer perspectives collection, to inform such program design; and (having
carried out the first two such independent evaluation reports) share with the Bank
the first two reports.
9. The Borrower shall, no later than March 31, 2020:
o 
Develop and adopt a training program, and install a training center, for EE
capacity building and training of the Borrower's staff, EE private sector targeting
private sector ESCOs and other EE service providers, and the Borrower's customers,
to: (i) ensure continued development of the Borrower's human resources necessary
- 19-
for the Borrower's long-term growth; and (ii) facilitate and support private sector
participation in India's EE market segments; and
o 
report on the delivery of the first training session including: (i) the date and
location of such training; (ii) training agenda; (iii) training material; (iv) list and
contact details of participants; and (v) participant responses to feedback survey on
training session.
10. The Borrower shall, no later than March 31, 2020:
o 
develop a baseline of the number of women it employs (including direct staff,
short term contracted staff, and apprentices) at each level (managerial, technical,
administrative); and
o 
track, on an ongoing basis, how many women it directly employs at each level
(managerial, technical, administrative)
11. The Borrower shall, no later than March 31, 2019, strengthen and operationalize the
complete EHSS Manual to: (i) cover all existing gaps; (ii) strengthen it with
provisions, Standard Operating Protocols and Documentation Formats to guide and
manage all Programs Under Implementation no later than twelve (12) months after
its qualification as Program Under Implementation; (iii) provide procedures 
mechanisms to update it in the future; (iv) include a program to completely
disseminate it among, and train, the staff, vendors and support agencies; and (iv)
describe procedures for compliance monitoring.
12. The Borrower, with financial advisors' support, shall, no later than March 31, 2019,
develop, and its management shall approve, a long-term financial resource
mobilization plan.
- 20 
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"AC" means air conditioning.
2. 
"Anti-corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the Bank's "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Program-for-Results Financing," dated February 1, 2012,
and revised July 10, 2015.
3. 
"Borrower's Governing Documents" means the Borrower's Memorandum and
Articles of Association, dated December 4, 2009, as the same shall have been
amended to the date of this Agreement.
4. 
"Building EE Program" means the program of the Borrower, to retrofit lighting
and cooling appliances, and other measures to reduce energy consumption in
buildings.
5. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
6. 
"Disbursement Linked Indicator" or "DLI" means in respect of a given Category,
the indicator related to said Category as set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
7. 
"Disbursement Linked Result" or "DLR" means in respect of a given Category,
the result under said Category as set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule
2 to this Agreement, on the basis of the achievement of which, the amount of the
Loan allocated to said result may be withdrawn in accordance with the provisions
of said Section IV.
8. 
"Disbursement Table" means the table specifying each category of withdrawal of
the proceeds of the Loan (including the Disbursement Linked Indicators as
applicable) ("Category"), the Disbursement Linked Results for each Category (as
applicable), and the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category, in
Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
9. 
"EE" means energy efficiency.
10. 
"EHSS Manual" means the Borrower's Environmental, Occupational Health, and
Safety and Social Manual, which contains guidance to its staff to identify and
mitigate environmental, occupational health, and safety and social risks while
carrying out its operations both in office and off-site.
11. 
"ESCO" means an energy service company.
- 21 
12. 
"ESSA" means the document prepared by the Bank entitled "Environmental and
Social System Assessment (ESSA) for the proposed India Energy Efficiency
Scale-Up Program Report" dated January 2018.
13. 
"Fiscal Year" or "FY" means the Borrower's fiscal year, commencing on April 1
and ending on March 31.
14. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for 1BRD Financing, Program-for-Results
Financing", dated July 14, 2017, with the modifications set forth in Section II of
this Appendix.
15. 
"LED" means light emitting diode.
16. 
"Period" means a period of time, as further defined below.
17. 
"Period 1" means the period of time starting on the date of this Agreement and
ending on March 31, 2019.
18. 
"Period 2" means the FY starting on April 1, 2019 and ending on March 31, 2020.
19. 
"Period 3" means the FY starting on April 1, 2020 and ending on March 31, 2021.
20. 
"Period 4" means the FY starting on April 1, 2021 and ending on September 30,
2021.
21. 
"Period 5" means the FY starting on October 1, 2021 and ending on March 31,
2022.
22. 
"Program Action Plan" means the Borrower's plan attached to this Agreement as
Schedule 4 and referred to in Section I.B. I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
23. 
"Program Under Implementation" means a program of activities of the Borrower,
carried out in accordance with its corporate investment program, with respect to
which the Borrower has determined no later than March 31 of the previous Fiscal
Year that it qualifies as a "Program Under Implementation" for the subsequent
Fiscal Year, on the basis of the following criteria: (a) (i) the Borrower has
completed at least three rounds of procurement and deployment, as per the
technical specifications set forth in the relevant procurement documents for the
implementation of such program; or (ii) the Borrower has made investments of at
least two billion Indian Rupees (INR 2,000,000,000) in projects of that program,
and has received management approval to continue program deployment in the
subsequent year, whichever is earlier; and (b) the Borrower's investment
projections for the subsequent Fiscal Year for such program is higher than the
investment made during the Fiscal Year when such determination is made.
24. 
"Quality Assurance Manuals" means, collectively, the Borrower's manual,
including standard protocols, for quality assurance with respect to street lighting,
- 22 
dated August 2017, and the Borrower's manual, including standard protocols, for
quality assurance with respect to domestic lighting, dated September 2016.
25. 
"Registered E-Waste Dismantler/Recycler's" means waste disposal agents or
service providers, including hazardous waste management services providers, that
are authorized and registered under the laws of India, to receive electronic waste
to dismantle, recycle or dispose of.
26. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the
date of the Loan Agreement" in the General Conditions.
27. 
"SLNP Program" means India's Street Lighting National Program for the
replacement of conventional street lights with LED lights.
28. 
"UJALA Program" means India's "Unnat Jyoti by Affordable LEDs for All" for
the implementation of which the Borrower is providing LED bulbs, tube lights and
ceiling fans for domestic consumers/households.
Section H. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1 .
Paragraph 85 (Program Expenditures) of the Appendix to the General Conditions
is deleted in its entirety and replaced by the following new paragraph:
"85. 
"Program Expenditure" means an expenditure that meets the requirement
of Section 2.03, comprising of: (a) the cost of LED bulbs, tube lights and ceiling
fans sold under the UJALA Program and associated distribution and awareness
costs; (b) the cost of street light installed under the SLNP Program and associated
installation costs; and (c) salaries and employee benefits to the Borrower's staff,
but expressly excluding any such expenditures financed by the Bank or the
Association under any other loan, credit or grant or an expenditure financed by a
party beneficiary of a guarantee provided by the Bank or the Association, and any
expenditure financed by another multilateral or bilateral development partner."
