OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8853-AR
Loan Agreement
(Supporting Effective Universal Health Coverage in Argentina Project)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of three hundred million Dollars,
($300,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower's Representative for purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is its Minister of Treasury
or MoF's Undersecretary of International Financial Relations.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project, through MSN, with the assistance of the Participating
Provinces (as provided under the corresponding Umbrella Agreements), all in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
that the Ministerial Resolution has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the
implementation, objectives and results of the Project.
(b) 
that any Participating Province shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under its Umbrella Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that any of the
events specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occur and is continuing for a period of
60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty days (120) days after the
Signature Date.
ARTICLE VI- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower's Representative is
its Minister of Treasury.
6.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) the Borrower's address is:
Ministry of Treasury
Hip6lito Yrigoyen 250
C1086AAB, Buenos Aires
Argentina;
and
(b) the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
E-mail:
121942-AR 
(5411) 4349-8815 
privada@mfin.gob.ar
6.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
E-mail:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
jhentschel@worldbank.org
64145(MCI)
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By
epresentative
Name: 
v(ded Qou*E
Title: TV j-&-C 
0e AC K)\
Date: 1-i. t2---)!
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
thorized Representative
Name: 
_ 
__
Title: 
I
Date:
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) increase effective and equitable coverage of key
health services provided to the Eligible Population; and (b) increase the institutional capacity of
MSN and MSPs to implement mechanisms for an integrated delivery system.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Support the Strengthening of Effective Public Health Coverage
1.1 Making Capitation Payments for the provision of selected general health interventions.
1.2 Making Capitation Payments for the provision of selected high-complexity diseases
interventions.
Part 2: Strengthening the Institutional Capacity of the National and Provincial Ministries of
Health
2.1 Providing support to MSN and MSPs for increasing their coordination and establishing an
integrated quality-based model of care within the public health subsystem through: (a) the
enhancement of Participating Provinces' efforts towards Empanelment and the carrying out of
Training to health workers at primary care facilities for the targeting of new eligible patients within
the geographical area mapped to each health facility; (b) the development and tracking of effective
quality-of-care measures at the health facility level; (c) the definition of services and standards for
the Borrower's entire public health subsystem; (d) the improvement of integration of health
information systems; (e) the provision of support for cost recovery by public health service
providers from Obras Sociales; (f) the enhancement of coordination among different health
programs; and (g) the provision of technical assistance for the development and implementation of
mechanisms for payments to health service providers.
2.2 Improving the service delivery capacity of MSN and MSPs required to enhance effective
coverage in the Borrower's public health subsystem through: (a) the provision of equipment based
on a systematic analysis of service delivery gaps identified per Participating Province, especially
at the primary level for key lines of care and for high-complexity diseases networks; (b) the
provision of equipment, services and information technology for MSN and MSPs, based on a
systematic analysis of gaps and the level of provincial involvement in the activities supporting the
integration of information systems under Part 2.1(d).
Part 3: Supporting Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
3.1 (a) Provision of technical assistance to strengthen the capacity of the PCT, the UFI-S, the UAC,
and the PIUs; (b) carrying out of Project monitoring and evaluation activities; and (c) carrying
out of the financial and independent technical audits for the Project.
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional Arrangements
1. 
For the purposes of assisting MSN in the overall management of the Project, the Borrower,
through MSN, shall:
(a) 
operate and maintain throughout the execution of the Project, within the MSN: (i)
a Project coordination team (PCT); (ii) an international health financing team
(UFI-S); and (iii) an administrative unit (UAC), to manage Project implementation
with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank and staffed with
personnel in number and with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank
as set forth in the Operational Manual; and
(b) 
cause the Participating Provinces, through the Umbrella Agreements, to operate
and maintain throughout the execution of the Project, within the respective MSPs,
provincial implementation units (the PIUs), with functions and responsibilities
acceptable to both the Borrower and the Bank and with staff in number and with
qualifications and experience acceptable to both the Borrower and the Bank.
2. 
For the purposes of implementing Part 1 of the Project, the Borrower, through MSN, shall:
(a) 
prepare, as applicable, and thereafter maintain during the execution of the Project,
a list of eligible health services divided in two sections (the selected general health
interventions and the selected high-complexity diseases interventions), to be
provided by Authorized Providers acceptable to the Bank; and
(b) 
develop a matrix of health indicator goals for Part 1.1 of the Project (the
Trazadoras Matrix) in number and substance to be recorded in the Operational
Manual, for the purposes of monitoring the achievement of such indicator goals
and transferring the Capitation Payments on a periodic basis to the Participating
Provinces, all under terms acceptable to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through MSN, and the Bank shall jointly review at least once every year,
the Capitation Payment amounts, the eligible health services included under Parts 1.1 and
1.2 of the Project, and the Trazadoras Matrix, and adjust them (in number and substance)
as necessary, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
4. 
Without limitation of the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the Borrower,
through MSN, shall carry out the Project in accordance with an operational manual,
satisfactory to the Bank (the Operational Manual), containing, inter alia: (a) the terms of
reference, functions and responsibilities for the personnel of the PCT, PIUs, UAC and UFI-
S responsible for the coordination, monitoring and evaluation of the Project; (b) the criteria,
detailed rules and procedures for the Capitation Payments; (c) the procedures for
procurement of goods, non-consulting services and consulting services, as well as for
financial management and audits of the Project; (d) the indicators to be used in the
monitoring and evaluation of the Project; (e) the draft models for the Umbrella Agreements
and Annual Performance Agreements; (f) detailed criteria for the conversion of Eligible
Population into Enrolled Population (procedures, activities and monitoring indicators for
the enrollment of said population); (g) detailed criteria for the determination, measurement
and control of Effective Coverage; (h) the eligibility criteria for the incorporation and
maintenance of Provinces into the Project; (i) the procedures for the revision and
adjustment of the selected health services under Parts 1.1 and 1.2 of the Project and the
Trazadoras Matrix; (j) procedures for the implementation of the Empanelment strategy;
(k) the flow and disbursement arrangements of Project funds; (1) the Indigenous Peoples
Planning Framework, including criteria to ensure adequate and culturally appropriate
access by indigenous peoples to the Project; and (m) the Environmental Management
Framework.
5. 
(a) 
The Borrower, through MSN, shall maintain operative guidelines (the Provincial
Operative Guidelines), satisfactory to the Bank, which shall contain those chapters
of the Operational Manual of direct concern to the Participating Provinces and their
role in the implementation of the Project. Said operative guidelines shall be an
annex to the Umbrella Agreement.
(b) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower through MSN shall not
amend, waive or fail to enforce the Operational Manual or the Provincial Operative
Guidelines, or any provision thereof. 
In case of any conflict between the
provisions of this Agreement and those of the Operational Manual or the Provincial
Operative Guidelines, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
6. 
For purposes of the carrying out of Project activities for a respective Participating Province
and for the purposes of enabling said Participating Provinces to continue providing the
required assistance under the Project, the Borrower, through MSN, shall:
(a) 
before carrying out any Project activities, enter into an agreement (the Umbrella
Agreement) with the respective Participating Province, setting forth the technical,
financial, administrative, safeguard and fiduciary aspects of the national and
provincial participation in the implementation and use of funds under the Project,
including, inter alia: (i) the obligation of the Participating Provinces to make
available the Padr6n de Obra Social Provincial to MSN, all in terms and
conditions acceptable to MSN and the Bank; and (ii) the obligation of each
Participating Province to provide its respective counterpart funding.
(b) 
every year, starting immediately after the Effective Date for the first year of the
Project, and no later than March 31 thereafter, enter into a performance agreement
(the Annual Performance Agreement) with each Participating Province, setting
forth annual targets for the Trazadoras Matrix and enrollment goals, the payment
mechanisms and prices to be paid for each health service to Authorized Providers
under Part 1.1 of the Project, work programs and resource requirements for the
implementation of the Project, all on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank;
(c) 
before the carrying out of any Project activities, cause each Participating Province
(through the respective Umbrella Agreement) to: (i) enter into an agreement (or
other formal arrangement when the provider is a public entity) with an Authorized
Provider (the Authorized Provider Agreement), setting forth, inter alia, the
Participating Provinces' payment mechanisms with respect to each of the
Authorized Providers; and (ii) ensure that payments from each of the Participating
Provinces to the Authorized Providers are made only for payment of selected
general health interventions included under Part 1.1 of the Project;
(d) 
cause the respective Participating Province, when applicable in accordance with
the provisions of the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework (through the
respective Umbrella Agreement), to prepare (if determined by the IPPF and the
Bank), and carry out the applicable Indigenous Peoples Plan in accordance with its
terms;
(e) 
cause the respective Participating Province throughout Project implementation, to
take all necessary actions to enable the Borrower to comply with its pertinent
obligations as set forth under this Agreement, including those set forth or referred
to in the General Conditions and the Anti-Corruption Guidelines, in respect of the
carrying out of the Project as it may apply to the assistance provided by the
respective Participating Province; and
(f) 
(i) exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each Umbrella Agreement
and each Annual Performance Agreement in such a manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan;
(ii) cause each Participating Province to exercise its rights and carry out its
obligations under each amended Authorized Provider Agreement in such a manner
as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan; and (iii) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not assign,
amend, abrogate, repeal, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Umbrella
Agreement and/or Annual Performance Agreement or any provision thereof.
7. 
For purposes of implementing Part 1.2 of the Project, the Borrower, through MSN, shall:
(a) 
establish, operate and maintain throughout Project execution, within MSN, a
national fund for high complexity diseases ("NFHCD"), in a manner and under
terms acceptable to the Bank;
(b) 
prior to making any payments to an Authorized Provider with NFHCD Funds: (i)
enter into an agreement with said Authorized Provider (the Authorized Provider
Agreement II), setting forth, inter alia, the payment mechanisms with respect to
the pertinent Authorized Provider; and (ii) ensure that payments with NFHCD
Funds to the Authorized Provider are made solely for payments of selected high-
complexity diseases interventions referred to under Part 1.2 of the Project;
(c) 
(i) exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each Authorized Provider
Agreement II in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and (ii) except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate, repeal, terminate, waive or fail to
enforce any Authorized Provider Agreement II or any provision thereof.
8. 
Capitation Payments under Part 1.1 of the Project. The Borrower, through MSN, shall
make Capitation Payments available to a Participating Province, only after said
Participating Province has fulfilled the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational
Manual and the requirements set forth in this Agreement in order to become a Participating
Province. Unless otherwise agreed with the Bank, such Capitation Payments shall be made
in two installments: (a) 50% every month, immediately after the Participating Province has
sent to MSN the monthly registry with the Enrolled Population as of the previous month
and MSN has certified and validated said registry, and certified that said Enrolled
Population has received Effective Coverage; and (b) 50% to be disbursed initially every
four months, after verification of the Participating Province's performance with respect to
the Trazadoras Matrix, as provided in the Operational Manual, the Provincial Operative
Guidelines and the Annual Performance Agreements. The initial four month period may
be modified if necessary, in a manner satisfactory to both the MSN and the Bank.
9. 
Capitation Payments under Part 1.2 of the Project. The Borrower, through MSN, shall
make Capitation Payments available to the NFHCD (the NFHCD Funds), every month (or
at other period agreed with the Bank), on the basis of MSN's national beneficiary registry
of the Enrolled Population as of the previous month, in accordance with the guidelines
further detailed in the Operational Manual. The Borrower, through MSN, shall use the
NFHCD Funds to make payments to Authorized Providers, all in accordance with the terms
of the Authorized Provider Agreement II and this Agreement.
10. 
(a) 
For the purposes of the certification and validation procedure referred to in 8 and 9 above,
the Borrower, through MSN, shall: (i) appoint under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank and thereafter maintain during the execution of the Project, an independent technical
auditing entity with qualifications and terms of contracting satisfactory to the Bank (the
Technical Auditor) responsible for performing bimonthly (or any other interval acceptable
to the Bank) audits on: (A) the Trazadoras Matrix, the registry of Enrolled Population, and
the provision of Effective Coverage with respect to Part 1.1 of the Project; and (B) MSN's
national beneficiary registry with the Enrolled Population under Part 1.2 of the Project; and
(ii) use as support documentation the Padr6n de Obra Social Provincial, the Padrdn de
Obras Sociales Nacionales, and the reports provided by the Technical Auditor, all in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) 
In case a Participating Province fails to comply with its obligations under the Umbrella
Agreement, as set forth in the Operational Manual, the Borrower, through MSN, may
suspend the right of said Participating Province to receive funds under Part 1.1 of the
Project.
11. 
The Borrower, through MSN, shall:
(a) 
no later than March 31 of every year of Project implementation, furnish to the Bank for its
approval, an annual implementation plan (the Annual Implementation Plan), each said plan
to include, inter alia: (i) the Project activities to be carried out by the Borrower, through
MSN, during the calendar year following the presentation of each said plan; and (ii) the
updated Procurement Plan for each said calendar year; and
(b) 
thereafter implement each said Annual Implementation Plan, as approved by the Bank, in
accordance with its terms.
B. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower, through MSN, shall and, if applicable, shall cause the Participating
Provinces to implement the Project in accordance with the EMF.
2. 
The Borrower, through MSN, shall and, if applicable, shall cause the Participating
Provinces to: (a) implement the Project in accordance with the Indigenous People Planning
Framework, when applicable; and (b) update and thereafter implement the pertinent
Indigenous Peoples Plan in accordance with its terms, and in a manner acceptable to the
Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through MSN, shall ensure that the terms of reference for any consultancies
related to the technical assistance provided under the Project, shall be acceptable to the
Bank following its review thereof and, to that end, such terms of reference shall duly
incorporate the requirement of the Bank's Safeguard Policies then in force, as applied to
the advice conveyed through such technical assistance.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
The Borrower, through MSN, shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than
sixty days after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar semester.
Section HI. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in
accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible Expenditures; and (b) pay: (i)
the Front-end Fee; and (ii) each Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar premium; in the
amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category of
the following table:
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods 
27,437,200 
100%
(2) Consulting services, non- 
74,891,096 
100%
consulting 
services 
and
Training
85% until December 31,
(3) Capitation Payments under 
171,365,246 
2019; 40% until December
Part 1.1 of the Project 
31, 2020; and 25% thereafter
(4) Capitation Payments under 
21,100,000 
50%
Part 1.2 of the Project
(5) Operating Costs 
4,456,458 
100%
Amount payable pursuant to
(6) Front-end Fee 
Section 
2.03 
of 
this
750,000 
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07(b) of the General
Conditions
(7) 
Interest 
Rate 
Cap or 
0 
Amount 
due 
pursuant 
to
Interest Rate Collar premium 
Section 4.05(c) of the General
Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
300,000,000
2. 
For purposes of the preceding table the terms:
(a) 
"Operating 
Costs" means the reasonable cost of incremental recurrent
expenditures of MSN related to Project implementation such as, inter alia,
consumable items, banking fees (excluding any taxes levied for financial
transactions), utilities and supplies and salaries of MSN staff assigned to the
Project, which would not have been incurred absent the Project; and
(b) 
"Training" means expenditures (other than those for consultants' services)
incurred by MSN to finance, inter alia, reasonable transportation costs and per-
diem of trainees and trainers (if applicable), training fees, and rental of training
facilities, materials and equipment under the Project.
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions: Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $60,000,000 may be made for payments made
prior to this date but on or after March 8, 2018 (but in no case more than one year
before the Signature Date), for Eligible Expenditures under Categories (3) and (4);
or
(b) 
for expenditures under Categories (3) before the loan proceeds allocated to
Category (3) of Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to Loan Agreement 8516-AR have
been fully disbursed; or
(c) 
for expenditures under Category (4) before the loan proceeds allocated to
Category (4) of Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement 8516-AR
have been fully disbursed; or
(d) 
under Categories (3) and (4), until the Technical Auditor has been contracted
under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; or
(e) 
under Category (4) until the NFHCD has been duly established in a manner
acceptable to the Bank.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2022.
SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date ("Installment Share").
Level Principal Repayments
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
On each April 1 and October 1
Beginning October 1, 2025
through April 1, 2049 
2.04%
On October 1, 2049 
2.08%
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption
in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006
and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
2. 
"Annual Implementation Plan" means each implementation plan referred to in Section
I.A. 11 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
3. 
"Annual Performance Agreement" means each agreement referred to in Section I.A.6(b)
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
4. 
"Arg$" means Argentine Peso, the lawful currency of the Borrower.
5. 
"Authorized Provider" means any public or private health facility which meets the criteria
set forth in the Operational Manual.
6. 
"Authorized Provider Agreement" means each agreement entered into between each
Participating Province, through its MSP, and an Authorized Provider, referred to in Section
I.A.6 (c) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
7. 
"Authorized Provider Agreement II" means each agreement entered into between the
Borrower, through MSN, and an Authorized Provider, referred to in Section I.A.7(b) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
8. 
"Capitation Payment" means: (i) a financial transfer from the Borrower, through MSN, to
the Participating Provinces, under Part 1.1 of the Project, in an initial amount ranging from
Arg$ 56 to Arg$ 69 per person included in the Enrolled Population with Effective Coverage
(as this amount may be revised from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank), to
cover a share of the total cost of the selected general health interventions; or (ii) a financial
transfer made by the Borrower, through MSN, to NFHCD, for the Enrolled Population
under Part 1.2 of the Project in an initial amount of Arg$ 1.20 per person (as this amount
may be revised from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank), to cover a share
of the total cost of the selected high complexity diseases interventions provided to the
Enrolled Population, as further detailed in the Operational Manual.
9. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
10. 
"Effective Coverage" means the provision of a health service intervention to an individual
within the Enrolled Population, according to each defined age group and in a given period
of time, included within the selected general health interventions and/or the selected high-
complexity diseases interventions, and billed to the Program, as this coverage mechanism
is further detailed in the Operational Manual.
11. 
"Eligible Population" means all children under 10 years of age, youths from 10 to 19 years
of age, women and men from 20 to 64 years of age, all exclusively covered by the
Borrower's national and/or provincial public health subsystem, living within the territory
of a Participating Province.
12. 
"Enrolled Population" means the Eligible Population that has enrolled in the Program in a
Participating Province.
13. 
"Environmental Management Framework" means the Borrower's framework, acceptable
to the Bank (included in the Operational Manual), published in the Borrower's territory on
November 17, 2017 and in the Bank's website on November 27, 2017, which includes,
inter alia, health care waste management.
14. 
"Empanelment" means the assignment of the Eligible Population to a regular primary
Authorized Provider for seeking, identifying and formally registering Eligible Population
as patients and ensuring comprehensive and continuous care.
15. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing", dated July 14,
2017.
16. 
"Indigenous Peoples Plan" or "IPP" means any of the plans acceptable to the Bank,
prepared, adopted and updated by the Borrower, and/or the pertinent Participating Province
when applicable as set forth in the Operational Manual, all prepared and updated to be
carried out following the requirements of the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework.
17. 
"Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework" or "IPPF" means the Borrower's framework,
acceptable to the Bank (included in the Operational Manual), published in the Borrower's
territory on November 17, 2017, and in the Bank's website on November 27, 2017, setting
forth the indigenous peoples policy framework applicable to all the activities to be carried
out under the Project and the basis and procedures to prepare and adopt indigenous peoples'
plans or related instruments during Project implementation.
18. 
"Loan Agreement 8516-AR" means the Loan Agreement entered into between the
Borrower and the Bank, dated March 31, 2016, for the Additional Financing for Provincial
Public Health Insurance Development Project.
19. 
"Ministerial Resolution" means the Borrower's Resolution No. 866, dated June 25, 2015
and duly published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on July 2, 2015.
20. 
"MSN" means Ministerio de Salud de la Naci6n, the Borrower's Ministry of Health, or
any successor thereto.
21. 
"MSP" means Ministerio de Salud Provincial (or its equivalent in each Province), each of
the Borrower's Participating Provinces' Ministries of Health.
22. 
"NFHCD" means the Borrower's National Fund for High Complexity Diseases referred to
in Section I.A.7 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
23. 
"NFHCD Funds" means the financial transfers referred to in Section I.A.9 of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
24. 
"Obra Sociales" means the Borrower's national health insurance entities, referred to in
Article I of the Borrower's Law 23.660, as amended (Agentes del Seguro Nacional de
Salud) and the Borrower's national institute for social services for retirees.
25. 
"Operational Manual" means the Borrower's manual dated March 7, 2018, referred to in
Section I.A.4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
26. 
"Padr6n de Obra Social Provincial" means each of the Participating Provinces' enrollment
databases containing information regarding individuals included in the Province's social
health insurance scheme.
27. 
"Padr6n de Obras Sociales Nacionales" means the national enrollment database
consolidating information regarding individuals included in national social health
insurance schemes.
28. 
"Participating Province" means any Province or the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires
(CiudadAut6noma de Buenos Aires) that has fulfilled the requirements of this Agreement
and the Operational Manual to be eligible to participate in and receive funds from the
Project.
29. 
"PCT" means the Project coordination team referred to in Section I.A. 1(a) (i) of Schedule
2 to this Agreement, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
30. 
"PIU" means any of the Provincial units referred to in Section I.A.1(b) of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
31. 
"Procurement Regulations" means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF Borrowers", dated
July 2016, revised November 2017.
32. 
"Program" means the Borrower's Universal Health Coverage Program, as set forth in the
Ministerial Resolution, with the objective of strengthening the coverage and quality of
health services to be provided throughout the Borrower's territory, or any successor thereto
acceptable to the Bank.
33. 
"Province" means a political subdivision of the Borrower as per Title Two of the
Borrower's Constitution or the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires (Ciudad Aut6noma de
Buenos Aires), and the term "Provinces" means all of said political subdivisions.
34. 
"Provincial Operative Guidelines" means the operative guidelines referred to in Section
I.A.5 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
35. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the date of the Loan
Agreement" in the General Conditions.
36. 
"Technical Auditor" means the independent auditing entity mentioned in Section I.A. 10 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
37. 
"Trazadoras Matrix" means the matrix agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, as set
forth in the Operational Manual, which contains the health indicator goals for Part 1.1 of
the Project referred to in Section I.A.2(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
38. 
"UAC" means MSN's Under-secretariat of Administrative Coordination, or any successor
thereto acceptable to the Bank.
39. 
"UFI-S" means MSN's team referred to in Section I.AI(a) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
40. 
"Umbrella Agreement" means each agreement entered into between the Borrower, through
MSN, and each Participating Province, referred to in Section I.A.6(a) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
