OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8897-ID
Loan Agreement
Program to Accelerate Agrarian Reform (One Map Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
2 of 17 
LN 8897-ID
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the
project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project"), has requested the Bank to extend a loan
to assist in the financing of the Project; and
(B) the Borrower intends to provide forty million United States Dollars (USD 40,000,000) as
Counterpart Funds to finance Part 1.6 of the Project;
NOW THEREFORE, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form part
of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have the
meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of two hundred million United States
Dollars (USD 200,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn
Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are August 01 and February 01 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit (as said
terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of this Section), the Borrower shall pay
to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of one half of one percent (0.5%) per annum of the Allocated
Excess Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for each said day
("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if any) shall be payable semi-annually in
arrears on each Payment Date.
3 of 17 
LN 8897-ID
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during which the Total
Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit, the product of: (A) the total amount of said
excess; and (B) the ratio of all (or, if the Bank so determines, a portion) of the Loan to the
aggregate amount of all (or the equivalent portions) of the loans made by the Bank to the
Borrower and to other borrowers guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an
exposure surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined from time to time by
the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the Bank's financial exposure
to the Borrower which, if exceeded, would subject the Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as
determined from time to time by the Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total financial exposure to the
Borrower, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project through the Ministry of Agrarian Affairs and Spatial
Planning/National Land Agency (ATR/BPN) and the Geospatial Information Agency (BIG) in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness is that the Borrower has adopted the Project
Operations Manual in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower's address is:
Directorate General of Budget Financing and Risk Management
Ministry of Finance
Gedung Frans Seda
Jalan Dr. Wahidin Raya No. 1
Jakarta 10710
Indonesia; and
(b) the Borrower's Electronic Address is: Facsimile: +62-21-381-2859
4 of 17 
LN 8897-ID
5.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
REPUBLIC OF 
DONESIA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: L-QV' 
XFIRMAQ
Title: 
FWANOP&I 
AWlt:fl7 
MANAGC6N16.N)l
Date: 
OCTo6t 
2,6, zt6
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
-_(05tin, _ra_;If_
Title: 
-
' 
Com+j Nrector
Date: 
0 A0 6tr 9, 2012
5 of 17 
LN 8897-ID
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to establish clarity on actual land rights and land use at the
village level in the Target Areas.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Participatory mapping and agrarian reform
Carrying out a program designed to produce village level parcel maps in Target Areas, facilitate land
rights regularization and registration in the Electronic Land Administration System (eLand), and
demarcate Forest Area boundaries through such activities as:
1. 
Preparatory data acquisition, collation and processing for PTSL.
2. 
Inclusive and participatory implementation of PTSL in Project Provinces.
3. 
Demarcation of Forest Area boundaries.
4. Development of eLand.
5. 
Rolling out of eLand in Project Regencies.
6. 
Land rights regularization, adjudication, dispute resolution and land registration in the eLand
system.
Part 2: Geospatial data infrastructure for environmental and natural resource management
1. 
Supporting densification of Continuously Operating Reference Stations (CORS) network.
2. 
Strengthening of National Spatial Data Infrastructure (NSDI) technology infrastructure and
services.
3. 
Supporting the geo-referencing of existing data of high-resolution satellite imagery in LAPAN
for the working maps in Target Areas.
Part 3: Project management, institutional development and monitoring
1. 
Supporting the overall capacity of the Project implementing entities at national and subnational
levels to coordinate, manage, implement and supervise the implementation of the Project,
including, inter alia: (a) carrying out of financial management, procurement management as
well as environmental and social safeguards management; (b) monitoring, evaluation and
reporting of the Project; and (c) support of inter-ministry/agency coordination.
2. 
Conducting studies and analysis to strengthen the policy, legal, regulatory and institutional
frameworks.
3. 
Facilitating awareness raising, vulnerability mapping, social monitoring, legal assistance,
dispute resolution facilitation and safeguards implementation for participatory mapping and
agrarian reform.
4. Carrying out pilots and capacity building to develop new streamlined approaches, processes
and regulations for countrywide participatory mapping and agrarian reform implementation.
5. Carrying out policy dialogue to promote land and geospatial system integration in Indonesia.
6 of 17 
LN 8897-ID
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
establish and thereafter maintain, throughout the duration of the Project, the Project
Coordination Committee -
co-chaired by ATR/BPN and Geospatial Information
Agency - comprising officials from inter alia: BAPPENAS, Coordinating Ministry of
Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Environment and Forestry,
Ministry of Public Works and Housing, Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources
Ministry of Home Affairs and Ministry of Village, Development of Disadvantaged
Regions and Transmigration, which shall be responsible for facilitating inter-agency
coordination and cooperation in executing Project activities;
(b) 
establish in ATR/BPN and thereafter maintain, throughout the duration of the Project,
the Project Management Unit -
comprising specialists in inter alia: project
management, financial management, procurement, contract management, monitoring
and evaluation, survey and mapping, land registration, information and communication
technology, 
capacity development, outreach and communications as well as
community development, indigenous peoples and gender - which shall be responsible
for overall management, and fiduciary, reporting and monitoring activities of the
Project and implementation of the Parts 1 and 3 of the Project (in coordination as
needed with MoEF);
(c) 
establish in ATR/ BPN and thereafter maintain, throughout the duration of the Project,
Provincial Implementation and Monitoring Offices (PIM Offices) in each of the Project
Provinces, which shall be responsible for the Project implementation in Project
Regencies; and
(d) 
establish and thereafter maintain, throughout the duration of the Project, the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) in the Geospatial Information Agency (BIG), which shall
be responsible for implementation of the Part 2 of the Project.
2. 
Once established, the Borrower shall provide, or cause to be provided, as the case may be, each
of the Project Coordination Committee, the Project Management Unit, PIM Offices and the
Project Implementation Unit, at all times with adequate funds (allocated in the DIPA budget)
and other resources, mandate/functions, and with qualified and experienced personnel in
adequate numbers, as shall be necessary to accomplish the Project objective as further detailed
in the Project Operations Manual.
7 of 17 
LN 8897-ID
3. 
Without limitation to the provision of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Section LA, the Borrower
shall recruit and retain such consultants as may be needed to support the functions of the entities
referred to in these paragraphs, all with composition and terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank and the Borrower as further detailed in the Project Operations Manual.
B. 
Project Operations Manual
1 .
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
prepare a draft project operations manual, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank, containing detailed arrangements and procedures for implementation of the
Project including inter alia: (i) implementation arrangements including delineation of
role and responsibility of various ministries, entities, institutions and agencies involved
in Project implementation and their coordination; (ii) the procurement procedures and
standard procurement documentation; (iii) disbursement arrangements, financial
management procedures and audit procedures; (iv) annual work plan and budget
preparation and review procedures; (v) the Project performance indicators and
monitoring and evaluation arrangements; (vi) arrangement and procedures for
environment and social safeguard management including social monitoring and
vulnerability mapping; (vii) public awareness and communication arrangements; (viii)
administrative boundaries of the Target Areas; and (ix) such other administrative,
financial, technical and organizational arrangements and procedures as shall be
required for the Project;
(b) 
(i) furnish to - and exchange views with - the Bank on such manual promptly upon its
preparation; and (ii) thereafter adopt such manual as shall have been approved by the
Bank (Project Operations Manual).
(c) 
ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with the Project Operations
Manual;
(d) 
not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provisions of the Project Operations
Manual without the prior written agreement of the Bank; and
(e) 
with the prior written agreement of the Bank, update the Project Operations Manual,
as necessary, at all times ensuring compliance thereof with the terms of this Agreement.
2. 
In the event of any conflict between the provisions of: (a) the Project Operations Manual; and
(b) those of this Agreement, the latter shall prevail.
C. 
Annual Work Plans and Budgets
1 .
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than September 30 of each year
during the implementation of the Project (beginning in the Fiscal Year 2018), the Project's
consolidated annual work plan and budget for the following calendar year containing inter alia:
(i) all activities proposed to be implemented under the Project during the following Fiscal Year;
(ii) a proposed financing plan for expenditures required for such activities, setting forth the
proposed amounts and sources of financing therefor - including the portion of the Counterpart
Funds to be made available in that year - and disbursement schedule; and (iii) the training plan
for such period.
8 of 17 
LN 8897-ID
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that in preparing any training plan proposed for inclusion in an
annual work plan and budget it shall identify in the training plan: (i) the objective and content
of the training envisaged; (ii) the selection method of the institutions or individuals conducting
such training, and said institutions if already known; (iii) the expected duration and an estimate
of the cost of said training; and (iv) the selection method of the personnel who will attend the
training, and number and names of such personnel if already known.
3. 
The Borrower shall: (a) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the
Borrower on each such proposed annual work plan and budget; (b) taking into account the
Bank's comments, finalize the plan and furnish it to Bank for its approval not later than
November 30 in each year - beginning in the Fiscal Year 2018; (c) adopt the plan as shall have
been approved by the Bank (Annual Work Plan and Budget) and thereafter ensure that the
Project is carried out in accordance with each of such Annual Work Plan and Budget, in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank.
4. 
The Borrower shall not amend, suspend, abrogate or waive said Annual Work Plan and Budget
or any of its provisions without the prior written agreement of the Bank.
D. 
Safeguards
1 .
The Borrower, through ATR/BPN, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance
with the provisions of the Safeguards Instruments.
2. 
For the purposes of implementing Part 1 of the Project at specific sites and prior to the
implementation thereof, the Borrower - through ATR/BPN - shall ensure that for each activity
under the Project for which the Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF)
provides for the preparation of a site-specific Environmental and Social Management Plan
(ESMP):
(a) 
such ESMP is: (i) prepared and disclosed in accordance with the ESMF; (ii) consulted
upon adequately with people affected by the Project as per the ESMF, and submitted
to the Bank for review and approval; and (iii) thereafter adopted, prior to
implementation of the activity; and
(b) 
take all measures to implement the approved ESMP in a manner and timeframe
satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
Wherever required pursuant to the terms of the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework,
Resettlement Policy Framework (or Process Framework), the Borrower, through Designated
Custodians of State Lands, shall:
(a) 
proceed to have the Indigenous Peoples Plan or Resettlement Action Plan, as
appropriate, prepared and consulted upon adequately with, as applicable, pertinent
Indigenous Peoples or Project Affected Persons, all in form and substance satisfactory
to the Bank;
(b) 
submit any of such plans to the Bank for review and approval and, after their approval,
ensure that such plans are adopted and publicly disclosed; and
9 of 17 
LN 8897-ID
(c) 
take all measures to implement the corresponding approved Indigenous Peoples Plan
or the Resettlement Action Plan in a manner and timeframe satisfactory to the Bank.
4. 
The Borrower, through ATR/BPN, shall ensure that all studies and technical assistance to be
supported under the Project are carried out under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
and that such terms of reference are consistent with, and pay due attention to, the Bank's
Safeguards Policies.
5. 
The Borrower, through ATR/BPN, shall ensure that each applicable contract for a set of
activities under the Project includes the obligation of the relevant contractor to implement the
Safeguards Instruments.
6. 
The Borrower, through ATR/BPN, shall maintain, throughout Project implementation, and
publicize the availability of a grievance redress mechanism, in form and substance satisfactory
to the Bank, to hear and determine fairly and in good faith all complaints raised in relation to
the Project, and take all measures necessary to implement the determinations made by such
mechanism in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
7. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section II. 1 of this Schedule 2, the Borrower, through
ATR/BPN, shall take all measures necessary on its part to regularly collect, compile, and
submit to the Bank, as part of the Project Reports, information on the status of compliance with
the Safeguards Instruments, giving details of:
(a) 
measures taken in furtherance of the Safeguards Instruments;
(b) 
conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the smooth
implementation of the Safeguards Instruments; and
(c) 
remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such conditions.
8. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower shall ensure, and cause to
ensure, that none of the provisions of the Safeguard Instruments are abrogated, amended,
repealed, suspended or waived. In case of any inconsistencies between the provisions of any
of the Safeguard Instruments and the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this
Agreement shall prevail.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
1 .
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than forty-five (45) days
after the end of each calendar year, covering the calendar year.
2. 
No later than November 30, 2021, the Borrower shall, in conjunction with the Bank, carry out
a mid-term review of the Project (the "Mid-term Review"), covering the progress achieved in
the implementation of the Project. To this end, the Borrower shall prepare - under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank - and furnish to the Bank not less than three (3) months prior
to the beginning of the Mid-term Review, a report integrating the results of the Project's
monitoring and evaluation activities, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project
10 of 17 
LN 8897-ID
during the period preceding the date of such report, and setting out the measures recommended
to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objective of the
Project during the period following such date. Following the Mid-term Review, the Borrower
shall act promptly and diligently in order to take, or cause to be taken, measures recommended
to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objective as well
as any corrective action deemed necessary by the Bank to remedy any shortcoming noted in
the carrying out of the Project in furtherance of the objective of the Project.
Section III. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in
accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to finance Eligible Expenditures in the amount allocated
and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category of the following table:
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, Incremental Operating 
200,000,000 
100%
Costs, Training, non-consulting services,
and consulting services for the Project,
other than for Part 1.6 of the Project
TOTAL AMOUNT 
200,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made for payments
made prior to the Signature Date.
2. 
The Closing Date is October 31, 2023.
11 of 17 
, 
LN 8897-ID
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the total
principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date ("Installment Share").
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
01 August 2025 
7.25 
01 February 2026 
7.43%
01 August 2026 
7.62%
01 February 2027 
7.81 
01 August 2027 
8.00%
01 February 2028 
8.20%
01 August 2028 
8.41 
01 February 2029 
8.62 
01 August 2029 
8.83 
01 February 2030 
9.05%
01 August 2030 
9.28 
01 February 2031 
9.50%
12 of 17 
LN 8897-ID
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Annual Work Plan and Budget" means each of the consolidated annual work plans and
budgets for the Project to be prepared or updated on an annual basis as provided for in Section
I.C.3(c) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and, "Annual Work Plans and Budgets" means,
collectively, all such plans.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption in
Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and
revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
3. 
"Bank's Safeguards Policies" means the operational policies and procedures for financing of
development projects by the Bank at the date of this Agreement and relating to Environmental
Assessment, Natural Habitats, Pest Management, Indigenous Peoples, Physical Cultural
Resources, Involuntary Resettlement, Forests, Safety of Dams, Projects on International
Waterways, and Projects in Disputed Areas, as published under http://policies.worldbank.org/
to the extent they are applicable to the Project.
4. 
"BAPPENAS" or "Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Nasional' mean the national
development planning agency of the Borrower, or any successor thereto.
5. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
6. 
"Chance Finds Procedures" means the procedures which need to be followed - as per
requirements of OP/BP 4.11 Physical Cultural Resources (one of the Bank's Safeguard
Policies) -
when objects, sites, structures, groups of structures, and natural features and
landscapes (that have archaeological, paleontological, historical, architectural, religious,
aesthetic, or other cultural significance) are encountered unexpectedly during project
implementation.
7. 
"Continuously Operating Reference Stations" and the acronym "CORS" means a network of
enabled GPS stations managed by ATR/BPN and/or BIG to augment the local accuracy of GPS
readings.
8. 
"Coordinating Ministry of Economic Affairs" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for
coordinating economic affairs or any successor thereto.
9. 
"Counterpart Funds" means an amount of funds required for the Project, estimated at USD
forty million equivalent, to be provided by the Borrower to fund the Project in parallel with the
Loan proceeds, through an allocation to the budget under each Annual Work Plan and Budget.
10. 
"Demarcation" means (a) in the context of enacted Forest Area boundaries, densification of
markers on the ground; (b) in all other cases, participatory delineation of indicative Forest Area
boundaries to be followed by other processes leading to their formal legal enactment.
13 of 17 
LN 8897-ID
11. 
"Designated Custodians of State Lands" means the Borrower's institutions such as ATR/BPN
(in case of non-Forest Area), MoEF (in case of Forest Area) or the MoPWH (in case of river
banks).
12. 
"DIPA" means daftar isian pelaksanaan anggaran, a government budget document setting
forth the budget activity list for a Fiscal Year.
13. 
"Electronic Land Administration System" or "eLand" means the Borrower's electronic/digital
land registry and cadastre system and services.
14. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the environmental
and social safeguards management framework dated May 30, 2018 and adopted by the
Borrower and publicly disclosed on the Bank's external website (documents & reports) on May
30, 2018, such framework setting out the principles, rules, guidelines and procedures to assess
environmental and social impacts of the activities to be undertaken under the Project, and
measures and plans to reduce, avoid, mitigate and/or offset adverse social and environmental
impacts and enhance positive impacts of said activities, provisions for estimating and
budgeting the costs of such measures, and information on the agency or agencies responsible
for addressing project impacts, as said instrument may be amended from time to time with the
Bank's prior written agreement, such framework incorporating among others IPPF, RPF,
Process Framework, Physical and Cultural Resources Management Framework and Chance
Finds Procedures.
15. 
"Environmental and Social Management Plan" or "ESMP" means any plan, satisfactory to the
Bank, to be prepared by the Borrower, pursuant to the Environmental and Social Management
Framework, which details (a) the measures to be taken during the implementation and
operation of the Project to avoid, minimize, mitigate or offset adverse environmental and social
impacts, or to reduce them to acceptable levels; and (b) the actions needed to implement these
measures, as said instrument may be amended from time to time with the Bank's prior written
agreement.
16. 
"Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year commencing January 1 and ending December
31 of the same year.
17. 
"Forest Area" or "Kawasan Hutan" means area under forest estate including state forests
(kawasan hutan negara) and individually held titled forests (hutan hak) that are to be retained
as forests.
18. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing", dated July 14, 2017.
19. 
"Geospatial Information Agency" or "Badan Informasi Geospasial" or "BIG" means
Borrower's agency established and operating pursuant to the Presidential Regulation No. 94/
2011 and responsible for undertaking government's tasks in the field of geospatial information.
20. 
"GPS" means global positioning system.
14 of 17 
LN 8897-ID
21. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the reasonable incremental operating costs under the
Project, based on the Annual Work Plans and Budgets, incurred by the Borrower for purposes
of Project management, implementation and monitoring and evaluation, including office
supplies and consumables, utilities, bank charges, communications, information and
communication campaigns, mass media and printing services, vehicle rental, operation,
maintenance and insurance, office space rental, building and equipment maintenance, travel,
lodging and subsistence allowances, and salaries of contractual and temporary staff, but
excluding salary and salary supplements of staff of the Borrower's civil service.
22. 
"Indigenous Peoples" means those social groups in the Borrower's territory that have a distinct,
vulnerable, social and cultural identity, and that possess the following characteristics in
varying degrees: (a) self-identification as members of a distinct indigenous cultural group and
recognition of this identity by others; (b) collective attachment to geographically distinct
habitats or ancestral territories in the Project area and to the natural resources in these habitats
and territories; (c) customary cultural, economic, social, or political institutions that are
separate from those of the dominant society and culture; and (d) an indigenous language.
23. 
"Indigenous Peoples Plan" or "IPP" means each plan, satisfactory to the Bank, meeting the
requirements of the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework, that sets out inter alia the
principles, procedures, organizational arrangements - including MoEF role, as relevant - and
budget to: (a) involve Indigenous Peoples, through a process of free, prior and informed
consultation, in the design and implementation of each a set of activities in locations in which
such people reside or make their living; (b) ensure that Indigenous Peoples affected by the
Project receive culturally appropriate social and economic benefits; and (c) when potential
adverse effects on Indigenous Peoples are identified, those adverse effects are avoided,
minimized, mitigated, or compensated for, in each case in a manner acceptable to the Bank and
the Borrower, as said indigenous peoples plan may be revised from time to time with the prior
written agreement of the Bank; and "IPPs" means, collectively, all such IPP.
24. 
"Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework" or "IPPF" means the indigenous peoples planning
framework, incorporated in the ESMF, which sets out the principles, policies, measures and
organizational arrangements (including consultation, budget and disclosure and MoEF role),
designed to facilitate a process of free, prior and informed consultation involving Indigenous
Peoples in the design and implementation of the Project, and to ensure that such Indigenous
Peoples derive benefits from the Project which are socially, economically and culturally
appropriate, and gender and inter-generationally inclusive, , as such framework may be
amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
25. 
"National Institute of Aeronautics and Space in Indonesia" and the acronym "LAPAN" means
the Borrower's entity established and operating pursuant to Presidential Regulation 9/2015 and
responsible for undertaking government's tasks in the field of aerospace research, development
and application, and aeronautical management.
26. 
"National Spatial Data Infrastructure" and the acronym "NSDI" means the Borrower's
nationally mandated framework of spatial data that refers to Indonesian locations, as well as
the means of distributing and using that data effectively.
15 of 17 
LN 8897-ID
27. 
"Ministry of Agrarian Affairs and Spatial Planning/National Land Agency" and the acronym
"ATR/BPN" mean the Borrower's ministry responsible for land or any successor thereto.
28. 
"Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources" or "MEMR" means the Borrower's ministry
responsible for energy or any successor thereto.
29. 
"Ministry of Environment and Forestry" or "MoEF" means the Borrower's ministry
responsible for environment and forestry or any successor thereto.
30. 
"Ministry of Finance" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for finance or any successor
thereto.
31. 
"Ministry of Home Affairs" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for internal affairs or
any successor thereto.
32. 
"Ministry of Public Works and Housing" or "MoPWH" means the Borrower's ministry
responsible for public works or any successor thereto.
33. 
"Ministry of Village, Development of Disadvantaged Regions and Transmigration" means the
Borrower's ministry responsible for villages or any successor thereto.
34. 
"Physical and Cultural Resources Management Framework" means is a framework,
incorporated in the ESMF, to manage screening, identification, risk mitigation, conservation
and protection of identified physical cultural resources prior to the participatory mapping
activities of the project.
35. 
"Physical and Cultural Resources Management Plan" means the plan prepared in accordance
with the Physical and Cultural Resources Management Framework containing measures for
avoiding or mitigating any adverse impacts on physical cultural resources, provisions for
managing chance finds, any necessary measures for strengthening institutional capacity, and a
monitoring system to track the progress of these activities; and, "Physical and Cultural
Resources Management Plans" means more than one of such plans.
36. 
"Process Framework" or "PF" means a framework document, satisfactory to the Bank,
addressing how Project Affected Persons - designated as such by virtue of their involuntary
restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected areas on account of the Project 
may participate in the determination of the nature of the said restrictions, as well as the type of
measures necessary to mitigate adverse impacts caused by these restrictions, as said Process
Framework may be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
37. 
"Procurement Regulations" means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF Borrowers", dated July
2016, revised November 2017.
38. 
"Project Affected Person" means a person who, on account of the execution of the Project, has
experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by: (a) the
involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or
access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such
16 of 17 
LN 8897-ID
person must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally
designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such
person; and, "Project Affected Persons", means more than one Project Affected Person.
39. 
"Project Coordination Committee" means the inter-agency committee - referred to in Section
I.A. 1(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement -
established pursuant to Ministerial Decree No.
623/KEP-14.1/X/2018 of the Minister of Agrarian Affairs and Spatial Planning/National Land
Agency (and any successor thereto).
40. 
"Project Implementation Unit" means the unit referred to in Section I.A. 1(d) of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
41. 
"Project Management Unit" means the unit referred to in Section I.A.l(b) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
42. 
"Project Operations Manual" means the manual referred to in Section I.B. 1 (b)ii of Schedule 2
to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time in agreement with the Bank,
and such term includes any schedules to the Project Operations Manual.
43. 
"Project Provinces" means the following Provinces in which the Project will be Implemented:
Riau, Jambi, South Sumatra, East Kalimantan, Central Kalimantan, West Kalimantan and
South Kalimantan.
44. 
"Project Regencies" local administrative units (regencies or kabupaten) where Project
activities are carried out, all in Project Provinces (or any other such units acceptable to the
Bank).
45. 
"Province" means an administrative sub-division of the Borrower's territory at the first level
below the national level.
46. 
"Provincial Implementation and Monitoring Office" means any of the offices referred to in
Section I.A. 1(c) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
47. 
"PTSL" means ATR/BPN's systematic and complete land registration process, which through
inclusive fit-for-purpose approach, results in a comprehensive map of, inter alia, tenure rights,
land use and indicative Forest Area boundaries.
48. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" or "RAP" means a Borrower's resettlement action plan for
compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement assistance to Project Affected Persons, acceptable
to the Bank, to be prepared and implemented pursuant to the Resettlement Policy Framework,
as such plan may be amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank
and the Borrower.
49. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the resettlement policy framework
incorporated in the ESMF setting forth the measures and actions (including by MoEF) to be
taken during the implementation of the Project for the provision of compensation, rehabilitation
and resettlement assistance to Project Affected Persons, as such framework may be amended
from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank and the Borrower.
17 of 17 
LN 8897-ID
50. 
"Safeguards Instruments" means, collectively, the Environmental and Social Management
Framework, any Environmental and Social Management Plans, the Indigenous Peoples
Planning Framework, any Indigenous Peoples Plans, the Process Framework, the Resettlement
Policy Framework, any Resettlement Action Plan, the Physical and Cultural Resources
Management Framework, 
the Chance Finds Procedures and the Physical and Cultural
Resources Management Plans, and such term includes any annexes or schedules to such
instruments.
51. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank signed
this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the date of the Loan
Agreement" in the General Conditions.
52. 
"Target Area" means any area selected for Project implementation in Project Regencies (or
any other such areas acceptable to the Bank).
53. 
"Training" means the costs of training activities under the Project, based on the Annual Work
Plans and Budgets approved in advance by the Bank, and attributable to seminars, workshops,
and domestic and overseas training, along with travel and subsistence allowances for training
participants, services of trainers, rental of training facilities, preparation and reproduction of
training materials, 
and other activities directly related to course preparation 
and
implementation.
