OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8825-MX
Loan Agreement
(Strengthening Entrepreneurship in Productive Forest Landscapes Project)
between
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between UNITED MEXICAN
STATES duly represented by its Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (Secretaria de
Hacienda y Cridito Pzblico) ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank").
Whereas the Borrower has informed the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan (as set
forth in the table in Section III.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and for purposes of
supporting Part 1 of the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (the "Project")),
shall be used in conformity with the requirements of the Borrower's income, budgetary
and public debt laws and the terms of this Agreement.
Whereas, the Bank, acting as administrator of the BioCF plus-ISFL Trust Funds,
has agreed to make a grant to the Borrower in the amount of ten million Dollars
($10,000,000) for purposes of supporting Part 2 of the project as described in Schedule 1
of the BioCF plus-ISFL Trust Funds Grant Agreement, on the terms and conditions set
forth in the BioCF plus-ISFL Trust Funds Grant Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
Noting that the Borrower has informed the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan shall
be used in conformity with the requirements of the Borrower's income, budgetary
and public debt laws and the terms of this Agreement, but without limitation to the
provisions of Section 8.01 of the General Conditions, the Bank agrees to lend to
the Borrower the amount of fifty six million Dollars ($56,000,000), as such amount
may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion ("Loan"), to
assist the Borrower in financing the Project.
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. Unless the Borrower's Representative set forth
in Section 6.01 of this Agreement otherwise informs the Bank, the Borrower's
Representative for purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken
-2-
pursuant to this Section is NAFIN's Director of International Financial Institutions
(Director(a) de Organismos Financieros Internacionales) or any person or
persons whom such representative shall designate in writing.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may
apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure
Limit (as said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of
this Section), the Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of
one half of one percent (0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess
Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for
each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if any)
shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set
forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during
which the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit,
the product of: (A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the
ratio of all (or, if the Bank so determines, a portion) of the Loan
to the aggregate amount of all (or the equivalent portions) of the
loans made by the Bank to the Borrower and to other borrowers
guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an exposure
surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined from
time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the
Bank's financial exposure to the Borrower, which, if exceeded,
would subject the Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined
from time to time by the Bank.
-3-
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total
financial exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by
the Bank.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end,
and for the purposes of this Agreement, the Borrower, through the Comisidn
Nacional Forestal ("CONAFOR"), shall carry out Part 1 of the Project described
in Schedule 1 of this Agreement, all in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that any of
the parties to the Contrato de Mandato shall have failed to perform any of their
obligations under the Contrato de Mandato.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following, namely, that
the Contrato de Mandato has been duly executed by the parties thereto.
5.02. 
As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 5.01, there shall be
furnished to the Bank the following opinions:
(a) 
the Borrower, through SHCP and CONAFOR, shall issue two separate
legal opinions -one for SHCP and one for CONAFOR- satisfactory to the
Bank, by counsel acceptable to the Bank, indicating that the Contrato de
Mandato has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and
delivered on behalf of, the Borrower, and is legally binding upon the
Borrower in accordance with the Contrato de Mandato's terms; and
(b) 
NAFIN has issued a legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank, by NAFIN's
counsel satisfactory to the Bank, indicating that the Contrato de Mandato
has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on
behalf of, NAFIN, and is legally binding upon NAFIN in accordance with
the Contrato de Mandato's terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE VI- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower's
Representative is the Titular de la Unidad de Crdito Ptiblico of SHCP. The
-4-
authorized representative to make requests for Conversions or for an 1BRD Hedge
(as defined in the Hedging Guidelines) on behalf of the Borrower shall be: (a) the
Titular de la Unidad de Crdito PrNblico of SHCP or any person or persons whom
he or she shall designate in writing for this particular purpose; or (b) NAFIN's
Director(a) de Organismos Financieros Internacionales de NAFIN.
6.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions, as applicable:
the Borrower's address is:
Secretaria de Hacienda y Cr6dito PiTblico
Unidad de Asuntos Internacionales de Hacienda
Insurgentes Sur 1971, torre III, piso 3, Plaza Inn
Colonia Guadalupe Inn
01020 M6xico City; and
the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
E-mail:
uaih_shcp@hacienda.gob.mx
-5-
6.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions, as applicable:
the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
E-mail::
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
jkem@worldbank.org
64145(MCI)
-6-
AGREED in Mexico City as of the Signature Date.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By
Abhrz 
Representative
Name: Juan Pablo Newn Aguilar
Title: Titular de la Unidad de Cridito Pffblico
Date: Abril 13, 2018
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: _UTV 
O
Title: 
[PUAw-
Date: [4O 
2
-7-
SCHEDULE1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to strengthen sustainable forest management and
increase economic opportunities for forest-dependent people and enterprises in Selected
Forest Landscapes in Mexico.
The Project consists of the following Part 1, and Part 2 as described in Schedule 1
of the BioCF plus-ISFL Trust Funds Grant Agreement:
Part 1. Strengthenin2 Forest Mana2ement, Conservation and Business Development
Provision of Direct Support to forest-dependent people and enterprises (Eligible
Beneficiaries) to help them combine sustainable forest management with socio-economic
development and generate additional income opportunities for the Eligible Beneficiaries,
making sustainable management more economically attractive, through the following
activities:
1. 
Forest Entrepreneurship and Social Capital
The carrying out of activities to promote, strengthen, and consolidate the Eligible
Beneficiaries' relevant institutions and local development processes for the collective and
sustainable management of forest resources including, inter alia: (a) the carrying out of
participatory rural appraisals; (b) the elaboration of land-use zoning plans ; (c) the
development and strengthening of community statutes to regulate the use of collective
forest resources; (d) the carrying out of community-to-community seminars and other
knowledge sharing activities among Eligible Beneficiaries at different levels of
organization; (e) the carrying out of activities for Eligible Beneficiaries and staff of
community forestry enterprises to strengthen their capacity on technical aspects of forest
management, silviculture, environmental sustainability, business administration, and
transformation and marketing of forest products and services, and (f) the provision of
support for the adoption of technologies.
2. Sustainable Management of Forest Landscapes
The carrying out of activities to support Eligible Beneficiaries in strengthening their
capacities to manage productive forests sustainably including, inter alia: (a) analyses to
prepare environmental impact assessments and forest management plans to obtain the
Borrower's permits for extraction of timber and non-timber forest products, including
technical documentation for timber harvesting; (b) forest management activities for the
improvement and maintenance of the productive potential of natural forest; (c) activities to
support new or established commercial plantations; (d) activities to restore ecosystems in
degraded areas including, inter alia, reforestation, soil conservation, agroforestry, and
-8-
forest fire prevention activities; (e) support for forest management certification, including
technical audits of forest management plans; and (f) the provision of PES to Eligible
Beneficiaries in exchange for the provision of environmental services in PES Areas, which
services include, inter alia: (i) services generated by forest ecosystems in the provision of
water and the prevention of disasters; (ii) services generated by forest ecosystems in the
conservation of biodiversity; and (iii) services generated by forest ecosystems in the
capture of carbon at the regional level and at local level with stakeholders.
3. 
Transformation and Access to Markets
The carrying out of activities to promote and strengthen forest value chains established by
community forest enterprises to add value to their timber and non-timber forest products,
expand access to markets, and improve competitiveness including, inter alia: (a) legal
registration of community forest enterprises and inter-community value chains; (b)
analyses to prepare strategic business plans, process engineering, and investment feasibility
assessments; and (c) strengthening forestry enterprises and their integration into value
chains through the purchase of necessary processing equipment, capacity building
activities, activities to improve marketing of timber and non-timber forest products and
services, and chain of custody certification.
-9-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements.
1. 
The Borrower, through CONAFOR, shall:
(a) 
(i) carry out the Project in accordance with a manual, acceptable to the
Bank (Project Operational Manual or POM); and (ii) not amend, abrogate
or waive the POM or any of its provisions without the Bank's prior written
consent. In case of conflict between the provisions of the POM and the
provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall
prevail;
(b) 
assign responsibility for the management, implementation, monitoring and
reporting of the Project among its units, all staffed with personnel in
adequate numbers, with functions and responsibilities as described in the
POM;
(c) 
maintain, throughout Project implementation, a steering committee
(Steering 
Committee) 
and an operations 
committee 
(Operations
Committee), all with composition, functions and responsibilities as
described in the POM; and
(d) 
ensure, throughout Project implementation, the coordination with other
Borrower's agencies participating in the technical implementation of the
Project (including SAGARPA, SEMARNAT and INECC) pursuant to
adequate arrangements, as described in the POM.
B. 
Contrato de Mandato.
1. 
For purposes of carrying out Part 1 of the Project, the Borrower, through SHCP,
shall enter into a contract (Contrato de Mandato) with CONAFOR (in its capacity
as the Project implementing entity) and NAFIN, satisfactory to the Bank, whereby:
(a) 
CONAFOR agrees to carry out Part 1 of the Project in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement including compliance with the POM and the
Anti-Corruption Guidelines;
(b) 
NAFIN agrees to act as financial agent of the Borrower with respect to the
Loan, meaning that, inter alia, NAFIN agrees to represent the Borrower
vis-ai-vis the Bank for purposes of submitting Loan withdrawal
-10-
applications to the Bank in form and substance sufficient to justify
disbursements by the Bank to the Borrower, referred to in the additional
instructions cited in Section 2.01 (b) of the General Conditions, all of this
in compliance with the provisions of this Agreement, and to abide by the
Anti-Corruption Guidelines;
(c) 
the Borrower, through SHCP, shall have the right to, in case of fraud or
corruption (as defined in the Anti-Corruption Guidelines), provide for the
early termination of the Contrato de Mandato or temporarily suspend its
effects, or, if applicable, require the Restitution of funds transferred to
NAFIN under the Contrato de Mandato; and
(d) 
CONAFOR agrees to cooperate fully with NAFIN to ensure that NAFIN
and CONAFOR are able to comply with all their obligations referred to in
this Agreement.
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the
Contrato de Mandato in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
3. 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower, through SHCP and
CONAFOR shall, and shall cause NAFIN to, not amend, terminate, abrogate,
waive or fail to enforce any provision of the Contrato de Mandato. In case of any
conflict between the provisions of the Contrato de Mandato and those of this
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
C. 
Activities Agreements.
1. 
For purposes of implementing the activities under Part 1 of the Project, and upon
the selection and approval of any said activity pursuant to the eligibility criteria
and procedures established in the CONAFOR Rules, the Borrower, through
CONAFOR, shall, as instructing party (mandante) of the Forest Fund, provide a
Direct Support to the Eligible Beneficiary pursuant to an agreement (the Activities
Agreement) to be entered into between CONAFOR and the Eligible Beneficiary,
under terms and conditions substantially similar to those of the model form
agreement(s) contained 
in the POM, which shall include, inter alia, their
respective responsibilities in the carrying out and financing of the relevant
approved activities.
2. 
The Borrower, through CONAFOR, shall: (a) exercise its rights and carry out its
obligations under each Activities Agreement in such a manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan;
and (b) not assign, amend, suspend, waive, terminate of fail to enforce any
Activities Agreement or any provision thereof in such a manner so as to affect
-11-
materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the implementation of the
Project.
D. 
Safeguards.
1. 
The Borrower, through CONAFOR, shall carry out the Project in accordance with
the EMF, the IPPF and the PF. Except as otherwise agreed by the Bank, the
Borrower, through CONAFOR, shall not amend, abrogate, waive, or fail to enforce
the EMF, the PF and/or the IPPF or any of their provisions.
2. 
Without limitation to the provisions set forth in paragraph 1 above, and for
purposes of implementing the activities under Part 1 of the Project, the Borrower,
through CONAFOR, 
shall cause each Eligible Beneficiary, pursuant to the
pertinent Activities Agreement, to: (a) implement the pertinent activity in
accordance with the EMF and the PF; (b) adopt the procedures detailed in said
EMF and PF for environmental screening, evaluation, implementation and
monitoring of the selected activity, including the procedures for the preparation of
site-specific environmental management plans and/or PF related action plan, when
applicable; and (c) implement and/or cause to be implemented the pertinent site-
specific environmental management plan and/or PF related action plan in
accordance with its terms and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
Section H. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
The Borrower, through CONAFOR, shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report
not later than sixty (60) days after the end of each calendar semester, covering the
calendar semester.
Section III. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General.
1. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and
in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the
Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible
Expenditures; (b) pay: (i) the Front-end Fee; and (ii) each Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar premium; in the amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the
percentage set forth against each Category of the table set forth below.
3. 
Without limitations to paragraph 1 above, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date and pay
to itself the Front-end Fee payable pursuant to Section 3.01 of the General
Conditions. The remaining proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed in Dollars
unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and the Bank and so reflected in
the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter. Consistently with Section
-12-
2.05 of the General Conditions, the Borrower may use an amount equivalent to
the amount in Dollars provided under this Agreement to finance Eligible
Expenditures.
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Direct Supports under 
55,860,000 
100%
Part 1 of the Project
(2) Front-end Fee 
140,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(3) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest 
Rate 
Collar 
Section 4.05 (c) of the
premium 
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
56,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $11,200,000 may be made for payments made
prior to this date but on or after the date twelve (12) months prior to the Signature
Date, for Eligible Expenditures, under Category (1).
2. 
The Closing Date is March 31, 2023.
-13-
SCHEDULE 3
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount in the Loan in full on September 15,
2032.
-14-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Activities Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in Section I.C. 1
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2. 
"AFOLU" means Agriculture, Forestry, and Other Land Use.
3. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
4. 
"BioCF plus-ISFL Trust Funds" means BioCFplus Initiative for Sustainable
Forest Landscapes-TF No. 072967 and BioCFplus Initiative for Sustainable Forest
Landscapes-TF No. 072503.
5. 
"BioCF plus-ISFL Trust Funds Grant Agreement" means the agreement for the
financing of Part 2 of the Project as described in its Schedule 1, among the
Borrower, through SHCP and CONAFOR (in its capacity as the Project
implementing entity), NAFIN (in its capacity as the Borrower's financial agent),
and the Bank, the latter acting not in its individual capacity but solely in its capacity
as administrator of the BioCF plus-ISFL Trust Funds, dated as of the BioCF
plus-ISFL Trust Fund Grant Agreement, as such grant agreement may be
amended from time to time. It includes all appendices, schedules and agreements
supplemental to the BioCFplus-ISFL Trust Fund Grant Agreement.
6. 
"Contrato de Mandato" means the agreement between the Borrower (through
SHCP and CONAFOR (in its capacity as the Project implementing entity) and
NAFIN referred to in Section I.B.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. "Category"
means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
7. 
"Comisidn Nacional Forestal" or "CONAFOR" means the Borrower's National
Forestry Commission created by Borrower's Presidential Decree published in its
Official Gazette on April 4, 2001, or any successor thereto.
8. 
"CONAFOR Rules" means a set of rules, guidelines and procedures issued by the
Borrower, through SEMARNAT and CONAFOR, (Reglas de Operaci6n) and
published annually in the official Gazette for the implementation of the activities
under Part 1 of the Project, as the same may be amended from time to time.
-15-
9. 
"Direct Support" means a non-reimbursable contribution in an amount defined
pursuant to CONAFOR Rules, to any given Eligible Beneficiary to assist in the
financing of PES, goods, works, non-consulting services and consulting services
incurred by an Eligible Beneficiary, for the carrying out of a selected activity under
Part 1 of the Project, collectively referred to as "Direct Supports".
10. 
"Eligible Beneficiary" means any of the following: (a) ejidos/ejidatarios; (b)
comunidades/comuneros (agrarian communities); (c) small landholders; (d)
avecindados and other rural forest dwellers without land tenure rights; (e) producer
associations/organizations; (f) community enterprises; (g) forest enterprises; and
(h) any other potential beneficiary as agreed between the Borrower and the Bank;
all listed and defined in the POM; collectively referred to as " Eligible
Beneficiaries".
11. 
"EMF" means Environmental Management Framework, the framework prepared
by CONAFOR, acceptable to the Bank, published on CONAFOR's and on the
Bank's external website on November 24, 2017, setting forth the principles,
guidelines, rules and procedures to assess the potential environmental, social,
health and safety impacts of Project activities, and mitigation, monitoring and
institutional measures to be taken to offset or eliminate any such negative impacts,
or reduce them to acceptable levels, including: (a) measures for chance findings of
physical cultural property; (b) guidelines for the identification of existing
environmental conditions and potential direct and indirect environmental impacts
resulting from the carrying out of the Project activities (including a list of type of
investments not eligible for financing under the Project); (c) guidelines for the
carrying out of environmental assessments and the preparation and implementation
of environmental management plans, when applicable; (d) a pest management
plan; and (e) measures for enhancing each identified positive impact; as said
framework may be amended from time to time with the Bank's prior written
approval.
12. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project
Financing", dated July 14, 2017.
13. 
"Forest Fund" means Fondo Forestal Mexicano, a fund established as a budgetary
vehicle pursuant to the Contrato de Mandato dated July 10, 2003 as modified of
July 9, 2013.
14. 
"INECC" means the Borrower's National Institute of Ecology and Climate
Change.
15. 
"IPPF" means Indigenous People Planning Framework, the framework prepared
by CONAFOR, acceptable to the Bank, and published on CONAFORs website
and Bank's external website on November 22, 2017 and republished on December
-16-
19, 2017, detailing measures to mitigate any adverse impact on indigenous peoples
as a result of any activity carried out under the Project and to ensure that they
benefit from said Parts of the Project, including procedures for the preparation and
implementation of the pertinent indigenous peoples development plan(s).
16. 
"NAFIN" means Nacional Financiera, S.N.C., I.B.D., a Mexican development
bank serving as the Borrower's financial agent for purposes of the Loan, or any
successor thereto.
17. 
"Operations Committee" means the committee referred to in Section I.A. 1(c) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and described in the POM.
18. 
"PES" means payment for environmental services.
19. 
"PES Area" means any area within the Selected Forest Landscapes given its
environmental, hydrological or biodiversity value which meets the criteria set forth
in the POM for the provision of PES.
20. 
"PF" means Process Framework, the framework prepared by CONAFOR,
acceptable to the Bank and published on CONAFOR's website and Bank's
external website on November 22, 2017, describing, inter alia, the participatory
process by which the selected activities under Part I of the Project will be prepared
and implemented, and a description of the arrangements for implementing and
monitoring the process, including mitigation measures of potential negative
impacts on the livelihoods of indigenous peoples and other local communities as a
result of the carrying out of said activities, including guidelines for the preparation
and implementation of site-specific PF action plans, when applicable.
21. 
"Procurement Regulations" means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the 'World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF
Borrowers', dated July 2016, revised November 2017.
22. 
"Project Operational Manual" or "POM" means the manual (including CONAFOR
Rules as applicable to this Project) referred to in Section I.A. 1 (a)(i) of Schedule 2
to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior
written consent of the Bank.
23. 
"Restitution" means the refund to the Borrower of the portion of the equivalent
amount of the Loan with respect to which fraud and corruption as defined in the
Anti-Corruption Guidelines has occurred.
24. 
"SAGARPA" means Secretaria de Agricultura, Ganaderia, Desarrollo Rural,
Pesca y Alimentaci6n, the Borrower's Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock, Rural
Development, Fisheries and Food, or any successor thereto.
-17-
25. 
"Selected Forest Landscapes" means any area in the following Borrower's states:
Campeche, Chiapas, Chihuahua, Coahuila, Durango, Estado de M6xico, Guerrero,
Hidalgo, Jalisco, Michoacdn, Nayarit, Nuevo Le6n, Oaxaca, Puebla, Quintana
Roo, San Luis Potosi, Tamaulipas, T1axcala and Veracruz, or any other area as
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, and listed in the POM.
26. 
"SEMARNAT" means Secretaria de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales, the
Borrower's Secretariat for Environment and Natural Resources, or any successor
thereto.
27. 
"SHCP" means Secretaria de Hacienda y Cridito P6blico, the Borrower's
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, or any successor thereto.
28. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the
date of the Loan Agreement" in the General Conditions.
29. 
"Steering Committee" means the committee referred to in Section I.A.1(c) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and described in the POM.
