OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8772-ME
Loan Agreement
(Revenue Administration Reform Project)
between
MONTENEGRO
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated ___L__c 
_ _,2018
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
\A0o 
1 
, 2018, between MONTENEGRO
("Borrower") 
and INTERNATIONAL (ANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fourteen million Euro (EUR
14,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided,
that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the
General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General
Conditions.
-2-
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the MTA in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
-3-
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The PMU has been established within the MTA with staff, resources,
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank;
(b) 
The Project Steering Committee has been established by the Borrower
with terms of reference defining the functions and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Bank; and
(c) 
The Revenue Modernization Advisory Board has been established by the
Borrower 
with terms of reference 
defining 
the functions 
and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank.
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Stanka Dragojevica 2
81000 Podgorica
Montenegro
Facsimile:
382 20 224 450
-4-
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at 
Oc\ 
C 
-
, 
Cas 
of the day and year
first above written.
MONTENEGRO
By
Authorized 
epresentative
Name: 
~ 
.
'~C
Title: 
izvT{~o
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION 
D DEVELOP 
ENT
By
Authorized Represen 
i
Name: ~r
Title: 
LoOj4!,s 
Ty 
-3-'/ 
>CAT --- i
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve effectiveness of operational functions of
Montenegro's tax administration and to reduce the compliance costs for corporate taxpayers.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part I: Institutional Development
1. 
Institutional development. 
Support the MTA to, inter alia: (i) strengthen its
strategic focus, planning and operational capacity; (ii) improve its staff
management process and training program; (iii) enhance its analytical processes;
(iv) improve its internal control and integrity functions; (v) assess Borrower's tax
administration legal framework; and (vi) improve its existing appeal process.
2. 
Change management. Support the MTA to strengthen its capacity to manage the
change process.
3. 
Project management. Support the establishment of a PMU within the MTA for
project management, implementation, fiduciary functions, and monitoring.
Part II: Business Processes
1. 
Modernize MTA's operational functions. 
Support the MTA in the
modernization of MTA's operational functions through, inter alia, improving the:
(i) taxpayers' registration processing; (ii) tax return and payment processing; (iii)
taxation enforcement and compliance; (iv) tax audit; and (v) tax-related anti-fraud
and criminal investigations.
2. 
Data cleansing and information technology (IT) infrastructure. Support the MTA
to, inter alia: (i) cleanse and rationalize the data of its IT system through the provision
of technical assistance; and (ii) enhance its IT infrastructure (including the enterprise
architecture, data center, and security and disaster recovery plans) through the
provision of equipment (including hardware and software) and technical assistance.
3. 
IRMS. Support the procurement and implementation of the IRMS though, inter
alia: (i) developing MTA's specifications for the IRMS; and (ii) procuring,
localizing and implementing a commercial IRMS;
-6-
Part III: Taxpayer Services
Support the MTA to, inter alia: (i) modernize taxpayer services; (ii) increase understanding
of revenue laws, procedures, and rights and obligations of taxpayers; and (iii) strengthen
external and internal communications.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
The Borrower shall operate and maintain throughout the implementation of the
Project, the PMU, the Project Steering Committee, the Revenue Modernization
Advisory Board, the PIC, the Working Groups and the TSU, respectively, with
staff, resources as needed, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank
and in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Operational Manual.
B. 
Operational Manual
1. 
The Borrower, through the MTA, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
provisions of a the Operational Manual, which shall include, inter alia: (a) a
detailed description of Project activities and institutional arrangements for the
Project; (b) the Project administrative, accounting, auditing, reporting, financial
(including cash flow aspects in relation thereto), procurement and disbursement
procedures; (c) the monitoring indicators for the Project; and (d) the institutional
and administrative mechanisms established to ensure inter-agency coordination for
Project implementation, including the functions, responsibilities and staffing
requirements under the Project.
2. 
Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower
shall not abrogate, amend, suspend, waive or otherwise fail to enforce the
Operational Manual or any provision thereof.
3. 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and this
Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report
-8-
shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than one month after the end of the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45)
days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for
the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. 
Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than six months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods and non-consulting services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I
of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
-9-
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods and non-consulting services for those contracts specified
in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the
additional provisions set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (b) Shopping; and
(c) Direct Contracting.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; 
(d) 
Selection based on Consultants'
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Procedures set
forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of
Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"Disbursement Guidelines for Investment Project Financing" dated February
2017", as revised from time to time by the Bank) and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions, to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
- 10-
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Category 
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in EUR) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, 
non-consulting
services, 
consultants'
services, 
Operating 
13,965,000 
100%
Costs 
and 
Training
under the Project
Amount payable pursuant to
(2) Front-end Fee 
35,000 
Section 2.03 of this Agreement
in accordance with Section 2.07
(b) of the General Conditions
(3) Interest Rate Cap or 
Amount 
due 
pursuant 
to
Interest 
Rate 
Collar 
0 
Section 
2.08(c) 
of 
this
premium 
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
14,000,000
3. 
For purposes of this table:
(a) 
the term "Operating Costs" means the reasonable incremental expenses
incurred by the Project Steering Committee, the Project Implementation
Committee, the PMU, the TSU, and the Working Groups on account of
Project implementation, including the costs of translation, communication,
printing and supplies, local travel costs and field trip expenses, and fees
paid to the consultant hired for purposes of Project coordination, other than
civil servants' salaries; and
(b) 
the term "Training" means reasonable expenditures (other than those for
consultants' services), as approved by the Bank, incurred for the carrying out
of training activities under the Project, including, inter alia, reasonable costs
of travel and per diem of trainers and trainees, cost of study tours, cost of
workshops, rental of training facilities and equipment, and training materials.
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed two hundred thousand Euro
(EUR 200,000) may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after
June 6, 2017 for Eligible Expenditures.
2. 
The Closing Date is March 31, 2023.
-ll-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Principal Payment DateIntlmtShr
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each February 15 and August 15
Beginning August 15, 2022 
2.5%
through February 15, 2042 
1
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
- 12 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
- 13 
SCHEDULE 4
Additional Procedures for National Competitive Bidding
(i) 
Registration: (a) bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms; (b) where
registration is required, bidders: (i) shall be allowed a reasonable time to complete
the registration process; and (ii) shall not be denied registration for reasons
unrelated to their capability and resources to successfully perform the contract,
which shall be verified through post-qualification.
(ii) 
Eligibility: foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding, and no preference
of any kind shall be given to national bidders.
(iii) 
Procedures: "Open procedures" shall be followed in all cases. Invitations to bid
shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national daily newspaper,
allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days for the preparation and submission of bids.
(iv) 
Pre-qualification: when pre-qualification shall be required for large or complex
works, invitations to pre-qualify for bidding shall be advertised in at least one (1)
widely circulated national daily newspaper a minimum of thirty (30) days prior to
the deadline for the submission of pre-qualification applications. Minimum
experience, technical and financial requirements shall be explicitly stated in the
pre-qualification documents.
(v) 
Participation 
by 
government-owned 
enterprises: 
government-owned
enterprises in Montenegro shall be eligible to participate in bidding only if they
can establish that they are legally and financially autonomous, operate under
commercial law and are not a dependent agency of the government. Such
enterprises shall be subject to the same bid and performance security requirements
as other bidders.
(vi) 
Bidding documents: procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard bidding
documents for the procurement of works which shall contain draft contract and
conditions of contract, satisfactory to the Bank.
(vii) 
Submission of bids: bidders may, at their option, deliver bids either in person, by
courier service, or by mail at any time prior to the deadline set for the submission
of bids.
(viii) 
Bid opening and bid evaluation: bids shall be opened in public and, if two
envelopes are submitted for technical and price components, both shall be opened
simultaneously. The time for the bid opening shall be the same as for the deadline
for receipt of bids or immediately thereafter, and shall be announced, together with
the place for bid opening, in the solicitation documents. Evaluation of bids shall
be made in strict adherence to the monetarily quantifiable criteria declared in the
- 14 
bidding documents. Extension of bid validity shall be allowed once only for not
more than thirty (30) days. No further extensions should be requested without the
prior approval of the Bank. Contracts shall be awarded to qualified bidders having
submitted the lowest evaluated substantially responsive bid. Negotiations shall not
be allowed with the lowest evaluated bidder or any other bidder.
(ix) 
Price adjustment: civil works contracts of long duration (e.g. more than eighteen
(18) months) shall contain an appropriate price adjustment clause.
(x) 
Rejection of bids: all bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the
Bank's prior concurrence.
(xi) 
Contracts: all contracts shall be in writing, signed and stamped by authorized
signatories of the purchaser and the supplier, and shall contain identical terms and
conditions of contract to those included in the tender documents.
(xii) 
Securities: bid securities shall not exceed two percent (2%) of the estimated cost
of the contract; performance securities shall not exceed ten percent (10%). No
advance payments shall be made to contractors without a suitable advance payment
security. The wording of all such securities shall be included into the bidding
documents and be acceptable to the Bank.
(xiii) 
Right to inspect and audit: In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each
bidding document and contract financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
provide that bidders, suppliers and contractors, and their subcontractors, agents,
personnel, consultants, service providers, or suppliers, shall permit the Bank to
inspect all accounts, records, and other documents relating to the submission of
bids and contract performance, and to have them audited by auditors appointed by
the Bank. Acts intended to materially impede the exercise of the Bank's inspection
and audit rights provided for in the Procurement Guidelines constitute an
obstructive practice as defined in the Guidelines.
(xiv) 
Fraud and Corruption: The bidding document and contract as deemed acceptable
by the Bank shall include provisions stating the Bank's policy to sanction firms or
individuals, found to have engaged in fraud and corruption as defined in the
Procurement Guidelines.
- 15 
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
4. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
5. 
"IRMS" means the Integrated Revenue Management System to be developed
under Part 11.3 of the Project.
6. 
"Ministry of Finance" or "MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and
includes any successor thereto.
7. 
"Montenegro Tax Administration" or "MTA" means the Borrower's tax
administration, established through the Law on State Administration published on
Official Gazette RCG 28/2003 as amended through Official Gazette CG 54/2016,
and includes any successor thereto.
8. 
"Operational Manual" means the operational manual adopted by the Borrower for
the Project, referred to in Section I.B.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
satisfactory to the Bank.
9. 
"PIC" means the Project Implementation Committee, established by the Borrower
through the Internal Order No. 03/1-9703/1-17 of May 31, 2017, and aimed to
ensure, inter alia, that the Project activities are properly coordinated and
implemented, and includes any successor thereto.
10. 
"PMU" means project management unit referred to in Section I.A. of Schedule 2
to this Agreement responsible for, inter alia: (i) carrying out the project
management and reporting; and (ii) coordinating with the TSU the procurement,
financial management, and disbursement activities under the Project.
- 16 
11. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
12. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
June 6, 2017 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
13. 
"Project Steering Committee" means the Project steering committee referred to in
Section I.A. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, responsible for, inter alia: (i)
providing strategic guidance to the MTA on issues related to Project
implementation and revenue administration reforms; and (ii) ensuring inter-agency
coordination in connection with the implementation of the Project, and includes
any successor thereto.
14. 
"Revenue Modernization Advisory Board" means the revenue modernization
advisory board referred to in Section I.A. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
comprised of representatives of associations of taxpayers, business associations,
tax accountants and auditors, responsible for, inter alia, providing feedback to the
Project Steering Committee on the institutional changes to be made under the
Project, and includes any successor thereto.
15. 
"TSU" means the Technical Services Unit within the MOF, responsible for
carrying out the procurement, disbursement and financial management activities
relating to the Project.
16. 
"Working Groups" means the four working groups established by the Borrower
through the Internal Orders No. 03/1-9701 through 9704/1-17 of May 31, 2017,
responsible for, inter alia: (i) carrying out day-to-day implementation of Project
activities of components 1.1, 11.1, 11.3 and III of the Project, respectively, with the
support of the PMU; (ii) developing the terms or reference and technical
specifications relating to the consulting services under the project; and (iii)
supervising the execution of said consulting services in their respective areas of
responsibility, and includes any successors thereto.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1 .
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
- 17 
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. 
The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any
prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of
a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable
upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any
Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
