OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8895-EG
Loan Agreement
(Transforming Egypt's Healthcare System Project)
between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8895-EG
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between the ARAB REPUBLIC OF
EGYPT ("Borrower") and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of five hundred thirty million
Dollars ($530,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower's representative for purposes
of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is
MOHP.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower on the principle amount of the Loan
withdrawn and the amount outstanding from time to time for each Interest Period
shall be at a rate equal to the Reference Rate (as defined in Paragraph 92 of the
Appendix to the General Conditions) for the Loan Currency plus the Variable
Spread; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principle
amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion
Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may
apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.
-2-
2.07. 
The Payment Dates are October 1 and April 1 in each year.
2.08. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
2.09. 
The Borrower represents that it has designated its Ministry of Finance for the
purpose of handling, on behalf of the Borrower, debt service payments with respect
to the Loan.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall carry out the Project through MOHP in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Event of Suspension additional to those set out in the General Conditions
consists of the following, namely, that legislation, license or other legal instrument
related to the implementation of the Project has been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
achievement of the objectives of the Project.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
Subject to the other provisions of this Article and Section 9.01 of the General
Conditions, this Agreement shall become effective once the Bank has received
evidence that all necessary constitutional procedures have been taken by the
Borrower.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty (180) days after the
Signature Date or such date later as the Bank may establish in accordance with the
provisions of Section 9.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its minister responsible for investment and
international cooperation.
-3-
6.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower's address is:
Ministry of Investment and International Cooperation
8 Adly Street
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt; and
(b) 
the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
Cable address:
Ministry of Investment and International Cooperation
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt
Facsimile:
(202) 2391-2815
(202) 2391-5167
6.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) 
the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By:
Auth 
zed Representative
Name:
Title: 
a,J -r\ 
n
Date:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND EVELOPMENT
By:
Athoked Representative
Narne:
Title: 
v Ce
Date:\ 
,c(
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) improve the quality of primary and
secondary health care services; (ii) enhance demand for health and family planning
services; and (iii) support the Borrower in its prevention and control of Hepatitis C.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Stren2then Primary Healthcare, Family Planning and Community Activities
1.1 
Providing 
for quality services at PHC 
facilities 
through strengthening
improvements in selected PHC facilities in the Participating Governorates,
including, inter alia:
(i) 
updating and modernizing the health care quality framework for MOHP
through updating its accreditation tool, conducting a mapping of PHC
services and a needs assessment exercise, and ensuring the grievance
redresses mechanism and the district level heath care management systems
are both enabled;
(ii) 
supporting improvements in the quality of health care and verifying the
quality of services using the Quality of Services Indicator Index;
(iii) 
carrying out independent direct observations of quality of clinical services;
and
(iv) 
accrediting PHC facilities using quality accreditation standards as outlined
in the National Egyptian Accreditation Guidelines.
1.2 
Strengthening a community health worker (CHW) program in the Participating
Governorates through improving health promotion and health education,
including, inter alia:
(i) 
contracting additional CHWs to supplement the health workers gaps for
the Project duration;
(ii) 
providing training to CHWs as per the CHW Operational Guidelines;
(iii) 
increase awareness of the population about key health risks and prevention
measures, as well as family planning; and
(iv) 
procuring mobile tablet devices that would enable the CHWs to automate
the messages, communicate with their leaders, capture real time
-6-
performance data, and provide instant feedback to queries raised by the
community.
1.3 
Supporting family health and planning activities on a national scale to bridge the
unmet needs for family planning in Egypt, including, inter alia:
(i) 
contracting family planning doctors to fill gaps in the provision of
appropriate care;
(ii) 
supporting yearly national communication campaigns to deliver family
planning messages and strengthening media messaging in public spaces;
(iii) 
providing accreditations to health facilities for offering family planning
services in accordance with the WHO criteria;
(iv) 
supporting supervisory visits to family planning clinics;
(v) 
procurement of services on family planning methods and medical
equipment;
(vi) 
incentivize improvements in the contraceptive prevalence rate through the
active engagement of family planning centers to promote long-term
contraceptive use; and
(vii) 
providing institutional capacity strengthening for the National Population
Council to better manage population growth.
1.4 
Carrying out a program to screen for Hepatitis C and risk factors for high burden
diseases, including, inter alia:
(i) 
supporting nationwide mass screenings for Hepatitis C, blood sugar level,
blood pressure level, and body mass index as calibrated by age groups and
geographic disease burden areas, using the modalities of community
mobile screening, PHC and hospital screening; and categorical screenings
catering for either specific geographic concentrations or events; and
(ii) 
procuring mobile tablet devices for the mobile screening teams that would
enable them to instantaneously capture, transmit and interact with the
national MOHP screening system.
Part 2: Strengthen Secondary Level Healthcare
2.1 
Providing for quality healthcare services at hospitals through improving the quality
of healthcare services in referral hospitals in the Participating Governorates,
including, inter alia:
-7-
(i) 
strengthening the continuity of quality care for patients referred from PHC
facilities through an accreditation program for hospitals carried out in
accordance with the National Egyptian Accreditation Guidelines;
(ii) 
supporting hospitals with medical and non-medical equipment, medical
and non-medical furniture, consumables, medicines, cleaning and safety
personnel services, training of staff, and contracting needed services and
personnel; and
(iii) 
carrying out independent direct observations of quality of clinical services.
2.2 
Improving the Borrower's blood bank network through the following measures,
including, inter alia:
(i) 
supplementing and replacing the current fleet of specially adapted blood
donation and transportation mobile vehicles;
(ii) 
extending the automated national blood banks networks into the regional
blood transfusion centers which have not yet been connected to the central
blood bank network through supporting their IT infrastructure and
operating systems; and
(iii) 
boosting the NAT testing of all dispensed blood units and strengthening
the NAT testing capacity by further supplying the regional and central
NBTS centers with NAT machines and their respective testing kits.
2.3 
Treating Hepatitis C through the following measures, including, inter alia:
(i) 
supporting the provision of treatment care for affected patients through the
provision of DAAs included in the treatment protocols approved by
MOHP and aligned with the WHO and the provision of needed operational
support to Hepatitis C centers and sentinel surveillance centers;
(ii) 
supporting all public hospitals at the national level by providing Hepatitis
B immuno-globulin which helps to protect the high-risk groups from
infection risks with Hepatitis B following a hazardous post-exposure
incident for health personnel or to prevent vertical transmission of disease
(mother to child) in pregnant mothers; and
(iii) 
carrying out confirmation tests for patients who received treatment for
Hepatitis C.
-8-
Part 3: Institutional Capacity Building and Project Manap-ement
3.1 
Strengthening the capacity of the PMU in Project management, monitoring and
evaluation, providing training for relevant MOHP staff, contracting an external
verification agency and financial auditors.
3.2 
Strengthening the institutional capacity of relevant public-sector agencies and
providing technical assistance for rolling out a comprehensive health insurance
system, including, inter alia:
(i) 
providing technical assistance to strengthen the capacity of relevant
public-sector agencies and supporting the needed quantitative and
qualitative analysis for the three newly created organizations that will be
responsible for implementing the new CHIS;
(ii) 
conducting household surveys on the impact of the CHW program in
effecting the needed changes in various health programs;
(iii) 
conducting technical/research studies to evaluate different aspects of the
national screening program for Hepatitis C and non-communicable
diseases;
(iv) 
conducting a yearly patient satisfaction survey to measure the progress in
patient satisfaction in the Participating Governorates as a result of
implementation of Project activities;
(v) 
conducting a yearly average quality of clinical care assessment for both
PHCs and referral hospitals through an independent direct observational
methodology; and
(vi) 
conducting population surveys to measure improvement in the use of
family planning methods.
Part 4: Contin2ency Emer2ency and Response
Providing immediate response to an eligible emergency, as needed, to boost the
Borrower's response in the event of a national health emergency.
-9-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Project Steering Committee (PSC)
(a) 
The Borrower, through MOHP, shall establish prior to the commencement
of Project implementation, and thereafter maintain throughout such
implementation, a Project Steering Committee with terms of reference,
composition and resources acceptable to the Bank.
(b) 
The Project Steering Committee shall ensure strategic direction, overall
supervision of the Project, and adequate coordination with line ministries
and alignment with sector strategies.
2. 
The Project Management Unit (PMU)
The Borrower, through MOHP, shall maintain throughout Project implementation
the Project Management Unit with terms of reference, resources and staffing in
adequate numbers acceptable to the Bank to be responsible for all day-to-day
operations and coordination, including overall fiduciary matters, procurement,
monitoring, evaluation and reporting.
B. 
Project Operations Manual
1 .
The Borrower, through MOHP, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in
accordance with the Project Operations Manual containing detailed arrangements
and procedures for: (a) the composition and roles and responsibilities of the PSC;
(b) 
institutional coordination and day-to-day execution of the Project;
(c) monitoring, evaluation, reporting and communication; (d) eligibility criteria
and procedures for identification and selection of hospitals and Participating
Governorates, 
(e) administration, financial management, procurement and
accounting; (f) the Verification Protocol and the appointment of a Verification
Agent; (g) the detailed provisions and criteria for activating and implementing the
contingent emergency response component under Part 4 of the Project, and
(h) such other administrative, technical and organizational arrangements and
procedures as shall be required for purposes of implementation of the Project.
2. 
The Borrower, through MOHP, shall prepare and adopt the POM prior to the
commencement of Project implementation and shall not amend, abrogate, waive
or permit to be amended, abrogated or waived the POM, or any provision thereof,
without the prior written consent of the Bank.
- 10 
C. 
Verification
1. 
The Borrower, through MOHP, shall:
(a) no later than three (3) months after the Effective Date, or such later date as
agreed by the Bank, appoint and thereafter maintain, at all times during the
implementation of the Project, an independent verification 
agent with
qualifications and experience and under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank
("Verification Agent"), to verify the data and other evidence supporting the
achievement of one or more DLIs as set forth in the table in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement and recommend corresponding payments to be made, as applicable,
under Category 2; and
(b) (i) Ensure that the Verification Agent carry out verification and process(es) in
accordance with the Verification Protocol; and (ii) submit to the Bank the
corresponding verification reports in a timely manner and in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
D. 
Financing under Parts 1 and 2 of the Project based on Disbursement-linked
Indicators
1. 
The Borrower through MOHP shall:
(a) 
implement Parts I and 2 of the Project in accordance with the institutional,
safeguards, financial management and procurement arrangements set out
in this Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(b) 
throughout the period of implementation of the Project as necessary, carry
out verification to determine whether the DLIs/DLRs have been met as
detailed in the POM; and
(c) 
furnish said assessment to the Bank for its review.
2. 
(a) 
The amount of payments which the Borrower may request for DLI-based
financing under Parts I and 2 of the Project shall be determined on the
basis of the maximum amount allocated by the Bank to each DLI/DLR,
subject to the provisions of Section III of this Schedule 2, provided that
such amount shall not exceed the total amount of payment for Eligible
Expenditures incurred during the year covered by the DLI-based financing
payment requested, excluding any amount of eligible expenditures
financed from other sources of financing.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provision of sub-paragraph (a) of this sub-section 2,
all payments under the DLI-based financing shall be subject to the Bank's
prior written approval and shall only be eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan if and to the extent approved by the Bank in
accordance with the provisions of Section III of this Schedule 2.
E. 
Social and Environmental Safeguards
1. 
Borrower through MOHP shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Environmental and Social Management Framework ("ESMF"). To this end, the
Borrower shall ensure that the following actions are taken in a manner acceptable
to the Bank if any Project activity would, pursuant to the ESMF: (a) require the
carrying out of an Environmental and Social Impact Assessment ("ESIA"), the
Borrower through MOHP shall carry out an ESIA for such activity, in accordance
with the ESMF, and furnish it to the Bank for review and approval, and disclose
said ESIA as required by the ESMF and approved by the Bank; (b) require the
preparation of an Environmental and Social Management Plan ("ESMP"), the
Borrower through MOHP shall prepare such ESMP in accordance with the ESMF
and furnish it to the Bank for review and approval, and disclose said ESMP as
required by the ESMF and approved by the Bank and thereafter implement the
ESMP during the Project implementation; and (c) incorporate said ESMP in the
bidding documents.
2. 
Without limitation upon its other reporting obligations under this Agreement and
under Section 5.08 of the General Conditions, the Borrower through MOHP shall
monitor the implementation of the ESMF, ESIA, and ESMP and thereafter shall
include in the Project Reports referred to in Section II of this Schedule 2, adequate
information on the implementation of the ESMF, ESIA, and ESMP, giving details
of: (a) measures taken in furtherance of such ESMF, ESIA, and ESMP;
(b) conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the smooth
implementation of such ESMF, ESIA, and ESMP; and (c) remedial measures taken
or required to be taken to address such conditions and to ensure the continued
efficient and effective implementation of such ESMF, ESIA, and ESMP.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring ReportinF and Evaluation
The Borrower, through MOHP, shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not
later than sixty (60) days after the end of each calendar semester, covering the
calendar semester.
Section III. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and
in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the
Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible
Expenditures; and (b) pay: (i) the Front-end Fee; and (ii) each Interest Rate Cap or
- 12 
Interest Rate Collar premium; in the amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the
percentage set forth against each Category of the following table:
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
Financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, 
317,375,000 
100%
consulting services,
non-consulting
services, Training
and Operating Costs
under Parts 1. 1(iii);
Part 1.2(i), (ii) and
(iv); Parts 1.3(i)-(v)
and (vii), Part 1.4
(ii); Part 2.1, 2.2, 2.3
(i) and (ii), and Part
3 of the Project
(2) Eligible 
211,300,000 
100% of each DLI
Expenditures 
Amount set out in
Program under Parts 
Schedule 4 (or such
1.1(i), (ii) and (iv), 
lesser percentage as
Part 1.2 (iii), Part 1.3 
represents the total
(vi), Part 1.4(i), and 
Eligible Expenditures
Part 2.3(iii) of the 
incurred by the
Project 
Borrower under the
Eligible Expenditure
Program as of the date
of withdrawal)
(3) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due in
Interest Rate Collar 
accordance with Section
Premium 
4.06(c) of the General
Conditions.
(4) Front-end Fee 
1,325,000 
Amount payable
pursuant to Section 2.03
of this Agreement in
accordance with Section
2.07(b) of the General
Conditions
- 13 
(5) Emergency 
0 
Up to 100%
Expenditures under
Part 4 of the Project
TOTAL AMOUNT 
530,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
for payments for Eligible Expenditures Program under Category (2) and
for payments under Category 1, made prior to the date of this Agreement
except that withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
US$30,000,000 may be made for payments made prior to this date but on
or after September 1, 2017, and in the case of payments for Eligible
Expenditures Program under Category (2), the conditions set forth in sub-
paragraph (b) below shall be satisfied;
(b) 
under Category (2), unless and until the Borrower through MOHP has
furnished evidence acceptable to the Bank that: (i) payments for Eligible
Expenditures Program have been made in accordance, and in compliance,
with the procedures set forth in the Borrower's applicable laws and
regulations and the POM; and (ii) the DLIs/DLRs set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement for which payment is requested have been met and
verified in accordance with the POM; or
(c) 
under Category (5), unless and until the Borrower through MOHP has:
(i) determined that an eligible emergency has occurred; (ii) submitted a
request to the Bank for activation of the CERC; (iii) prepared an
emergency action plan for the use of CERC funds, and the Bank has
approved said Plan; and (iv) the preparation and disclosure of any
additional safeguards instruments pertaining to CERC activities that may
require these additional instruments have been prepared and disclosed.
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, payments under Category
(2) shall not exceed the maximum amounts allocated to the respective
DLI(s)/DLRs as provided in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Part B, if the Bank
shall determine, based on the evidence provided by the Borrower through MOHP
under paragraph 1 of this Part B, that any DLI(s)/DLRs have not been achieved or
have been partially achieved by the end of the year during which such
DLI(s)/DLRs were scheduled to be met in accordance with Schedule 4 to this
Agreement, the Bank may in its sole discretion, by notice to the Borrower:
- 14 
(a) 
withhold in whole or in part the amount of the Loan allocated to such
DLI(s)/DLRs;
(b) 
disburse in whole or in part the amount of the Loan allocated to such
DLI(s)/DLRs at any later time when such DLI(s)/DLRs are met; and/or
(c) 
reallocate in whole or in part any amount of the Loan allocated to such
DLI(s)/DLRs to other DLI(s)/DLRs under Category (2) or to other
Categories.
4. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Bank determines, at any time, that any
portion of the amounts disbursed by the Borrower under Category (2) was made for
reimbursement of expenditures that are not eligible under the Eligible Expenditures
Program or not in compliance with the provisions ofparagraphs 1(b) and 2 of Section
HI.B of this Schedule, the Borrower shall promptly refund any such amount to the
Bank as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
5. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2023.
- 15 
SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-linked Amortization Repayment Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share").
Level Principal Repayments
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
On each October 1 and April 1 
1.67%
Beginning October 1, 2023
through October 1, 2052
On April 1, 2053 
1.47%
The determination of the principal amounts of the Loan repayable on each Principal
Payment Date is made in accordance with Section 3.03 of the General Conditions.
- 16-
SCHEDULE 4
Disbursement-linked Indicators under Parts 1 and 2 of the Project
Loan
Disbursement- 
Amount
Linked 
Disbursement Linked Results 
allocated
Indicators 
(as applicable) 
(in US$) 
Disbursement Calculation Formula
DLR 1.1: MOHP's existing
accreditation guidelines for PHC 
1,000,000 
NA
facilities updated
DLI 1: 
DLR 1.2: PHC services mapping
Development 
exercise completed 
1,000,000 
NA
of quality tools
and 
DLR 1.3: PHC needs assessment 
1,000,000 
NA
mechanisms 
carried out
DLR 1.4: PHC needs assessment
carried out on their facilities 
1,000,000 
NA
which require re-accreditation
DLR 2.1: Distribute the GRM 
500,000
Manual to all PHCs and district 
NA
level staff in Participating
Governorates
DLI 2: 
DLR 2.2: Percentage of GRM
Percentage of 
training completed for all PHC 
500,000 
achievement, US$10,000 will be
grievances 
and district level staff in 
awarded, up to the maximum allocated
addressed in 
Participating Governorates using 
amount.
Project target 
the updated GRM Manual
facilities in 
DLRs 2.3: By December 31, 
500,000 
For each % point increase, $25,000
accordance 
2020, 20% grievances addressed 
will be awarded, up to the maximum
with the 
using the GRM in accordance 
allocated amount.
revised GRM 
with the revised GRM Manual
Manual issued
in 2017
DLRs 2.4: By December 31, 
500,000 
For each % point increase, $25,000
2021, 40% of grievances 
will be awarded, up to the maximum
addressed using the GRM in 
allocated amount.
accordance with the revised GRM
Manual
- 17 
DLRs 2.5: By December 31, 
500,000 
For each % point increase, $25,000
2022, 60% of grievances 
will be awarded, up to the maximum
addressed using the GRM in 
allocated amount.
accordance with the revised GRM
Manual
DLRs 2.6: By December 31, 
500,000 
For each % point increase, $25,000
2023, 80% of grievances 
will be awarded, up to the maximum
addressed using the GRM in 
allocated amount.
accordance with the revised GRM
Manual
DLRs 3.1: By December 31, 
500,000 
For each % point increase, $25,000
2019, 20% of districts 
will be awarded, up to the maximum
participating in the Project 
allocated amount.
certified for enhanced governance
performance
DLRs 3.2: By December 31, 
500,000 
For each % point increase, $25,000
2020, 40% of districts 
will be awarded, up to the maximum
participating in the Project 
allocated amount.
certified for enhanced governance
performance
DLI 3:
DLIg3: 
DLRs 3.3: By December 31, 
500,000 
For each % point increase, $25,000
Strengthening 
2021, 60% of districts 
will be awarded, up to the maximum
governance 
participating in the Project 
allocated amount.
and 
.
certified for enhanced governance
daeentd 
performance
management
DLRs 3.4: By December 31, 
500,000 
For each % point increase, $25,000
2022, 80% of districts 
will be awarded, up to the maximum
participating in the Project 
allocated amount.
certified for enhanced governance
performance
DLRs 3.5: By December 31, 
500,000 
For each % point increase, $25,000
2023, 100% of districts 
will be awarded, up to the maximum
participating in the Project 
allocated amount.
certified for enhanced governance
performance
Each facility will be awarded
DLI 4: 
DLR 4.1: Number of facilities 
US$80,000 provided that it receives at
Improvement 
passing the Quality of Services 
48,000,000 
least 80% or more of the total score in
of PHC Quality 
Index (QSI). 
the QSI, and provided that all DLRs
of Services 
under DLI 1 have previously been
achieved. The minimum payment
- 18 
threshold is US$4,000,000 up to the
maximum allocated amount.
DLR 4.2: Number of facilities 
Each facility will be awarded
receiving a certificate of 
US$20,000 upon accreditation. The
accreditation, using the updated 
12,000,000 
minimum payment threshold is
accreditation tool, and which 
US$1,000,000 up to the maximum
previously received the QSI 
allocated amount.
certificate.
DLR 5.1: By December 31, 2019, 
600,000 
NA
12% of households visited by
CHW in the past year
DLR 5.2: By December 31, 2020, 
600,000 
NA
DLI 5: 
17% of households visited by
Increased 
CHW in the past year
household 
DLR 5.3: By December 31, 2021, 
600,000 
NA
visits by 
22% of households visited by
CHWs 
CHW in the past year
(applicable to
Participating 
DLR 5.4: By December 31, 2022, 
600,000 
NA
Governorates) 
27% of households visited by
CHW in the past year
DLR5.5: By December 31, 2023, 
600,000 
NA
32% of households visited by
CHW in the past year
DLI 6: 
DLR6.1: By December 31, 2021, 
1600000 
NA
Increased 
62% achievement
contraceptive
prevalence rate 
DLR 6.2: By December 31, 2023, 
1,600,000 
NA
(national level) 
65% achievement
Payment for screening of every 50,000
DLI 7: NCD 
DLR 7.1: Number of people 
persons will be US$10,000. The
screened as per the protocol 
4,000,000 
minimum payment threshold is
screening 
provided in the POM. 
US$500,000 up to the maximum
allocated amount.
- 19-
DLR 8.1: Number of people 
Payment for screening of every
screened at the community level 
500,000 persons will be US$1,620,000.
using the rapid test, and at PHCs 
129,600,000 
The minimum payment threshold is
screening 
and hospitals using lab and/or 
US$3,240,000 up to the maximum
rapid test, anywhere in Egypt. 
allocated amount.
DLR9.1: By December 31, 2018, 
200,000 
NA
70% of patients taking the
confirmation test following
treatment for Hep C, of the total
number of patients treated.
DLR9.2: By December 31, 2019, 
400,000 
NA
70% of patients taking the
confirmation test following
treatment for Hep C, of the total
number of patients treated.
DLR9.3: By December 31, 2020, 
500,000 
NA
70% of patients taking the
DLI 9: 
confirmation test following
Increased 
treatment for Hep C, of the total
confirmation 
number of patients treated.
testing post 
DLR9.4: By December 31, 2021, 
400,000 
NA
Hep C 
75% of patients taking the
treatment 
confirmation test following
treatment for Hep C, of the total
number of patients treated.
DLR9.5: By December 31, 2022, 
300,000 
NA
75% of patients taking the
confirmation test following
treatment for Hep C, of the total
number of patients treated.
DLR 9.6: By December 31, 2023, 
200,000 
NA
80% of patients taking the
confirmation test following
treatment for Hep C, of the total
number of patients treated.
TOTAL 
211,300,000
AMOUNT: 
_ 
I
- 20 
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section fII.A of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
3. 
"CERC" means contingent emergency response component.
4. 
"CHIS" means the Borrower's Comprehensive Health Insurance System to be
rolled-out in 6 phases over a 15-year period, with implementation starting in July
2018, as a result of the passage on December 17, 2017, of the Comprehensive
Health Insurance Law.
5. 
"CHW' means community health workers.
6. 
"CHW Operational Guidelines" means the MOHP Guidelines issued specifically
for community health workers in 2017.
7. 
"DAAs" means direct antiviral agents.
8. 
"Disbursement Linked Indicator" or "DLI" means in respect of Category (2), each
of the indicators related to said Category as set forth in the table in Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
9. 
"Disbursement Linked Result" or "DLR" means in respect of Category (2), each
of the results related to said Category as set forth in the table in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement, on the basis of the achievement of which, the amount of the Loan
allocated to said result may be withdrawn in accordance with the provisions of
Section III.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
10. 
"Eligible Expenditures Program" means Eligible Expenditures incurred by the
Borrower for the implementation of Parts 1 and 2 of the Project financed through
Chapter 1 (salaries and wages) of the budget allocated to MOHP and its affiliated
entities.
11. 
"Emergency Expenditure" means any of the Eligible Expenditures set forth in the
POM (as defined hereunder) in accordance with the provisions of Section I.B. 1 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and required for the activities included in Part 4 of
the Project.
-21 
12. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the
framework disclosed in the Borrower's country and on the Banks website on April
26, 2018, including a medical waste management plan and setting forth an
environmental and social screening process that will enable the Borrower to
identify and assess potential adverse environmental and social impacts, and to
eliminate or offset adverse environmental and social impacts or to reduce them to
acceptable levels, or enhance positive impacts, and in accordance with which site-
specific ESIAs and ESMPs will be prepared and submitted to the bank for its
approval, as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior written
approval of the Bank.
13. 
"Environmental and Social Impact Assessment" or "ESIA" means any site-
specific environmental and social impact assessment prepared pursuant to the
ESMF pursuant to Section I.E.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement for Project
activities, in each case describing a set of mitigation, enhancement, monitoring,
and institutional measures to be taken during implementation of the Project to
mitigate adverse environmental and social impacts, offset them, or reduce them to
acceptable levels, or to enhance positive impacts; as the said environmental impact
and social assessments may be amended and/or supplemented from time to time
with the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
14. 
"Environmental and Social Management Plan" or "ESMP" means any site-specific
Environmental and Social Management Plan, acceptable to the Bank and prepared
in accordance with the ESMF pursuant to Section I.E.lof Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, in each case describing: (i) the measures to be taken during the
implementation and operation of the Project to eliminate or offset adverse
environmental and social impacts, or to reduce them to acceptable levels, and
(ii) the actions needed to implement these measures, including monitoring and
institution strengthening.
15. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project
Financing", dated July 14, 2017.
16. 
"Governorate" means an administrative division of the Arab Republic of Egypt.
17. 
"GRM" means grievance redress mechanism.
18. 
"GRM Manual" means a manual developed in 2017, by the MOHP to collect and
handle complaints from the patients who visit the public health facilities.
19. 
"Operating Costs" means the reasonable incremental expenses incurred by the
Borrower (including by PMU), and approved by the Bank attributable to Project
implementation, management and monitoring, including costs relating to office
supplies and consumables, stationery and sundries, maintenance of office
- 22 
equipment, communication, advertising, office rentals, utility costs, operation and
maintenance of office vehicles, per diem and travel costs for Project staff,
reasonable bank charges, allowances and salaries of Project staff (but excluding
the salaries of the Borrower's civil servants).
20. 
"Participating Governorates" means Governorates selected and to be selected
according to the criteria set out in the Project Operations Manual.
21. 
"PHC" means primary health care.
22. 
"POM" means the operations manual for the Project to be adopted by the Borrower
and agreed with the Bank, in accordance with Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, as the same may be modified from time to time with the prior written
agreement of the Bank, and such terms includes any annexes or schedules to such
manual, including but not limited to the Verification Protocol.
23. 
"Project Management Unit" or "PMU" means the unit referred to in paragraph 2
of Section L.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
24. 
"Procurement Regulations" means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF
Borrowers", dated July 2016, revised November 2017.
25. 
"Project Steering Committee" or "PSC" means the committee referred to in
paragraph 1 of Section L.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
26. 
"MOHP" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health and Population, or any
successor thereof.
27. 
"NAT" means nucleic acid testing.
28. 
"National Egyptian Accreditation Guidelines" means standards used for hospital
accreditation, issued by MOHP and the Borrower's Accreditation Executive
Committee in April 2013.
29. 
"National Population Council" means the Borrower's government agency in
charge of national population policy matters.
30. 
"NBTS" means national blood transfusion services.
31. 
"NCD" means non-communicable disease.
32. 
"Quality of Services Indicator Index" means a composite indicator, endorsed by
the World Bank and UNICEF, and detailed in the POM, which measures outputs
related to improvements in the quality of care at PHCs.
- 23 
33. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the
date of the Loan Agreement" in the General Conditions.
34. 
"Training" means the costs of training under the Project, based on the annual work
plans and budgets referred to in Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement as
approved by the Bank, and attributable to seminars, workshops, and study tours,
along with travel and subsistence allowances for training participants, services of
trainers, rental of training facilities, preparation and reproduction of training
materials, and other activities directly related to course preparation and
implementation.
35. 
"Verification Agent" means an independent entity to be engaged by the MOHP for
the purposes of certifying the achievement of the DLRs as referred to in Section
I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
36. 
"Verification Protocol" means the Borrower's Verification Protocol, as included
in the POM and acceptable to the Bank, setting forth the detailed criteria for the
achievement of DLRs and means by which the same will be verified under the
Project, as such Verification Protocol may be amended from time to time with the
prior written agreement of the Bank.
37. 
"WHO" means the World Health Organization.
