OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8796-IQ
Loan Agreement
(Baghdad Water Supply and Sewerage Improvement Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF IRAQ
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8796-IQ
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between the REPUBLIC OF IRAQ
("Borrower") and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of two hundred ten million
Dollars ($210,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may
apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the Mayoralty of Baghdad
-2-
("MoB") in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions
and Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its minister responsible for finance.
5.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower's address is:
Ministry of Finance
Hay Alaloom
Bab Al Mu'dham
Baghdad, Iraq; and
(b) 
the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
E-mail:
s.hadeethi@mof.gov.iq
5.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) 
the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-3-
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
REPUBLIC OF IRAQ
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
f4 
kL 
cL
Title: TVk 
Aj~VV 
4 
"'-
Date: 
2-19 120,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
:______
Title:
Date: 
y)
-4-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve the quality of drinking water supply and
wastewater services in Baghdad.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Institutional Strengthening for Integrated Urban Water Management and
Utility Management, and Creating an Enabling Environment for Private
Sector Management
(a) 
Assessing the MoB's institutional knowledge and preparedness for integrated
urban water management and water security management, including, climate
change adaptation measures, sustainability of water use, potential use of
groundwater and non-conventional water sources, undertaking associated studies
and preparing appropriate master plans for the purpose.
(b) 
Undertaking a comprehensive assessment of Baghdad Water Authority ("BWA")
and Baghdad Sewerage Authority ("BSA") revenue administration systems as well
as business processes and implementing key recommendations (including,
preparation of a revenue administration manual, business process re-engineering
and Training of staff), all with a view to improve water billing and collection
processes.
(c) 
Acquisition, installation and operationalization of: (i) commercial management
systems incorporating modem billing, account 
collection 
and customer
information systems for BWA and BSA; (ii) modem financial and accounting
management systems for BWA and BSA, including, disbursement, auditing and
monitoring arrangements; and (iii) modem infrastructure/asset management
databases for BWA and BSA.
(d) 
Strengthening the capacity of the Project Management Unit ("PMU") for
designing, preparing and structuring long-term bankable investment projects in the
sector (including, innovating financing aspects, public-private partnerships,
procurement and contract management aspects), through participation in study
tours, provision of Training and carrying out of associated studies.
Part 2: Investment in Drinking Water Supply and Wastewater Infrastructure
(a) 
Construction of an R2 reservoir on the east side of Baghdad, comprising of a twin
compartment concrete ground level reservoir, inlet and outlet works, reservoir
overflow systems, pumping stations including pumps, piping system, standby
-5-
generator station, chlorination station, guard house, fuel tank, store warehouse,
access road and landscaping, and security towers.
(b) 
Rehabilitation of approximately 29 sewerage pumping stations including the main
network, namely, Dora main sewerage pumping station; Habibiya main sewerage
pumping station; 22 sewerage and storm water pumping stations in Rasafa; and
Ghazalya main sewerage system including the main trunk and five pumping
stations.
(c) 
Piloting water loss reduction activities in Shaab and Rasheed municipalities of
Baghdad, through establishment and operationalization of district metered areas,
preparation of a customer database, installation or replacement of customer meters,
establishment of an active non-revenue water management system and acquisition
and installation of a SCADA system.
(d) 
Establishment and operationalization of a non-revenue water unit in BWA.
(e) 
Undertaking a comprehensive assessment of the shared roles and responsibilities
of BWA and the municipalities for management of the integrated water network
(such as non-revenue water management and reduction, establishment of district
metered areas, installation of customer meters, repair of leaks, service connection
replacement, distribution network replacement, among others) to identify gaps and
make recommendations for improvement.
(f) 
Provision of engineering and other consulting services for, inter alia, reviewing
detailed designs, preparation of bidding documents, preparation of bid evaluation
reports, supervision and management of construction and other works (including,
environmental and social impacts due diligence), under the Project, all with a view
to strengthening the capacity of the BWA and BSA for supervision and
management of Project.
Part 3: Project Management, Studies and Monitoring and Evaluation
(a) 
Strengthening the capacities of the MoB, BWA, BSA and the PMU for
implementation, coordination and management of activities under the Project
(including, inter alia, procurement, financial management, technical and financial
audits, environmental and social safeguards, grievance redress mechanisms,
monitoring and evaluation, health information management, supervision and
reporting aspects), all through the provision of consulting services, non-consulting
services, Training, Operating Costs, and acquisition of goods for the purpose.
(b) 
Carrying out of an IBNET performance assessment and preparation of an
appropriate report.
-6-
(c) 
Provision of Training for BWA, BSA and municipalities in Baghdad on
environmental and social safeguards issues under the Project.
(d) 
Undertaking select studies on water and wastewater services as well as preparation
of feasibility studies on future water supply and sewerage improvement projects.
(e) 
Supporting citizens' engagement, communication and water conservation
awareness activities.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
Mayoralty of Baghdad
(a) 
The Borrower shall designate, at all times during the implementation of the Project,
the Mayoralty of Baghdad (in particular, the BWA and the BSA) to be responsible
for providing overall strategy and guidance and to be responsible for the
implementation, supervision, monitoring and evaluation of Project activities, and
shall take all actions including the provision of funding, personnel and other
resources necessary to enable said Mayoralty of Baghdad to perform said
functions.
(b) 
Project Management Unit. To this end, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Mayoralty of Baghdad establishes and thereafter maintains throughout the period
of implementation of the Project, a Project Management Unit ("PMU"), with
composition, terms of reference and resources satisfactory to the Bank. The PMU
shall be responsible for, inter alia: day to day preparation, implementation,
supervision, coordination, management, monitoring and evaluation of Project
activities and results.
B. 
Safeguards
1 .
The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with the Safeguard
Instruments and shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provision
of any of the Safeguard Instruments without the prior written approval of the Bank
and subject to compliance with applicable consultation and public disclosure
requirements of the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that adequate information on the implementation of the
Safeguards Instruments is suitably included in the Project Reports referred to in
Section II of this Schedule, including details of: (a) measures taken in furtherance
of the Safeguards Instruments; (b) conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to
interfere with the smooth implementation of the Safeguards Instruments; and
(c) remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such conditions.
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that: (a) all measures identified and described in the
Safeguards Instruments are taken in a timely manner, and (b) that the tender
documents and each contract for civil works to be carried out under the Project
includes the obligation of the relevant contractor to comply with the relevant
-8-
Safeguards Instruments applicable to such civil works commissioned or awarded
pursuant to said contract.
4. 
Without limitation upon the foregoing, the Borrower shall:
(a) 
prior to commencing civil works for any activity under the Project and
when required under the ESMF, prepare, adopt and disclose appropriate
ESIA(s) and/or ESMP(s), as applicable, in accordance with the ESMF,
such ESIA(s) and/or ESMP(s) to be in form and substance satisfactory to
the Bank;
(b) 
prior to commencement of civil works for any activity of the Project
involving involuntary resettlement or involuntary acquisition of land,
prepare, adopt, disclose and implement appropriate RAP or RAPs, as the
case may be, for compensation or resettlement, in accordance with the
RPF, such RAP or RAPs to be in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank; and
(c) 
prior to commencing civil works for any activity under the Project and
when required under the ESIAs, ESMPs and the RAPs, carry out specific
public consultation in form and in substance satisfactory to the Bank.
5. 
In the event that any provision of the Safeguards Instruments shall conflict with
any provision under this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
6. 
The Borrower shall: (a) by no later than ninety (90) days after the Effective Date,
establish and thereafter maintain throughout the period of implementation of the
Project, a grievance redress mechanism, satisfactory to the Bank, for the
management of complaints related to the Project; and (b) ensure that adequate
measures, satisfactory to the Bank, are put in place to ensure that all aspects of
Project implementation are carried out in an inclusive, non-discriminatory and
participatory manner.
7. 
The Borrower shall ensure that all terms of reference for any technical assistance
and studies to be carried out under the Project are prepared in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank and taking into account appropriate environmental and
social safeguards measures.
8. 
The Borrower shall ensure that any area in which civil works under the Project will
be implemented has been cleared of Explosive Remnants of War and/or
Unexploded Ordinance (s), and to that end, prior to commencing civil works for
any activity under the Project, the Borrower shall provide a confirmation, in form
and substance satisfactory to the Bank, that the area in which such civil works will
be implemented has been declared safe and clear of Explosive Remnants of War
and/or Unexploded Ordinance(s).
-9-
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar
semester.
Section III. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
1 .
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and
in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the
Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible
Expenditures; and (b) pay: (i) the Front-end Fee; and (ii) each Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar premium; in the amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the
percentage set forth against each Category of the following table:
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non- 
209,475,000 
100%
consulting services,
consulting services,
Training and
Operating Costs for the
Project
(2) Front-end Fee 
525,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of
the General Conditions
(3) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar 
Section 4.05 (c) of the
premium 
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
210,000,000
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawal shall be made
for payments made prior to the Signature Date.
3. 
The Closing Date is May 30, 2023.
-10-
SCHEDULE 3
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share").
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
On each February 15 and August 15, beginning 
5%
February 15, 2023, through August 15, 2032.
-11-
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Affected Person" means a person who as a result of: (a) the involuntary taking of
land under the Project is affected in any of the following ways: (i) relocation or
loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources
or means of livelihood, whether or not the affected person must move to another
location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and
protected areas, suffers adverse impacts on his or her livelihood.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
3. 
"Baghdad Sewerage Authority" or "BSA" means the Borrower's sewerage utility
established and operating pursuant to Law No. 16 of 1995 (Law of Baghdad
Municipality).
4. 
"Baghdad Water Authority" or "BWA" means the Borrower's water utility
established and operating pursuant to Law No. 16 of 1995 (Law of Baghdad
Municipality).
5. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section III.1 of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
6. 
"ESIA" means an environmental and social impact assessment to be prepared by
the Borrower pursuant to the ESMF, in each case identifying and assessing the
potential environmental and social impacts of a proposed Project activity; and
"ESIAs" means two or more such ESIA, as such ESIAs may be amended from
time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
7. 
"ESIA/ESMP" 
each 
means 
the 
document 
of the 
Borrower 
entitled:
(a) "Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA)/Environmental and
Social Management Plan (ESMP) for Rehabilitation of Al-Habibiya, Al-Doura,
and Al-Ghazaliya Sewerage Subprojects" ESIA and ESMP Report dated and
disclosed August 2017; and (b) "Environmental and Social Impact Assessment
(ESIA)/Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP) for Constructing R2
Water Reservoir Complex" ESIA and ESMP Report dated and disclosed August
2017.
8. 
"ESMP" means: (a) an environmental and social management plan to be prepared
by the Borrower pursuant to the ESMF, in each case setting forth appropriate
mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures designed to mitigate the
-12-
potential adverse environmental and social impacts of a proposed Project activity;
or (b) the document of the Borrower entitled "Environmental and Social
Management Plan (ESMP) for Rehabilitation of twenty-two Sewerage Pumping
Stations in Rusafa", Generic ESMP Report dated and disclosed in August 2017;
and "ESMPs" means two or more such ESMP, as such ESMPs may be amended
from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
9. 
"Explosive Remnants of War" means explosive remnants of war, including but not
limited to, unexploded ordnance, improvised explosive devices and landmines.
10. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project
Financing", dated July 14, 2017.
11. 
"IBNET" means International Benchmarking Network of Water and Sanitation
Utilities.
12. 
"Mayoralty of Baghdad" or "MoB" means the Borrower's entity established and
operating pursuant to Article 2 of Law No. 16 of 1995 (Law of Baghdad
Municipality).
13. 
"Operating Costs" means the reasonable costs incurred by the PMU on account of
Project implementation including costs for communication; translation and
interpretation; printing; advertising; office supplies; banking charges; Project
related travel (including per diems, accommodation and transportation); vehicle
rental and fuel; postal fees; and other miscellaneous costs directly associated with
Project implementation subject to approval by the Bank, but excluding salaries and
allowances of the Borrower's civil servants or other regular government staff.
14. 
"Procurement Regulations" means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for
Borrowers under Investment Project Financing", dated July 1, 2016.
15. 
"Project Management Unit" or "PMU" mean a Project management team to be
established by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions of Section I.A.1.(b) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
16. 
"RAP" means a resettlement action plan to be prepared by the Borrower pursuant
to the RPF, describing, for a proposed Project activity, the compensation and other
resettlement assistance to be provided, consultation to be conducted with Affected
Persons about acceptable alternatives, institutional responsibilities for the
implementation, procedures for grievance redress, and arrangements for
monitoring and evaluation; and "RAPs" means more than one such RAP, as such
RAPs may be amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the
Bank.
-13-
17. 
"RPF" means the Resettlement Policy Framework for Baghdad Water Supply and
Sewerage Improvement Project, RPF Report, prepared and disclosed by the
Borrower on August 20, 2017, setting forth the guidelines, procedures, timetables
and other specifications for the provision of compensation, rehabilitation and
resettlement assistance to Affected Persons, and for the preparation and
implementation of RAPs; as such RPF may be amended from time to time with the
prior written agreement of the Bank.
18. 
"Safeguard Instrument" means one of the following: ESIA, ESIA/ESMP, ESMP,
RAP and RPF as the context may require, and "Safeguard Instruments" means,
collectively, two or more of the listed instruments.
19. 
"SCADA" means Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition.
20. 
"Signature Date" means the latest of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applied to all references to "the
date of the Loan Agreement" in the General Conditions.
21. 
"Training" means the reasonable costs of training, seminars, workshops,
conferences and study tours, including: (a) the fees of training institutions and
courses; (b) domestic and international travel costs, lodging costs, and
subsistence/per diem allowances for both trainers and trainees; (c) the rental of
training facilities; and (d) preparation, purchase or reproduction of training
materials.
