OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8889-EC
Loan Agreement
(Additional Financing for the Quito Metro Line One Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
MUNICIPALITY OF THE METROPOLITAN
DISTRICT OF QUITO
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between the INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") and the MUNICIPALITY OF THE
METROPOLITAN DISTRICT OF QUITO ("the Borrower") for the purpose of providing
additional financing for activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this
Agreement). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of two hundred and thirty million
Dollars ($230,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1
to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount, to be paid by
the Borrower according to Section 3.01 (a) of the General Conditions.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance to be paid by the Borrower according to Section 3.01 (b) of
the General Conditions.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Fixed Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
2
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project with the participation of the EPMMQ pursuant to the
provisions of the Subsidiary Agreement, all in accordance with the provisions of Article V
of the General Conditions and Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
EPMMQ shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Subsidiary
Agreement.
(b) 
The Borrower and/or the Guarantor shall have failed to perform any of their
respective obligations under the Inter-Institutional Framework Agreement, so as
to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.
(c) 
The EPMMQ's Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the
ability of EPMMQ to perform any of its obligations under the Subsidiary
Agreement.
(d) 
The Borrower's Legal Framework has been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the
Bank, the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this
Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following:
(a) 
Any event specified in Section 4.01 (a) or (b) of this Agreement occurs and is
continuing for a period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given
by the Bank to the Borrower.
(b) 
Any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement
occurs.
ARTICLE V- EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that the
Subsidiary Agreement has been updated in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
3
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Alcalde del Distrito Metropolitano de Quito.
5.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower's Address is:
Venezuela entre Espejo y Chile
Palacio Municipal, 1 er piso
Quito, Ecuador
Phone:
593-2-3952300
5.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions, the Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
4
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTR CTI 
N 
DEVELOPMENT
By
thoriz 
epresentative
Name: 
W 
éíl 
p E 2..
Title: 
/971/ 
7e 
st-R
Date: 
/0/
MUNICIP 
YOF THE
METROPOL 
DISTRICT Q 
TO
By
C uthorized Representative
Nam 
lwilrwaiScc dr'€vý) NENA,
Title: 
oFrene 
7o 7-Alf 
6,5s-?
Date: /wn£â,2/
5
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve urban mobility in the Borrower's territorial
jurisdiction serving the growing demand for public transport. The Project will reduce travel time,
decrease operational costs of the transport service, improve connectivity, security and comfort of
the current system and reduce emissions of pollutants and green-house gases.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part I. Construction of Two Metro Stations of the Ouito Metro Line One
Construction of the metro stations of La Magdalena and El Labrador.
Part H. Infrastructure and Equipment Investment for the Ouito Metro Line One
1. 
Construction of: (i) about twenty-three kilometers of tunnel linking the Quitumbe and El
Labrador metro stations; (ii) thirteen metro stations; and (iii) a yard and maintenance shops
at the Quitumbe metro station.
2. 
Provision and installation of metro system-wide facilities (including the permanent way
and systems equipment) for the operation of the Quito Metro Line One.
Part HI. Provision of Train Sets to Operate in the Ouito Metro Line One
Acquisition of at least eighteen six-car train sets, with four automotive cars per train and
auxiliary vehicles for track maintenance and yard work, and workshop equipment.
Part IV. Project Management
Provision of technical assistance for the management oversight and supervision of the
Project, all under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
Part V. Institutional Studies, Safeguards and Project Implementation Supporting Activities
Carrying out of the following activities: (a) demand-driven technical studies; and (b)
provision of technical assistance and Training, all to support: (i) the implementation of the Project;
(ii) the implementation of the SITP; and (iii) the Borrower's capacity to carry out its environmental
and social safeguards responsibilities and obligations (including the provision of financing of
Resettlement Expenditures and related works) under the Project; all under terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank.
6
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
The Borrower shall cause the EPMMQ to maintain, throughout the implementation of the
Project, key staff for the Project, including without limitation, a Project coordinator, a
procurement specialist, a financial management specialist, an environmental specialist, a
social specialist, a physical cultural resources specialist and a health and safety specialist,
all with terms of reference, and qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank.
B. 
Project Operational Manual
1. 
The Borrower shall, and shall cause the EPMMQ to: (a) update the ROP to include the
arrangements for the process and procedures for control, approve and monitor cash and in-
kind compensations for Resettlement Expenditures, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) immediately thereafter carry out the Project in accordance
with the provisions of the ROP.
2. 
The Borrower shall, and shall cause the EPMMQ to, not to amend or waive any provision
of the ROP without the Bank's prior written approval. In case of any conflict between the
terms of the ROP and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
C. 
Subsidiary Agreement
1. 
For purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall update the Subsidiary
Agreement with the EPMMQ, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the Subsidiary
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce the
Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions.
D. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall, and shall cause EPMMQ to, ensure that the Project is carried out in
accordance with the provisions of the Environmental Impact Assessment (including the
EMP), the PGASS-H (including the PAC and the PAC Health and Safety), the RPF, the
RAPs, the IPPF and any applicable IPPs.
2. 
Without limitation to paragraph 1 above, the Borrower shall, and shall cause EPMMQ to,
ensure that:
7
(a) 
for each activity which involves works under the Project for which the RPF
provides for the preparation of a RAP: (i) prior to the carry out of any said works,
such RAP is prepared and disclosed in accordance with the RPF, adequately
consulted with Affected Persons as per the RPF, and furnished to the Bank for
review and approval; and (ii) thereafter the RAP is adopted and implemented in
accordance with its terms and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b) 
for each activity under the Project for which the IPPF provides for the preparation
of an IPP: (i) prior to the carry out of any said activity, such IPP is prepared and
disclosed in accordance with the IPPF, adequately consulted upon and furnished
to the Bank for review and approval; and (ii) thereafter the IPP is adopted and
implemented in accordance with its terms and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
Without limitation to paragraph 1 above, the Borrower shall cause the EPMMQ to maintain
throughout Project implementation an adequate institutional capacity, including staffing,
and systems acceptable to the Bank, as shall be necessary to fully implement, manage,
coordinate, and monitor the implementation of the Safeguard Instruments.
4. 
Without limitation to the provisions of this Section, the Borrower shall, and shall cause
EPMMQ to: (a) maintain and publicize the availability of the grievance redress mechanism
set forth in the PGASS-H for purposes of listening to complaints raised in relation with the
implementation of the Project; and (b) thereafter take all measures necessary to implement
the decisions made by the Borrower and EPMMQ under such grievance redress mechanism,
all in accordance with the Safeguard Instruments and in manner acceptable to the Bank.
5. 
The Borrower shall ensure, and cause EPMMQ to ensure, that all contractors and
subcontractors (which contracts were awarded pursuant to the terms of Original Loan
Agreement): (i) comply with the obligations under the applicable Safeguard Instruments;
and (ii) comply with the Code of Conduct that should be provided to and signed by all
workers; all in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and as applicable to such civil works
commissioned or carried out pursuant to said contracts.
6. 
The Borrower shall ensure, and cause EPMMQ to ensure, that all bidding documents and
contracts for civil works to be awarded pursuant to the terms of this Agreement shall include
the obligation of the relevant contractors and subcontractors to: (i) comply with the
obligations under the applicable Safeguard Instruments; and (ii) adopt and enforce code of
conducts that should be provided to and signed by all workers; all in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank and as applicable to such civil works commissioned or carried out pursuant to
said contracts.
7. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 5.03 of the General Conditions, the Borrower
shall provide, and/or cause to be provided, all the funds necessary or appropriate to perform
its obligations under the Project, including, as applicable, all the funds required to
implement the pertinent RAPs, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
8. 
For purposes of carrying out a land acquisition review of the properties identified in the
PAC, the Borrower shall: (a) cause EPMMQ to, not later than forty five (45) business days
after the Effective Date, prepare and furnish to the Bank, a time-bound action plan,
acceptable to the Bank; and (b) immediately thereafter, implement, and cause EPMMQ to
8
implement (as the case may be), said time-bound action plan (including any corrective
action, as determined and approved by the Bank), in accordance with its terms, and in a
manner acceptable to the Bank.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reportin2 and Evaluation
The Borrower shall cause EPMMQ to furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar semester.
Section III. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in
accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to finance Eligible Expenditures in the amount allocated
and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category of the following
table:
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Category 
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in USD) 
(exclusive of Taxes)
(1) Works, goods and non-
consulting services under Part 
225,000,000 
100%
II the Project
(2) 
Works, 
goods, 
non-
consulting 
services, 
3,850,000 
100%
consulting 
services 
and
Training under Part V of the
Project
(3) Resettlement Expenditures
1,150,000 
100%
TOTAL AMOUNT 
230,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $46,000,000 equivalent may be made for
payments made twelve months prior to this date, for Eligible Expenditures under
Category (1) and Category (2);
(b) 
under Category (3), until the ROP has been updated as provided in Section I.B. 1
(a) of this Schedule.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2020.
9
Section IV. 
Other Undertakin2s
A. 
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree to amend the Original Loan Agreement as
reflected in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
10
SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule
Customized Amortization Repayment Schedule
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan as follows:
Repayment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
September 15, 2028 
10.86957%
March 15, 2029 
9.34783%
September 15, 2029 
9.34783%
March 15, 2030 
7.82609%
September 15, 2030 
7.82609%
March 15, 2031 
7.82609%
September 15, 2031 
7.82609%
March 15, 2032 
6.52174%
September 15, 2032 
6.52174%
March 15, 2033 
4.34783%
September 15, 2033 
4.34783%
March 15, 2034 
4.34783%
September 15, 2034 
4.34783%
March 15, 2035 
2.17391%
September 15, 2035 
2.17391%
March 15, 2036 
0.86957%
September 15, 2036 
0.86957%
March 15, 2037 
0.86957%
September 15, 2037 
0.86957%
March 15, 2038 .86951%
SCHEDULE 4
Amendments to the Original Loan Agreement
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree to amend the Original Loan Agreement as follows:
1. 
Schedule 1 is hereby amended to read in its entirety as set forth in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
2. 
Section I.E of Schedule 2 is hereby amended to read as follows:
"1. 
The Borrower shall, and shall cause EPMMQ to, ensure that the Project is carried
out in accordance with the provisions of the Environmental Impact Assessment (including
the EMP), the PGASS-H (including the PAC and the PAC Health and Safety), the RPF,
the RAPs, the IPPF and any applicable IPPs.
2. 
Without limitation to paragraph 1 above, the Borrower shall, and shall cause
EPMMQ to, ensure that:
(a) 
for each activity which involves works under the Project for which the RPF
provides for the preparation of a RAP: (i) prior to the carry out of any said works,
such RAP is prepared and disclosed in accordance with the RPF, adequately
consulted with Affected Persons as per the RPF, and furnished to the Bank for
review and approval; and (ii) thereafter the RAP is adopted and implemented in
accordance with its terms and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b) 
for each activity under the Project for which the IPPF provides for the preparation
of an IPP: (i) prior to the carryout out of any said activity, such IPP is prepared and
disclosed in accordance with the IPPF, adequately consulted upon and furnished
to the Bank for review and approval; and (ii) thereafter the IPP is adopted and
implemented in accordance with its terms and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
Without limitation to paragraph 1 above, the Borrower shall cause the EPMMQ to
establish' and maintain throughout Project implementation an adequate institutional
capacity, including staffing, and systems acceptable to the Bank, as shall be necessary to
fully implement, manage, coordinate, and monitor the implementation of the Safeguard
Instruments.
4. 
Without limitation to the provisions of this Section, the Borrower shall, and shall
cause EPMMQ to: (a) maintain and publicize the availability of the grievance redress
mechanism set forth in the PGASS-H for purposes of listening to complaints raised in
relation with the implementation of the Project; and (b) thereafter take all measures
necessary to implement the decisions made by the Borrower and EPMMQ under such
grievance redress mechanism, in accordance with the Safeguard Instruments and in manner
acceptable to the Bank.
5. 
The Borrower shall ensure, and cause EPMMQ to ensure, that all contractors and
subcontractors (which contracts were awarded pursuant to the terms of this Agreement):
(i) comply with the obligations under the applicable Safeguard Instruments; and (ii) comply
12
with the Code of Conduct that should be provided to and signed by all workers; all in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank and as applicable to such civil works commissioned or
carried out pursuant to said contracts.
6. 
The Borrower shall ensure, and cause EPMMQ to ensure, that all bidding
documents and contracts for civil works to be awarded pursuant to the terms of this
Agreement shall include the obligation of the relevant contractors and subcontractors to:
(i) comply with the obligations under the applicable Safeguard Instruments; and (ii) adopt
and enforce code of conducts that should be provided to and signed by all workers; all in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank and as applicable to such civil works commissioned or
carried out pursuant to said contracts.
7. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 5.03 of the General Conditions, the
Borrower shall provide, and/or cause to be provided, all the funds necessary or appropriate
to perform its obligations under the Project, including, as applicable, all the funds required
to implement the pertinent RAPs, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank."
3. 
Section III of Schedule 2 is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows:
"1. 
The Borrower shall, and shall cause EPMMQ to, ensure that all goods, works and
services required for the Project, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan are
procured under procedures consistent with the Bank's Core Procurement Principles set
forth in the Procurement Regulations.
2. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. Notwithstanding the provision
mentioned in paragraph (a) above, all goods, works and non-consulting services required
for Part II of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured
by the Borrower: (a) in accordance with the provisions set forth in paragraphs 3.21, 3.23
(e), 3.24, 3.25, 3.32 of the Procurement Regulations; and (b) otherwise also in accordance
with the LADB Procurement Rules.
3. 
Goods, Works, Non-consulting Services and Consulting Services for Part V.
All goods, works, and services required for Part V of the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth
or referred to in the Procurement Regulations and the provisions of the Procurement Plan."
4. 
Any reference to "consultants' services" is hereby replaced with "consulting services".
5. 
The definition of "Procurement Regulations" is hereby added to Section I of the Appendix
(in its corresponding alphabetical order) to read in its entirety as set forth in paragraph 27
of Section I of the Appendix to this Agreement and the subsequent paragraphs renumbered
accordingly.
6. 
The definition of "Procurement Plan" is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows:
"Procurement Plan means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, provided for
under Section IV of the Procurement Regulations, as such plan may be updated from time
to time with the Bank's approval."
13
7. 
Section IV.B.2 of Schedule 2 is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows:
"The Closing Date is December 31, 2020."
8. 
The definitions of "Anti-Corruption Guidelines", "Borrower's Legal Framework", "CAF",
"Environmental Impact Assessment", "EMP, "EPMMQ Legislation", "RPF", "RAP",
"PGASH-S", "ROP", "Safeguard Instruments" and "SITP" in the corresponding
paragraphs of Section I of the Appendix are hereby amended to read in their entirety as set
forth in the corresponding paragraphs of Section I of the Appendix to this Agreement.
9. 
The 
definitions of "Resettlement", 
"Consultant 
Guidelines" 
and "Procurement
Guidelines", set forth in Section I of the Appendix are hereby deleted in their entirety and
the subsequent paragraphs renumbered accordingly.
10. 
The definitions of "Code of Conduct", "IPPF", "IPP", "Affected Person", "PAC" and
"PAC Health and Safety" are hereby included in alphabetic order in Section I of the
Appendix to read in their entirety as set forth in the corresponding paragraphs of Section I
of the Appendix to this Agreement.
14
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Affected Person" means a person or entity who, on account of the execution of the Project,
has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impact caused by: (a) the
involuntary taking of land resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter, (ii) loss of assets or
access to assets, and (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not the
affected persons must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access
to legally designated parks and protected areas resulting in adverse impacts on the
livelihoods of such person; and "Affected Persons" means more than one such Affected
Person.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption
in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006
and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
3. 
"Borrower's Legal Framework" means the following pieces of legislation governing the
creation and functioning of the Borrower: (a) the Borrower's Law (Ordenanza
Metropolitana) No. 1 (C6digo Municipal para el Distrito Metropolitano de Quito), dated
December 12, 1997, and published in the Official Gazette 226 on December 31, 1997, as
amended to the date of this Agreement; (b) the Guarantor's Law No. 46 (Ley de Regimen
del Distrito Metropolitano de Quito), dated November 11, 1993, and published in the
Official Gazette 345 on December 27, 1993, as amended to the date of this Agreement; (c)
the Guarantor's Organic Code of Territorial, Autonomic and Decentralized Organization
(C6digo Orgdnico de Organizaci6n Territorial, Autonomia y Descentralizacidn), dated
August 11, 2010, and published in the Official Gazette on October 19, 2010; (d) the
Guarantor's Organic Code of Planning and Public Finances (C6digo Org6nico de
Planificaci6n y Finanzas Pblicas), dated October 14, 2010, and published on the Official
Gazette 306 on October 22, 2010, as amended to the date of this Agreement; (e) the
Guarantor's Law (Ley Orgdnica para la Eficiencia en la Contrataci6n Ptblica), dated
March 16, 2017, and published in the Official Gazette 966 on March 20, 2017, as amended
to the date of this Agreement; (f) the Guarantor's Law (Ley Orginica del Sistema Nacional
de Contrataci6n Ptblica), dated July 22, 2008, and published in the Official Gazette 395
on August 4, 2008, as amended to the date of this Agreement; and (g) the Gurantor's
Executive Decree (Reglamento a la Ley Orgdnica del Sistema Nacional de Contrataci6n
Pblica), published in the Official Gazette 588 on May 12, 2009, as amended to the date
of this Agreement.
4. 
"CAF" means Banco de Desarrollo de Amrica Latina, the Latin America Development
Bank.
5. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
6. 
"Code of Conduct" means the code of conduct of ACCIONA S.A., approved by the Board
of Directors of ACCIONA S.A. on May 10, 2007 and revised on July 28, 2017.
7. 
"Co-financiers" means the CAF, the EIB, and the IADB.
15
8. 
"Co-financing" means, for purposes of paragraph 16 of the Appendix to the General
Conditions, the following loan amounts: (a) loan amounts of $250,000,000 and
$152,200,000 from CAF; (b) loan amounts of $259,280,000 and $44,152,000 from EB;
and (c) loan amounts of $200,000,000 and $250,000,000 from the LADB, for an aggregate
amount of $1,155,632,000 million, to be provided by said Co-financiers to assist in
financing the Project.
9. 
"Co-financing Agreements" means the following: (a) agreements entered into between: (i)
the Guarantor and the EIB dated November 28, 2012, as amended and restated on
November 14, 2016; (ii) the Guarantor and the CAF dated June 26, 2015; and (iii) the
Guarantor and the IADB dated June 16, 2015; and (b) the agreements to be entered into
between the Guarantor and the IADB, and the Guarantor and CAF, all providing for the
Co-financing.
10. 
"EIB" means the European Investment Bank.
11. 
"EMP" means the Borrower's environmental management plan, dated October 2015,
acceptable to the Bank, which incorporates, inter alia, the recommendations of the
Environmental Impact Assessment, including aspects related to physical cultural resources,
as the same may be updated from time to time with the prior written approval of the Bank.
12. 
"Environmental Impact Assessment" means: (a) the assessment of the environmental and
social impacts of the Project, dated November 2012, acceptable to the Bank; and (b) the
assessment of the environmental and social impacts of changes to the Project in the
Quitumbe area (variante Quitumbe), acceptable to the Bank, and disclosed on the Bank's
website on November 21, 2017; as such assessment may be updated from time to time with
prior written approval of the Bank.
13. 
"EPMMQ" means Empresa P6blica Metropolitana Metro de Quito, the Borrower's Quito
Metro Public Metropolitan Company, duly vested with legal personality pursuant to the
EPMMQ's Legislation.
14. 
"EPMMQ's 
Legislation" 
means 
the 
following 
Borrower's 
Laws (Ordenanzas
Metropolitanas): (a) Ordenanza Metropolitana 0237, dated April 27, 2012, as amended to
the date of this Agreement, establishing the EPMMQ; (b) Ordenanza Metropolitana 0383,
dated April 2, 2013, as amended to the date of this Agreement; 
(c) Ordenanza
Metropolitana 0301, dated September 15, 2009, as amended to the date of this Agreement,
governing the empresas p6blicas metropolitanas; and (d) Ordenanza Metropolitana 0194,
dated March 14, 2012, as amended to the date of this Agreement, establishing the SITP.
15. 
"Executive Decree No 750" means the Guarantor's Decreto Ejecutivo No. 750, dated April
28, 2011, and published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on May 6, 2011, mandating the
Guarantor's Ministry of Finance and National Secretariat of Planning and Development to
take the necessary measure to provide at least 50% of the funds for the financing of Parts I
through IV of the Original Project.
16
16. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing", dated July 14,
2017, with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
17. 
"IADB" means Inter-American Development Bank.
18. 
"LADB Procurement Rules" means Politicas para la Adquisicidn de Bienes y Obras
Financiados por el Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo, dated March 2011.
19. 
"Indigenous Peoples Policy Framework or IPPF" means the Borrower's framework,
acceptable to the Bank, and disclosed on the Bank's website on May 10, 2018, setting forth
the principles, organizational arrangements 
(including consultation, budget and
disclosure), design criteria to be applied to Project activities which affect indigenous
peoples and guidelines for the preparation and the implementation of IPPs, as such
framework may be amended from time to time with prior written agreement of the Bank.
20. 
"Inter-institutional Framework Agreement" means the agreement dated March 21, 2013,
entered into between the Borrower and the Guarantor to facilitate the implementation of
the provisions of the Guarantor's Executive Decree 750.
21. 
"IPP" means any indigenous peoples plan to be prepared by the EPMMQ in accordance.
with the IPPF, and acceptable to the Bank, as the same may be updated from time to time
with the prior written approval of the Bank; and "IPPs" means, collectively, all such IPP.
22. 
"Original Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement for the Original Project between the
Borrower and the Bank, dated November 11, 2013, as amended as of the Signature Date
(Loan No. 8285-EC).
23. 
"Original Project" means the project described in Schedule 1 to the Original Loan
Agreement.
24. 
"PAC" means the Borrower's corrective action plan, acceptable to the Bank and included
in the PGASS-H, which includes measures to mitigate and compensate environmental and
social impacts resulting from the implementation of the Project.
25. 
"PAC Health and Safety" means the Borrower's corrective action plan for health and safety
issues, acceptable to the Bank and included in the PGASS-H, which includes measures to
mitigate and compensate health and safety impacts resulting from the implementation of
the Project.
26. 
"PEGASHS or PGASS-H" means Programa para la Gestion Ambiental, Social, Higiene
y Seguridad Laboral Para el Proyecto Primera Linea del Metro de Quito, referred to in
Section I.D. 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, acceptable to the Bank, and disclosed in the
Bank's website on May 14, 2018, setting forth the additional operational guidelines for the
implementation and supervision of the environmental, social, physical cultural resources,
and health and safety aspects of the Project, including: (a) guidance to manage: (i) potential
environmental, social, physical cultural resources, health and safety and gender based
violence and sexual exploitation and abuse risks, (ii) mitigate, reduce and/or offset adverse
environmental, social, physical cultural resources, and (iii) health and safety impacts
17
associated with the implementation of Project activities; (b) measures designed to prevent
gender-based violence and sexual exploitation and abuse; (c) a description of the adequate
institutional, monitoring and reporting arrangements capable of ensuring proper
implementation of this program; (d) a detailed description of the mechanism for grievance
redress; (e) a description of the Project's communication and dissemination strategy; (f)
the PAC; and (g) the PAC Health and Safety, as the same may be updated from time to
time with the prior written approval of the Bank.
27. 
"Procurement Regulations" means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF Borrowers", dated
July 2016 and revised November 2017.
28. 
"Quito Metro Line One" means the metrorail line of approximately 23 km of extension,
including a total of 15 stations, connecting Quitumbe and El Labrador stations.
29. 
"RAP" means: (i) the Plan de Reasentamiento Proyecto Primera Linea del Metro de Quito
Ecuador, acceptable to the Bank, and disclosed on the Bank's website on May 7, 2018;
and (ii) any resettlement action plan to be prepared by the EPMMQ in accordance with the
RPF, and acceptable to the Bank, as the same may be updated from time to time with the
prior written approval of the Bank; and "RAPs" means, collectively, all such RAP.
30. 
"Resettlement Expenditures" means the expenditures incurred in financing the cost of: (i)
providing resettlement compensation and assistance under the Project in accordance with
the RPF and pertinent RAPs; (ii) any resettlement compensation measures to be
implemented under the PAC; and (iii) if applicable, any corrective measures to be
implemented under the time-bound action plan referred to in Section I.D.8 of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
31. 
"Resettlement 
Policy Framework or RPF" means the Marco de Politicas de
Reasentamiento Primera Linea del Metro Quito, acceptable to the Bank, and disclosed on
the Bank's website on May 7, 2018, setting forth the resettlement principles, procedures,
institutional arrangements, eligibility criteria, entitlements and compensation, including
valuation procedures, budget, public disclosure and consultation, monitoring and
evaluation and guidelines, all governing resettlement preparation and implementation of
RAP, as said framework may be amended and/or supplemented from time to time with the
prior written approval of the Bank.
32. 
"ROP" means Reglamento Operativo de Proyecto, the Borrower's operational manual for
the Project, dated April 24, 2018, acceptable to the Bank, which sets forth, inter alia: (a)
the procedures for the carrying out, monitoring and evaluation of the Project (including the
procurement, disbursement, financial, social and environmental requirements thereof); and
(b) a detailed description of the division of function and responsibilities of the Borrower
and EPMMQ for the implementation of the Project, and referred to in Section I.B.1 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as said manual may be amended from time to time with
agreement of the Bank.
33. 
"Safeguard Instruments" means collectively, the Environmental Impact Assessment
(including the EMP), the PGASS-H (including the PAC and the PAC Health and Safety),
the IPPF, the IPPs, the RPF, and the RAPs.
18
34. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the date of the Loan
Agreement" in the General Conditions.
35. 
"SITP" means Sistema Integrado de Transporte de Pasajeros, the Borrower's Integrated
Transit System established pursuant to the Borrower's Law (Ordenanza Metropolitana)
No. 0194, dated February 28, 2012.
36. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement between the Borrower and EPMMQ dated
August 7, 2015, referred to in Section I.C.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time with the prior written approval of the Bank.
37. 
"Training" means expenditures (other than those for consulting services) incurred by the
EPMMQ in connection with the carrying out of seminars, workshops, including the
reasonable travel costs (i.e. accommodation, transportation and per-diem, inter alia) of
trainees and trainers (if applicable), training registration fees, catering, rental of training
facilities and equipment, logistics and printing services, as well as training materials for
the purposes of and directly related to the activities described in the Project.
Section H. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
Section 2.05 is modified as follows: (a) the word "and" after paragraph (b) is replaced
with a semicolon, (b) the "period" at the end of paragraph (c) is replaced with a "semi
colon" followed by the word "and"; and (c) a new paragraph (d) is added after
paragraph (c) to read as follows:
"(d) the payment is for the financing of the reasonable works, goods and non-
consulting services under Part II of the Project which are deemed eligible for financing
by all the Co-financiers (as said term is defined in the Loan Agreement)."
2. Section 5.13 of the General Conditions is hereby modified to read in its entirety as
follows:
"(a) The Borrower shall, and shall cause EPMMQ to, ensure that all goods, works and
services required for the Project, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan are
procured under procedures consistent with the Bank's Core Procurement Principles set
forth in the Procurement Regulations.
(b) Notwithstanding the provision mentioned in paragraph (a) above, all goods, works
and non-consulting services required for Part II of the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured by the Borrower: (a) in accordance with
the provisions set forth in paragraphs 3.21, 3.23 (e), 3.24, 3.25, 3.32 of the Procurement
Regulations; and (b) otherwise also in accordance with the IADB Procurement Rules.
(c) All goods, works and services required for the Part V of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
19
requirements set forth or referred to in the Procurement Regulations and the Provisions
of the Procurement Plan."
