OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8908-IN
Loan Agreement
(Jharkhand Power System Improvement Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between INDIA ("Borrower") and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I- GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of three hundred and ten million
United States dollars, (USD3 10.000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to
time through a Currency Conversion ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit (as
said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of this Section), the
Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of one half of one percent
(0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-
paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The
Exposure Surcharge (if any) shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each
Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during which
the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit, the product of:
(A) the total amount of said excess: and (B) the ratio of all (or, if the Bank
so determines, a portion) of the Loan to the aggregate amount of all (or the
equivalent portions) of the loans made by the Bank to the Borrower, and
-2-
to other borrowers guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an
exposure surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined
from time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on, the Bank's
financial exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded, would subject the
Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined from time to time by the
Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total financial
exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are June 15and December15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall ensure that the Project Implementing Entity causes JUSNL and JBVNL
(the "Implementing Agencies") to carry out their Respective Parts of the Project in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension is that any of the Implementing Agencies' Legal
Frameworks has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of the relevant Implementing Agency to perform any
of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration is that the event specified in Section 4.01 of this
Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 60 days after notice of the event has
been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness is that the Subsidiary Agreements have been
executed on behalf of the Project Implementing Entity and the Implementing Agencies and
all conditions precedents for their effectiveness have been met.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
-3-
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is any of the following officials, acting severally: the
Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under
Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower.
6.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower's Address is:
Secretary
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
Government of India
North Block
New Delhi 110 001, India, and
(b) 
the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile:
-91 (11)23092883
6.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) 
the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
INDIA
By
Auforized Representative
Name: 5&" C-6g-wS 
k#lAPC
Title: A1 
7StOrroArkL
Date:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Byy 
_
Authorized Representative
Name: 
~ 
k~A 
4k
Title: 4P0AJI*V/Ah
Date: A)0Vo56-1'6~&
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to increase the transmission capacity of the electricity
network in the State of Jharkhand and strengthening the institutional capacity of the state-owned
power transmission and distribution utilities.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Component L. 
Intra-State Transmission System Strengthening
1 
Expanding and strengthening intra-state transmission system to increase its capacity and
reliability through the construction of 132 kV, and 220 kV substations and associated
transmission lines, and carrying out emergency restoration measures.
2. 
Strengthening the State Load Dispatch Center and its operations, by financing, among
others, availability-based-tariff meters, software solutions, optical ground wire and
communications equipment.
Component 2 
Technical Assistance for Institutional Development and Capacity Building of
JUSAL
1. 
Improving the organization structure and delegation of financial powers of JUSNL
2. 
Strengthening project planning, procurement and contract management practices within
JUSNL, through inter alia, developing works and procurement policies and procedures
(i.e. detailed procedures for procurement and contract management).
3. 
Strengthening JUSNL's financial management framework by, inter alia, improving the
financial management and corporate governance practices, strengthening internal control
mechanism, and automating financial systems.
4. 
Automating JUSNL's internal business functions (e.g. inventory management, payroll
management) by, inter aba, deploying IT solutions.
5. 
Appointing a Project management consultant to assist JUSNL in supervising and
monitoring sub-projects under Component I of the Project.
6. 
Strengthening the capacity of JUSNL staff through, inter aba, the provision of Training
and Workshops, and knowledge exchange visits.
-6-
Component 3: Improving operational efficiency and developine institutional capacity ofJBVNL
1. 
Installing smart meters, including back-end system integration, in selected geographical
areas and for selected consumers within JBVNL's service delivery jurisdiction.
2. 
Upgrading JBVNL's commercial IT systems and business processes for billing, collection
and customer relationship. management.
3. 
(i) Improving JBVNtL's human resource management by standardizing practices and
policies and developing business review frameworks; (ii) implementing business process
reengineering focused on commercial processes and capital investments; (iii) deploying
software tools and developing business processes to optimize power procurement costs;
(iv) strengthening JBVNL's financial management framework and improving corporate
governance practices and strengthening internal controls; and (v) strengthening the
capacity of JBVNL staff through. inter alia, the provision of Training and Workshops, and
study tours.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arran2ements
A. 
On-lending Arrangements
I. 
To facilitate the Project Implementing Entity's carrying out the Project through the
Implementing Agencies, the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to the
Project Implementing Entity in accordance with the Borrower's standard arrangements for
developmental assistance to the States of India.
2. 
Notwithstanding paragraph I above, in the event that any provision of this Agreement,
including the instructions that the Bank shall have specified by notice to the Borrower
pursuant to Section 2.01(b) of the General Condition (including the Disbursement and
Financial Information Letter), were to be found inconsistent with the Borrower's standard
arrangements for development assistance to the States of India, the provisions of this
Agreement and related instructions shall prevail.
3. 
The Borrower shall protect its own interests and the interests of the Bank to accomplish
the purpose of the Loan.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to ensure that the Implementing
Agencies furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than forty-five (45) days after
the end of each calendar quarter, covering the calendar quarter.
Section III. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in
accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible Expenditures; and (b) pay: (i)
the Front-end Fee; and [(ii) each Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar premium; in the
amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category of
the following table:
-8-
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non-consulting
services, consulting services,
Training and Workshops, and
Incremental Operating Costs
for Components I and 2 of the
Project
(2) Goods, works, non-consulting
services, consulting services
Training and Workshops, and 
25,000,000 
up to 70%
Incremental Operating Costs
for Component 3 of the Project
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 
2.03 
of 
this
(3) Front-end Fee 
775,000 
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions]
(4) Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
Amount 
due 
pursuant 
to
(4)e 
0 
Section 4.05 (c) of the General
Rate Collar premiumCodtns
Conditions]
TOTAL AMONT 
310,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.
I. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed fifty million United States Dollars (USD
50,000,000) may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after
December 1, 2017, for Eligible Expenditures under Categories (1) and (2) above;
or
(b) 
under Category (1) above, until and unless, JUSNL has prepared and adopted the
Operations Manual set forth in Section I.E. of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement, in a manner and substance acceptable to the Bank.
2. 
The Closing Date is May 31, 2024.
-9-
C. 
Ineligible Expenditures
The following expenditures shall not be considered Eligible Expenditures for purposes of
this Loan, and the Borrower shall ensure, and cause the Project Implementing Entity and
the Implementing Agencies to ensure that such expenditures are financed exclusively out
of the Project Implementing Entity's or the Implementing Agencies' own resources, as the
case may be, and not out of the proceeds of the Loan, namely:
(a) 
all land acquisition required for the purpose of the Project;
(b) 
any compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation payment to Affected
Persons in accordance with the provision of the RAP(s) or CPTD(s) and
TPDP.
(c) 
any compensatory afforestation payments, including as required by the
ESMF, or the investment-specific ESMP;
(d) 
any interest during construction;
(e) 
any retention money deducted from contract payments, and not released
by Closing Date; and
(f) 
any expenditures objected or considered ineligible by the World Bank
internal auditors, or the independent auditors in the Project's Financial
Statements prepared pursuant to Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
-10-
SCHEDULE 3
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date ("Installment Share").
Level Principal Repayments
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
On each December 15 and June 15
Beginning December 15, 2023 
2.50%
through June 15, 2043
-11-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1I 
"Affected Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of the Project, have
experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by: (a) the
involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter (ii) loss of assets or
access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such
persons must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally
designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impact on the livelihoods of such
persons.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption
in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006
and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
3. 
"Bank Safeguard Policies" means the Bank's operational policies and procedures set forth
in the Bank's operational manual under OP'BPs 4.01, 4.04, 4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12 and 4.36,
or 
any 
successor 
thereof, 
as 
said 
manual 
is 
published 
under
www.WorldBank.org/opmanual.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section Ill.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
5. 
"CPTD" means each investment-specific compensatory plan for temporary disturbance (to
be) prepared, adopted and publicly disclosed by the JUSNL pursuant to Section I.H.2 of
the Schedule to the Project Agreement, in accordance with the provision of the ESMF,
setting forth the entitlement matrix for the payment of compensations for temporary
disturbance to Affected Persons on account of the erection of towers and right of way for
the power transmission lines under the Component I of the Project in a manner and
substance satisfactory to the Bank, as such plans may be revised/updated from time to time
with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
6. 
"E&S Cell" means the cell to be established by JUSNL pursuant to Section I.C.l(a) of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.
7. 
"ESMF" means JUSNL's environmental and social management framework, dated
September, 2017, disclosed by the Bank on December 27, 2017, setting forth the guiding
policies/principles, acceptable standards and procedures for: (a) screening of Project
investment activities and the identification of any adverse or positive social and
environmental 
impacts caused, 
or expected to be caused, 
on account of their
implementation., including the identification of any Affected Persons arising as a
consequence thereof, as well as the appropriate mitigation and/or compensatory measures
(entitlements) therefor; (b) ensuring that Tribal Groups and their communities affected by
the Project receive culturally appropriate social and economic benefits, and if any potential
adverse effects on such communities were identified, the measures to ensure that their
effects are avoided, minimized, mitigated, or compensated; and (c) preparing the
prescribed ESMP(s), the RAP(s). the CPTD(s) and the TPDP(s), as applicable; as such
-12-
framework may be revised, updated or supplemented from time to time with the prior
written concurrence of the Bank-
8. 
"ESMP" means each investment-specific environmental and social management plan (to
be) prepared adopted and publicly disclosed by JUSNL pursuant to Section I.H.2 of
Schedule to Project Agreement, pursuant to the provisions of the ESMF, setting out
mitigation, enhancement, monitoring and institutional measures, including capacity
building through training, required to: (i) eliminate adverse environmental and social
impacts of activities to be implemented under Project; (ii) provide compensation for them,
and offset them or reduce them to acceptable levels; (iii) enhance any positive impacts
thereof through; and (iv) ensure meaningful participation of stakeholder, in particularly
vulnerable groups; as such plan may be revised, updated or supplemented from time to
time with the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
9. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing", dated July 14,
2017, with the modifications set forth in Section H1 of this Appendix.
10. 
"Implementing Agencies" means collectively JBVNL and JUSNL.
I1. 
"Implementing Agencies' Legal Frameworks" means
(a) 
in respect of JBVNL: the Memorandum and Articles of Association of JBVNL,
dated l' October, 2013, as amended to the date of this Agreement; and
(b) 
in respect of JUSNL: the Memorandum and Articles of Association of JUSNL,
dated of l" October, 2013, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
12. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the incremental expenses incurred by the
Implementing Agencies on account of the management, implementation, monitoring
and/or evaluation of their Respective Parts of the Project, including, but no limited to:
incremental co-terminus staff salaries, per diem and allowances, office rent, office supplies,
utilities, conveyance, travel and boarding/lodging allowances, operating and maintenance
expenditures of office equipment and vehicles, bank charges, insurance, advertising, media
projections, newspaper subscriptions, periodicals, and printing and stationary costs
incurred for the purposes of Project activities; but excluding salaries, fees, honoraria,
bonuses, and any other salary supplements of members of the Borrower's and the Project
Implementing Entity's civil service or the Implementing Agencies regular (open ended)
staff
13. 
"IT" means information technology.
14. 
"JBVNI" means Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited company, a state-owned power
distribution utility, registered under the Borrower's Companies Act (1956) pursuant to
Certificate of Incorporation No. U40108JH2013SGC001702, having its registered offices
at Engineering Building, H.E.C Dhurwa, P.S. Hatia, Ranchi, Jharkhand, India.
15. 
"JBVNL PMC" means the Project management consulting firm selected by JBVNL
pursuant to contract dated 25"' January 2018 between JBVNL and Tata Power Delhi
Distribution Ltd. and referred to in Section I.D of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
-13-
16. 
"JUSNL" means Jharkhand Urja Sancharan Nigam Limited company. a state-owned power
transmission utility, registered under the Borrower's Companies Act (1956) pursuant to
Certificate of Incorporation No. U40108JH2013SGC001603, having its registered offices
at JUSNL Building, Kusai Colony, Doranda, Ranchi, Jharkhand, India.
17. 
"JUSNL PMC" means the Project management consulting firm to be selected and hired by
JUSNL pursuant to Section I.C. 1.(b) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
18. 
"kV" means kilo-volts.
19. 
"kW" means kilo-watts.
20. 
"Operations Manual" means the manual to be prepared and adopted by JUSNL for the
implementation of its Respective Parts of the Project, pursuant to Section I.E. 1 of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.
21. 
"P[U" means each of the Project implementation units established within each
Implementing Agency in order to carry out its Respective Parts of the Project, and referred
to in Section I.B.2(a) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
22. 
"Procurement Regulations" means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF Borrowers", dated
July 2016, revised November 2017.
23. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means the Borrower's State of Jharkhand.
24. 
"RAP" means each of the resettlement action plans (to be) prepared., adopted and publicly
disclosed by JUSNL pursuant to Section I.H.2 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement,
in accordance with the provisions of the respective ESMF, setting forth any compensation,
rehabilitation and resettlement assistance to be provide to Affected Persons on account of
permanent land taking .under Component 1 of the Project in a manner and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, as such plans may be revised/updated from time to time with the
prior written agreement of the Bank.
25. 
"Respective Parts of the Project" means:
(a) 
in respect of JBVNL: Component 3 of the Project; and
(b) 
in respect of JUSNL: Components 1 and 2 of the Project.
26. 
"Safeguard Documents" means, collectively, the ESMF and every investment-specific
ESMP(s), RAP(s), CPTD(s) and TPDP(s).
27. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the date of the Loan
Agreement" in the General Conditions.
28. 
"State Load Dispatch Center" means JUSNL's State Load Dispatch Center established
pursuant to Borrower's Unified Load Dispatch Scheme as well as state of Jharkhand's State
Load Dispatch Center established pursuant to subsection (1) of Section 31 of the
-14-
Borrower's Electricity Act, 2003 and being implemented by Power Grid Corporation
Limited of India pursuant to the agreement dated March 17, 2009
29. 
"State of Jharkhand" or "Jharkhand" means the Borrower's State of Jharkhand.
30. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means, each of the agreements referred to in Section I.A of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement pursuant to which the Project Implementing Entity shall
make the proceeds of the Loan available to the Implementing Agencies for the carrying out
of their Respective Parts of the Project.
31. 
"TPDP" means each of the tribal people's development plans (to be) prepared, adopted and
publicly disclosed by JUSNL pursuant to Sections I.H.2 of Schedule to the Project
Agreement, in accordance with the provisions of the ESMF, setting forth the principles and
procedures designed to ensure meaningful consultation with, and informed participation
of, Tribal Groups and their communities in the design and implementation of the
Component I of the Project, as well as their participation in the envisioned culturally
appropriate and socially inclusive benefits thereof, all in a manner and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, as such plans may be amended from time to time with the prior
written concurrence of the Bank.
32. 
"Training and Workshops" means the reasonable costs of training, workshops and
conferences required by the Implementing Agencies for their Respective Parts of the
Project, and conducted in the territory of the Borrower or, subject to the Bank's prior
approval, overseas, including: (i) training, institutional and course fees; (ii) logistics
expenses; (iii) rental of training facilities; (iv) purchase and publication of training
materials; and (v) travel and subsistence allowance for trainers andior trainees.
33. 
"Tribal Groups" means any distinct, vulnerable, social and cultural group within the
territory of Jharkhand that: (i) self-identifies as such and claims, and is recognized by others
as, having a distinguishable cultural identity; 
(ii) has collective attachment to
geographically distinct habitats or ancestral territories in the Project area, and to the natural
resources in these habitat and territories; (iii) has customary cultural, economic, social and
political institutions that are separate from those of the dominant society and culture; and
(iv) has an indigenous language, often different from the official languages of the Borrower
and/or of Jharkhand.
Section H. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1 .
Any reference to the "Project Implementing Entity" throughout the General Conditions
shall be construed, for purposes of this Agreement and/or the Project Agreement, as a
reference to the "Project Implementing Entity and the Implementing Agencies."
2. 
Any reference to the "Project Implementing Entity's Representative" throughout the
General Conditions shall be construed, for purposes of this Agreement and/or the Project
Agreement, a reference to each of the "Implementing Agencies' Representatives."
