OFF-C-AL
DOCUM 日NTS
■ ■
■■ 目■ ■ － ■ ■ ■ 圈■ ■ ■
■
■ ■ 口■
目■
■ ■ ■ ■ 圈■
LOAN NUMBER LN 8842一ID
Loan Agreemcnt
(Second Indonesia Logistics Reform Development Policy Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
▼“ .
、
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
2 of I I 
LN8842
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
("Bank") for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix
to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alla, of. (i) the
actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I
of Schedule I to this Agreement; and (ii) the Borrower's maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic
policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form part
of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have the
meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE 11 -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of three hundred million United States
Dollars (USD 300,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion ("Loan").
2.02. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.03 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn
Loan Balance.
2.04. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Fixed Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
2.07. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.05 of the General Conditions, the Borrower
shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this Article 11
as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.
2.08. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit (as said
terrns are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of this Section), the Borrower
shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of one half of one percent (0.5%) per
annum of the Allocated Excess Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i)
of this Section) for each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if
any) shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
3 of 11 
LN8842
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during which the
Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit, the product of: (A) the
total amount of said excess; and (B) the ratio of all (or, if the Bank so
determines, a portion) of the Loan to the aggregate amount of all (or the
equivalent portions) of the loans made by the Bank to the Borrower and to other
borrowers guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an exposure
surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined from time to time
by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the Bank's financial
exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded, would subject the Loan to the
Exposure Surcharge, as determined from time to time by the Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total financial exposure
to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this end,
and further to Section 5.05 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework and the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program;
(b) 
without limitation upon paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall promptly
inform the Bank of any situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the
objectives of the Program or any action taken under the Program, including any action
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: a situation has arisen which
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be carried out.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: the event specified in Section
4.01 of this Agreement occurs.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following: the Bank is satisfied with
the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program and with the adequacy of
the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
4 of 11 
LN8842
ARTICLE VI- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower's address is:
Directorate General of Budget Financing and Risk Management
Ministry of Finance
Gedung Frans Seda
JI. DR. Wahidin Raya No. 1
Jakarta 10710, Indonesia; and
(b) the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile: +62-21-381-2859
6.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile: +1-202-477-6391
5 of 11 
LN8842
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
REPUBLIC 
F INDONESIA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
t-K 
ALFIRMN
1ECTOr CENtRAV 
OF GL406CT
Title: 
FirJANCIVC, 4MO 1215Y MANACM6NT
Date: 
JLAL\ 
( , 2018
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Auth 
ep 
ent i e
Name:
Title:
Date: 
14%W 
2Z f 
) 
d
6 of 11 
LN8842
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
Pillar A: 
Improving Port Efficiency and Governance
1. 
BPKP has completed the asset inventory report for the ports managed by the Pelindos, and the
Auditor General of BPK has used the report to provide an independent assessment of the port
concession agreements between Port Authorities and the Pelindos, as evidenced through BPKP
letter dated June 10, 2016, the asset inventory report dated June 3, 2016 and BPK letter dated
October 23, 2017.
2. 
The Minister of Transportation has eliminated the minimum capital requirement to obtain a
port business license, as evidenced through the Minister of Transportation Regulation No. PM
24/2017.
3. 
The Borrower has integrated information from the Port Operators on the flows of documents
and containers at the ports with the INSW system in Jakarta, Surabaya, Medan, Makassar and
Semarang ports, as evidenced through the Head of INSW Portal Administrator letter No. S-
19/INSW/2018 dated January 19, 2018.
Pillar B: 
Enabling a Competitive Business Environment for Logistics Service Providers
4. 
The Minister of Transportation has simplified the licensing requirements of freight forwarders
by: (a) reducing the minimum capital requirement for both domestic and foreign freight
forwarders; (b) eliminating the location restrictions for foreign service providers; and (c)
removing the requirement to obtain a recommendation by the freight forwarding association,
as evidenced through the Minister of Transportation Regulation No. PM 49/2017.
5. 
The Minister of Transportation has eliminated the minimum capital requirement for cargo
handling operators, shipping agencies and maritime transport providers, as evidenced through
the Minister of Transportation Regulation No. PM 24/2017.
6. 
The Borrower has enabled Bonded Logistics Centers to carry out trans-shipment operations for
all types of goods, as evidenced through the Director General of Customs and Excise
Regulation No. PER- 10/BC/2017.
Pillar C: 
Making Trade Processing More Efficient and Transparent
7. 
The Borrower has improved the organizational structure and governance of the INSW Portal
Administrator by elevating the status of the INSW Portal Administrator, as evidenced through
the Presidential Regulation No. 44 of 2018 dated May 31, 2018.
7 of 11 
LN8842
8. 
The Borrower has expedited import procedures for qualified importers by: (a) introducing the
Customs Partner Status; and (b) creating clear rules and user-friendly procedures for qualified
importers to obtain the Customs Partner Status, as evidenced through the Minister of Finance
Regulation 229/PMK.04/2015, the Minister of Finance Regulation 21 1/PMK.04/2016 and the
Director General of Customs and Excise Regulation No. PER- 11/BC/2017.
9. 
The Borrower has implemented the integrated risk management system by exchanging 
through the INSW portal - information on the importers' risk profiles and tax compliance
across four key border agencies, i.e. BARANTAN, BKIPM, BPOM and DGCE, and the
Ministry of Health, as evidenced through the Head of INSW Portal Administrator letter No. S-
19/INSW/2018 dated January 19, 2018.
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice
to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from
which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. 
The allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan Tranche
Allocated
(expressed in USD)
Single Withdrawal Tranche 
300,000,000
TOTAL AMOUNT 
300,000,000
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.
I. 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is satisfied:
(a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with the adequacy of the
Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
D. 
Deposit of Loan Amounts.
1. 
The Borrower, within sixty (60) days after the withdrawal of the Loan from the Loan Account,
shall report to the Bank: (a) the exact sum received into the account referred to in Section 2.03
(a) of the General Conditions; (b) the details of the account to which the USD equivalent of the
Loan proceeds will be credited; (c) the record that an equivalent amount has been accounted
for in the Borrower's budget management systems; and (d) the statement of receipts and
disbursement of the account referred to in Section 2.03 (a) of the General Conditions.
E. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is November 30, 2018.
8 of 11 
LN8842
SCHEDULE 2
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the total
principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date ("Installment Share").
Level Principal Repayments
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
On each January 15 and July 15
Beginning July 15, 2023
through July 15, 2037 
3.33%
On January 15, 2038 
3.43%
9 of 11 
LN8842
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Auditor General of BPK" means the auditor general in BPK, or any successor thereto.
2. 
"BARANTAN" or "Badan Karantina Pertanian" means the Borrower's agency responsible
for agriculture quarantine, or any successor thereto.
3. 
"BKIPM" or "Badan Karantina Ikan, Pengendalian Mutu dan Keamanan Hasil Perikanan"
means the Borrower's agency responsible for fish quarantine and quality and safety control of
fishery products, or any successor thereto.
4. 
"Bonded Logistics Center" means Pusat Logistik Berikat, a bonded storage space to store
cargoes originated from foreign customs offices or other customs offices within Indonesia for
a limited time period prior to their release, and "Bonded Logistics Centers" means, collectively,
all such Bonded Logistics Centers.
5. 
"BPK" or "Badan Pemeriksa Keuangan" means the Borrower's supreme audit agency, or any
successor thereto.
6. 
"BPKP" or "Badan Pengawas Keuangan dan Pembangunan" means the Borrower's agency
responsible for finance and development supervision, or any successor thereto.
7. 
"BPOM" or "Badan Pengawas Obat dan Makanan" means the Borrower's agency responsible
for food and drug administration, or any successor thereto.
8. 
"Customs Partner Status" means Mitra Utama Kepabeanan, a status to be granted to an
importer and/or an exporter, which entails a special treatment for customs affairs.
9. 
"DGCE" means Direktorat Jenderal Bea dan Cukai, the Ministry of Finance's directorate
general responsible for customs and excise, or any successor thereto.
10. 
"Director General of Customs and Excise" means the Ministry of Finance's director general
responsible for customs and excise, or any successor thereto.
11. 
"Director General of Customs and Excise Regulation" means a regulation issued by the
Director General of Customs and Excise.
12. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Development Policy Financing", dated July 14, 2017.
13. 
"Head of INSW Portal Administrator" means the executive head responsible for the
administration of the INSW, or any successor thereto.
10 of 11 
LN8842
14. 
"INSW" or "Indonesia National Single Window" means the Borrower's national trade
facilitation system that enables single submission of data and information, single and
synchronous processing of data and information and single decision-making for custom
clearance and cargo release.
15. 
"INSW Portal Administrator" means Pengelola Portal INSW, the Borrower's unit responsible
for administering the INSW, or any successor thereto.
16. 
"Minister of Finance" means the Borrower's minister responsible for finance, or any successor
thereto.
17. 
"Minister of Finance Regulation" means a regulation issued by the Minister of Finance.
18. 
"Ministry of Health" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for health, or any successor
thereto.
19. 
"Minister of Transportation" means the Borrower's minister responsible for transportation, or
any successor thereto.
20. 
"Minister of Transportation Regulation" means a regulation issued by the Minister of
Transportation.
21. 
"Pelindo I" means PT Pelabuhan Indonesia I, a State-owned enterprise responsible for
managing public ports in twenty (20) locations in five Provinces (Nanggroe Aceh Darussalam,
North Sumatera, Riau, Riau Islands and Jambi).
22. 
"Pelindo II" means PT Pelabuhan Indonesia II, a State-owned enterprise responsible for
managing public ports in eighteen (18) locations in nine Provinces (Bengkulu, South Sumatera,
West Sumatera, Bangka Belitung, Lampung, DKI Jakarta, West Java, Banten and West
Kalimantan).
23. 
"Pelindo III" means PT Pelabuhan Indonesia III, a State-owned enterprise responsible for
managing public ports in forty-three (43) locations in seven Provinces (Central Java, East Java,
Bali, West Nusa Tenggara, East Nusa Tenggara, Central Kalimantan and South Kalimantan).
24. 
"Pelindo IV" means PT Pelabuhan Indonesia IV, a State-owned enterprise responsible for
managing public ports in twenty-six (26) locations in eleven Provinces (East Kalimantan,
North Kalimantan, North Sulawesi, Gorontalo, Central Sulawesi, South Sulawesi, Southeast
Sulawesi, Maluku, North Maluku, Papua and West Papua).
25. 
"Pelindos" means, collectively, Pelindo I, Pelindo II, Pelindo III and Pelindo IV.
26. 
"Port Authority" means Otoritas Pelabuhan, a Borrower's agency responsible for regulating,
managing, and supervising commercial port activities, or any successor thereto, and "Port
Authorities" means, collectively, all such agencies.
11 of 11 
LN8842
27. 
"Port Operator" means Badan Usaha Pelabuhan, a Borrower's business entity with specific
business areas related to port(s) and other port facilities, or any successor thereto, and "Port
Operators" means, collectively, all such entities.
28. 
"President" means the Borrower's head of State and head of executive.
29. 
"Presidential Regulation" means a regulation issued by the President.
30. 
"Program" means the program of objectives, policies, and actions set forth or referred to in the
letter dated February 27, 2018 from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in
support of the Program during its execution and comprising actions taken, including those set
forth in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and actions to be taken consistent with the
Program's objectives.
31. 
"Province" means an administrative division of the Borrower, and "Provinces" means,
collectively, all such Provinces.
32. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank signed
this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the date of the Loan
Agreement" in the General Conditions.
33. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
