OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8827-IQ
Loan Agreement
(Iraq Social Fund for Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF IRAQ
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8827-IQ
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between REPUBLIC OF IRAQ
("Borrower") 
and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of three hundred million
dollars ($300,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may
apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 1 and November 1 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
-2-
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through MOP in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its minister responsible for finance.
5.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower's address is:
Ministry of Finance
Hay Alaloom
Bab Al Mu'dham
Baghdad, Iraq; and
(b) 
the Borrower's electronic address is:
s.hadeethi(&mof.gov.iq
5.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) 
the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
E-mail:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
ysalem@worldbank.org
-3-
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
REPUBLIC OF IRAQ
By 
k
7 5
zo- 
Authorized Representative
Name: D.AC,6y 
-Lic(
Title: A 
3
Date: 
' 
c
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
"I , 
o
Title:
Date: 
rit'Z
-4-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to: (i) improve access to basic services and; (ii) to
increase short-term employment opportunities, in targeted communities.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. Financing Community Sub-projects
Implementation of Sub-projects, as elaborated in the approved Community Action Plans
to improve access of communities to basic services in Participating Governorates.
Part 2. Supporting Microfinance Systems Strengthening
Provision of support in establishing a micro and small enterprise program through
provision of technical assistance and capacity building activities for the micro and small
enterprise sector in the following:
(a) 
Enhancing Borrower's ability to regulate micro finance institutions ("MFI");
(b) 
Assisting in the review of the regulatory environment to enable MFIs to function
sustainably and without market distortions; and
(c) 
Developing a framework for structured financing to allow for flow of funds to
MFIs in a sustainable manner.
Part 3. Capacity Building and Institutional Development
Implementation of the following program of activities:
(a) 
Establishment and operationalization of the Project Management Office and
Project Management Teams at the central and the Participating Governorates'
levels and strengthening their capacities for day to day implementation,
supervision, management, monitoring and evaluation of Project activities and
results at the national level;
(b) 
Establishment and organizational development of a permanent Social Fund for
Development, including development of a robust communications function and
introduction of management information systems;
(c) 
Strengthening the capacities of the Participating Governorates for preparation,
implementation, supervision, management, monitoring and evaluation of Project
-5-
activities and results at their respective levels, including setting up grievance
redress mechanisms; and
(d) 
Facilitating the engagement 
and contributions of non-governmental 
and
community based organizations in Project activities in the Participating
Governorates, including social accountability, citizen engagement, proposal
development, and conducting appropriate social and economic assessments and
community mobilization.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements: MOP
The Borrower, through its Ministry of Planning ("MOP"), shall:
1. 
carry out the Project in accordance with the requirements, criteria, arrangements
and operational procedures set forth in the POM, and ESMF and shall not amend,
suspend, abrogate or waive any provisions of the POM or EMSF without prior
approval of the Bank;
2. 
maintain, throughout the period of implementation of the Project, a Project
Management Office ("PMO") with composition, terms of reference and resources
satisfactory to the Bank, and as set forth in the POM. 
The PMO shall be
responsible for, inter alia: coordination and facilitation of Project implementation
(including among the PMTs), and providing overall strategy, guidance, and
monitoring and evaluation for the Project;
3. 
cause the Supreme Committee for Poverty Reduction Strategy to provide strategic
guidance and monitor progress and implementation of the Project;
4. 
cause the Technical Committee for Poverty Reduction Strategy to provide day-to-
day coordination of the activities and implementation of the Project;
5. 
establish, by no later than 90 days of the Effective Date, and thereafter maintain
within each Participating Governorate throughout the period of implementation of
the Project, a Project Management Team ("PMT"), under the direction of qualified
management provided with sufficient resources, and staffed with competent
technical and other personnel in adequate numbers and with composition, terms of
reference and resources satisfactory to the Bank, as set forth in the POM. Each
PMT shall be responsible for, inter alia: identification of Project activities and
Subprojects at the local level; day to day implementation, supervision,
management, reporting, monitoring and evaluation of said Project activities and
results (including fiduciary and safeguards management); and
6. 
by no later than two years of the Effective Date, establish and maintain a Social
Fund for Development ("SFD") as a separate legal entity, in a form and with
functions and management satisfactory to the Bank, and having the capacity to
perform functions under the Project.
-7-
B. 
Project Operational Manual
1. 
The Borrower shall prepare and adopt a Project Operational Manual ("POM"), in
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, providing details of arrangements and
procedures for the implementation of the Project, including: (a) capacity building
activities for sustained achievement of the Project's objective; (b) procurement,
financial 
management 
and 
disbursement 
arrangements; 
(c) 
institutional
administration, coordination and day-to-day execution of Project activities;
(d) monitoring, evaluation, reporting, information, education and communication
arrangements of Project activities; and (e) such other administrative, financial,
technical and organizational arrangements and procedures as shall be required for
the Project.
2. 
The Borrower shall: (a) carry out the Project in accordance with the POM, and in
a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) not amend, revise or waive, nor allow
to be amended, revised, or waived, the provisions of the POM or any part thereof
without the prior written agreement of the Bank.
3. 
In the event of any inconsistency between the POM and this Agreement, the
provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
C. 
Sub-projects under Part 1 of the Project
1. 
The Borrower shall, through each PMT, facilitate the establishment of Community
Development Groups in each Participating Governorate, which will, with the
support of the PMT, prepare a Community Action Plan identifying development
priorities for each Participating Governorate, all in accordance with the criteria,
guidelines and detailed procedures set forth in the POM.
2. 
The Borrower shall, through each PMT, on the basis of an approved Community
Action Plan, review and approve Subproject proposals, and thereafter implement,
Subprojects under Part 1 of the Project, all in accordance with the criteria,
guidelines and detailed procedures set forth in the POM.
3. 
Each Subproject shall be eligible for financing upon the Borrower's determination,
on the basis of an appraisal conducted in accordance with the criteria, guidelines
and detailed procedures set forth in the POM, that the Subproject satisfies the
eligibility criteria specified in the POM, which criteria shall, inter alia, include the
following:
(a) 
the Subproject shall be appraised on the basis of technical, economic,
financial, environmental and social assessments and other guidelines
acceptable to the Bank (and be accompanied by appropriate Safeguards
Instruments, if required pursuant to the Safeguards Frameworks);
-8-
(b) 
the Subproject and the associated Safeguards Instruments, if any, shall be
approved by the Borrower and the Bank, unless with respect to the Bank's
approval, the Bank has notified the Borrower in writing that its prior
approval is not required;
(c) 
the Subproject shall be included in the Approved Community Action Plan;
(d) 
No Subproject shall be eligible for financing if it belongs to the negative
list of activities or sectors of activity deemed ineligible for support under
the Project and specified in the POM; and
(e) 
No Subproject shall be eligible for financing if it requires land acquisition
or resettlement, without first an RPF being prepared.
4. 
No proposed Subproject shall be eligible for financing unless the Borrower, shall
have determined, on the basis of an appraisal carried out in accordance with
guidelines satisfactory to the Bank and elaborated in the POM, that the proposed
Subproject has fulfilled the requirements of the POM and any applicable
Safeguards Instrument.
5. 
Without limitation on the foregoing, if, pursuant to the ESMF and/or RPF, one or
more Safeguards Instruments for the Subproject are required, such proposed
Subproject shall not be eligible for financing under the Project until such
Safeguards Instruments have been prepared and approved by the Bank and all
measures required to be carried out in accordance with Section I.D of this Schedule
prior to commencement of the activities covered by the Safeguards Instruments
have been carried out.
D. 
Environmental and Social Safeguards
1 .
The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with the Safeguards
Instruments, and shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provision
of any of the Safeguards Instruments, without the prior written approval of the
Bank and subject to compliance with applicable consultation and public disclosure
requirements of the Bank.
2. 
Without limitation upon the foregoing, the Borrower shall, no later than three (3)
months after the Effective Date, prepare and disclose in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank an Environmental and Social Management Framework and a
Resettlement Policy Framework, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that adequate information on the implementation of the
Safeguards Instruments is suitably included in the Project Reports referred to in
Section II.A of this Schedule, including details of: (a) measures taken in
furtherance of the Safeguards Instruments; (b) conditions, if any, which interfere
or threaten to interfere with the smooth implementation of the Safeguards
Instruments; and (c) remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address
such conditions.
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that: (a) all measures identified and described in the
Safeguards Instruments are taken in a timely manner, and (b) that the tender
documents and each contract for civil works to be carried out under the Project
include the obligation of the relevant contractor to comply with the relevant
Safeguards Instruments applicable to such civil works commissioned or awarded
pursuant to said contract.
5. 
Without limitation upon the foregoing, the Borrower shall:
(a) 
prior to commencing Minor Civil Works for any activity under the Project
to be carried out prior to the preparation of the ESMF in accordance with
Section D.2 of this Schedule: (i) when required under the ESAP, prepare,
adopt and disclose appropriate Simplified ESMP(s) in accordance with the
ESAP, such Simplified ESMP(s) to be in form and substance satisfactory
to the Bank; and (ii) when required under the Simplified ESMPs, carry out
specific public consultation in form and in substance satisfactory to the
Bank;
(b) 
prior to commencing civil works for any activity under the Project and
when required under the ESMF, prepare, adopt and disclose appropriate
ESIA(s) and/or ESMP(s), as applicable, in accordance with the ESMF,
such ESIA(s), and ESMP(s) to be in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank;
(c) 
prior to commencing civil works for any activity under the Project and
when required under the ESIAs, ESMPs, and the RAPs, carry out specific
public consultation in form and in substance satisfactory to the Bank; and
(d) 
prior to commencement of civil works for any activity of the Project
involving involuntary resettlement or involuntary acquisition of land,
prepare, adopt, disclose and implement appropriate RAP or RAPs, as the
case may be, for compensation or resettlement, in accordance with the
RPF, such RAP or RAPs to be in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank.
6. 
In the event that any provision of the Safeguards Instruments shall conflict with
any provision under this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
7. 
The Borrower shall: (a) by no later than three (3) months after the Effective Date,
establish, and thereafter maintain, throughout the period of implementation of the
Project, a Grievance Redress Mechanism, satisfactory to the Bank, for the
-10-
management of complaints related to the Project; and (b) ensure that adequate
measures, satisfactory to the Bank, are put in place to ensure that all aspects of
Project implementation are carried out in an inclusive, non-discriminatory and
participatory manner.
8. 
The Borrower shall ensure that all terms of reference for any technical assistance
and studies to be carried out under the Project are prepared in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank and taking into account appropriate environmental and
social safeguards measures.
9. 
The Borrower shall ensure that any area in which Subprojects under the Project
will be implemented has been cleared of Explosive Remnants of War and/or
Unexploded Ordinance(s), and to that end, prior to commencing civil works for
any activity under the Project, the Borrower shall provide a confirmation, in form
and substance satisfactory to the Bank, that the area in which such civil works will
be implemented has been declared safe and clear of Explosive Remnants of War
and/or Unexploded Ordinance(s).
Section II. 
Project Monitorin2 Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than one
month after the end of each calendar quarter, covering the calendar quarter.
Section III. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and
in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the
Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible
Expenditures; and (b) pay: (i) the Front-end Fee; and (ii) each Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar premium; in the amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the
percentage set forth against each Category of the following table:
-11-
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) 
Subprojects under Part 1 of the 
295,000,000 
100%
Project, and Goods,
Consulting Services, Non-
consulting Services, Training
and Operating Costs under
Parts 2 and 3 of the Project
(2) Unallocated 
4,250,000
(3) Front-end Fee 
750,000 
Amount payable
pursuant to Section 2.03
of this Agreement in
accordance with Section
3.01(b) of the General
Conditions
(4) Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Rate Collar premium 
Section 4.05 (c) of the
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
300,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the Signature Date.
2. 
The Closing Date is January 31, 2023.
-12-
SCHEDULE 3
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share").
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
On each May I and November 1, beginning May 1, 2023 
5%
through November 1, 2032
-13-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
3. 
"Community Action Plan" or "CAP" means a plan developed by a Community
Development Group, with the support of civil society organizations, which
identifies Subprojects within the Participating Governorate, based on local level
social and economic assessment of the local needs for basic services.
4. 
"Community Development Group" means a group selected through a transparent
process by the local community, to represent the local community in preparation
of the CAP and selection of Subprojects.
5. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project
Financing", dated July 14, 2017.
6. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the
environmental and social management framework to be prepared by the Borrower,
setting forth the modalities for environmental and social screening for the Project,
and outlining environmental and social implementation, mitigation and monitoring
measures and procedures, including procedures for the management of chance
finds of physical cultural resources, measures for selecting pesticides and the
preparation and implementation of ESIAs, ESMPs and PMP(s) if required; as such
ESMF may be amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the
Bank.
7. 
"Environmental 
and Social 
Management 
Plan" or "ESMP" means 
an
environmental and social management plan or a limited environmental and social
management plan to be prepared by the Borrower pursuant to the ESMF, in each
case setting forth appropriate mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures
designed to mitigate the potential adverse environmental and social impacts of a
proposed Project activity; and "ESMPs" means more than one such ESMP, as such
ESMPs may be amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the
Bank.
-14-
8. 
"Explosive Remnants of War" means explosive remnants of war, including but not
limited to, unexploded ordnance, improvised explosive devices and landmines.
9. 
"Environmental and Social Action Plan" or "ESAP" means an environmental and
social action plan, to be adopted by the Borrower, setting forth a time-bound bound
plan for the steps and the sequential planning and coordination of project activities
and the preparation by the Borrower of the Safeguards Instruments; as such plan
may be amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
10. 
"Grievance Redress Mechanism" means the system aimed to receive grievances
occurrence of which might be associated with the Project activities, the
establishment and implementation of which is to be carried out in accordance with
the terms set forth in the POM.
11. 
"Micro Financing Institution" or "MFI" means a microfinance institution.
12. 
"Ministry of Planning" or "MOP" means the Ministry of Planning of the Republic
of Iraq, or any successor thereto.
13. 
"Minor Civil Works" means small scale civil works with low environmental and
social impacts, required to effect minor repairs to roads, water distribution
networks, and electricity distribution networks.
14. 
"Operating Costs" means the incremental and reasonable costs incurred by the
MOP and the PMTs on account of Project implementation including costs for
communication; translation and interpretation; printing; advertising; office
supplies; banking charges; 
Project related travel (including per diems,
accommodation and transportation); vehicle rental and fuel; postal fees; Minor
Civil Works including mechanical and electrical works; for PMTs offices, and
other miscellaneous costs directly associated with Project implementation subject
to approval by the Bank, but excluding salaries and allowances of the Borrower's
civil servants or other regular government staff.
15. 
"Participating Governorates" means a governorate eligible to be participate in the
Project.
16. 
"Project Management Office" or "PMO" mean a Project management office to be
established by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions of Section I.A.2 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
17. 
"Project Management Team" means a team established by the Borrower within
each Participating Governorate pursuant to Section I.A.5 of Schedule 2 of this
Agreement and assigned to work on implementation of the Project, staffed by civil
servants and consultants who may be specifically retained to work on Project
implementation.
-15-
18. 
"Project Operational Manual" or "POM" means the manual, adopted by the
Borrower, pursuant to Section I.B of this Agreement and dated October 23, 2017,
satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth the operational and administrative
responsibilities, procedures and rules for the implementation of the Project, as the
same may be amended and supplemented from time to time with the Bank's prior
written approval.
19. 
"Procurement Regulations" means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for
Borrowers under Investment Project Financing", dated July 1, 2016.
20. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" or "RAP" means a resettlement action plan or
abbreviated resettlement action plan to be prepared by the Borrower pursuant to
the RPF, describing, for a proposed Project activity, the compensation and other
resettlement assistance to be provided, consultation to be conducted with Affected
Persons about acceptable alternatives, institutional responsibilities for the
implementation, 
procedures for grievance redress, and arrangements for
monitoring and evaluation; and "RAPs" means more than one such RAP, as such
RAPs may be amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the
Bank.
21. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the resettlement policy
framework to be prepared by the Borrower in accordance with Section I.D.2 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, setting forth the guidelines, procedures, timetables
and other specifications for the provision of compensation, rehabilitation and
resettlement assistance to Affected Persons, and for the preparation and
implementation of RAPs; as such RPF may be amended from time to time with the
prior written agreement of the Bank.
22. 
"Safeguards Instruments" means the following: ESIA, ESMF, ESMP, RAP and
RPF.
23. 
"Social Fund for Development" or "SFD" means social fund to be established
pursuant to Borrower's legislation under Part 3 of this Project.
24. 
"Subproject" means a specific development and income generating activity to be
carried out under Part 1 of the Project.
25. 
"Supreme Committee for Poverty Reduction Strategy" means the committee
established under Diwan Order No. 14 of 2011, or any successor thereto.
26. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the
date of the Loan Agreement" in the General Conditions.
-16-
27. 
"Technical Committee for Poverty Reduction Strategy" means the committee
established on November 24, 2009, based on the decision of the Council of
Ministers No. 409 of 2009, or any successor thereto.
28. 
"Training and Workshops" means the reasonable costs of training, seminars,
workshops, conferences and study tours, including: (a) the fees of training
institutions and courses; (b) domestic and international travel costs, lodging costs,
and subsistence/per diem allowances for both trainers and trainees; (c) the rental
of training facilities; and (d) preparation, purchase or reproduction of training
materials.
