OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8848-IQ
Loan Agreement
(Emergency Social Stabilization and Resilience Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF IRAQ
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8848-IQ
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between the REPUBLIC OF IRAQ
("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of two hundred million
Dollars (US$200,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may
apply following a Conversion, subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May I and November 1 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-2-
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its minister responsible for finance.
5.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower's address is:
Ministry of Finance
Hay Alaloom
Bab Al Mu'dham
Baghdad, Iraq; and
(b) 
the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
s.hadeethi(amof.gov.iq
5.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) 
the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
E-mail:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
ysalem@worldbank.org
64145(MCI)
-3-
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
REPUBLIC OF IRAQ
By
Authorized Representative
Name: Ki 
.tKcA,6.'Thc,
Title: A A 
.Q
4  
Likt 
of
Date: 
6 pve'
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
________
Title:
Date:_______
-4-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) increase livelihood opportunities in
liberated areas; (ii) increase access to psychosocial services in liberated areas; and
(iii) strengthen the systems to expand the provision of social safety nets.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Cash for Work, Social Support and Livelihood Opportunities
(a) 
(i) Implementation of a Cash for Work Program, consisting of specific labor-
intensive public works activities ("Subprojects") designed to increase access to
short term employment, create community assets, smooth consumption and
improve overall livelihoods of Beneficiaries in Targeted Areas and provision of
wages to Beneficiaries for carrying out said Subprojects ("Labor Payments"); and
(ii) provision of goods, works, consulting services, non-consulting services,
Operating Costs and Training for the purpose.
(b) 
(i) Scaling up provision of mental health and psychosocial support services to
returnees affected by conflict in Targeted Areas; (ii) strengthening the capacities
of sector agencies and sector professionals (such as healthcare providers, general
practitioners, social workers and community volunteers) for delivery of quality
mental health and psychosocial services through provision of targeted training; and
(iii) supporting policy dialogue for developing an appropriate strategy for
addressing post conflict mental health and psychosocial needs.
(c) 
(i) Provision of support to MOLSA to enhance and improve their existing
microfinance programs in areas of sustainable financial products, office systems,
and loan portfolio tracking; all through the provision of required goods, technical
assistance and Training; and (ii) provision of Microfinance to Microfinance
Beneficiaries to carry out income generating activities ("Business Subprojects").
Part 2: Resilient Social Safety Nets
(a) 
Establishing key building blocks of a resilient social safety net system, in
particular: (i) development and implementation of targeting and operational
systems (including, registration, database crosschecking, enrolment, conditionality
verification, case management and beneficiary data updates, payment delivery,
grievance redress, and performance monitoring); (ii) developing and maintaining
a registry of Beneficiaries; (iii) developing and implementing an integrated
management information system, including, among others, supply and installation
of appropriate information and communications technology, hardware, software,
-5-
internet connectivity and mobile technology support; and (iv) identification of a
payment system.
(b) 
Developing and implementing a comprehensive grievance redress mechanism.
(c) 
Strengthening the Borrower's capacity for implementing a conditional cash
transfer program including targeting and enrolment of beneficiaries, case
management, and monitoring and evaluation.
(d) 
Provision of goods, works, consulting services, non-consulting services and
Training for the above purposes.
Part 3: Project Management
(a) 
Strengthening the capacity of the Project Management Office for day to day
implementation, supervision, management and monitoring and evaluation of
Project activities and results, all through provision of consulting services, non-
consulting services, Training, Operating Costs and acquisition of goods for the
purpose.
(b) 
Development and implementation of a comprehensive Project specific information
and communications campaign.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs
1. 
The Borrower shall designate, at all times during the implementation of the Project,
the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs ("MOLSA") to be responsible for, inter
alia, overall coordination of the implementation of Project activities and provision
of strategic and policy guidance on matters relating to the Project.
2. 
To this end, MOLSA shall establish and thereafter maintain, throughout the period
of implementation of the Project, a Project Management Office ("PMO") with a
composition, terms of reference and resources satisfactory to the Bank. The PMO
shall be responsible for day to day implementation, supervision, management and
monitoring and evaluation of Project activities and results.
B. 
Project Operations Manual
1 .
The Borrower shall, no later than three (3) months after the Effective Date, prepare,
in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank:
(i) 
an operations manual, providing details of arrangements and procedures
for the implementation of the Project, including: (A) capacity building
activities 
for sustained 
achievement 
of the Project's 
objective;
(B) procurement, financial management and disbursement arrangements;
(C) institutional administration, coordination and day-to-day execution of
Project activities; (D) monitoring, evaluation, reporting, information,
education and communication arrangements of Project activities; and
(E) such other administrative, financial, technical and organizational
arrangements and procedures as shall be required for the Project;
(ii) 
a handbook for the Cash for Work Program, setting forth the detailed
policies and procedures for said program; and
(iii) 
detailed guidelines and procedures for provision of Microfinance for
Business Subprojects under the Project.
2. 
The Borrower shall afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower on said operations manual, and thereafter, shall adopt such
Project operations manual, as shall have been approved by the Bank ("Project
Operations Manual").
-7-
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
Project Operations Manual; provided, however, that in case of any conflict
between the provisions of the Project Operations Manual, on the one hand, and
those of this Agreement, on the other, the provisions of this Agreement shall
prevail.
4. 
The Borrower shall not amend or waive any provisions of the Project Operations
Manual without the prior written agreement of the Bank.
C. 
Subprojects under Part 1(a) of the Project: Cash for Work Program
1 .
Procedures and Eligibility Criteria. No Subproject under the Cash for Work
Program shall be eligible for financing under the Project, unless the Borrower has
determined, on the basis of an appraisal conducted in accordance with guidelines
acceptable to the Bank (including participation of the targeted communities), and
elaborated in the Project Operations Manual that the Subproject satisfies the
following requirements, and such further requirements as are elaborated in said
Project Operations Manual:
(a) 
the Subproject consists of labor-intensive activities to be carried out in
various sectors;
(b) 
if one or more Safeguard Instrument(s) is required for the Subproject, said
Safeguard Instrument(s) is (are) prepared in accordance with the
Safeguard Frameworks, approved and disclosed by the Bank; and
(c) 
an aggregate of eighty (80) percent of the total estimated cost of the
Subproject shall consist of Labor Payments to Beneficiaries under the
Subproject.
2. 
Term(s) and Condition(s) of Cashfor Work Program. The Borrower shall:
(a) 
ensure that each Beneficiary under the Cash for Work Program satisfies
the eligibility criteria and other terms and conditions set out in the Project
Operations Manual;
(b) 
retain one or more payment agents, with terms of reference, qualifications
and experience satisfactory to the Bank, to assist the Borrower in
administering payment of wages to Beneficiaries under the Subproject;
and
(c) 
monitor and evaluate, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
the implementation of the Cash for Work Program, so as to ensure that
payments for wages made under the Cash for Work Program are made
-8-
exclusively to Beneficiaries for productive purposes consistent with the
objectives of the Project.
D. 
Business Subprojects under Part 1(c)(ii) of the Project: Microfinance
1. 
The Borrower shall review each Business Subproject and administer each
Microfinance under Part 1(c)(ii) of the Project in accordance with the guidelines
and procedures set forth in the Project Operations Manual.
2. 
To this end, each Business Subproject shall be eligible for financing upon the
Borrower's determination, on the basis of an appraisal conducted in accordance
with the guidelines set forth in the Project Operations Manual, that the Business
Subproject is for eligible expenses and that the Microfinance Beneficiary satisfies
the eligibility criteria specified in the Project Operations Manual.
E. 
Safeguards
1 .
The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with the Safeguard
Instruments and shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provision
of any of the Safeguard Instruments, without the prior written approval of the Bank
and subject to compliance with applicable consultation and public disclosure
requirements of the Bank.
2. 
Without limitation upon the foregoing, the Borrower shall, no later than three (3)
months after the Effective Date, prepare and disclose in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank an Environmental and Social Management Framework ("ESMF") and a
Resettlement Policy Framework ("RPF"), in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that adequate information on the implementation of the
Safeguards Instruments is suitably included in the Project Reports referred to in
Section II of this Schedule, including details of: (a) measures taken in furtherance
of the Safeguards Instruments; (b) conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to
interfere with the smooth implementation of the Safeguards Instruments; and
(c) remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such conditions.
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that: (a) all measures identified and described in the
Safeguards Instruments are taken in a timely manner; and (b) that the tender
documents and each contract for civil works to be carried out under the Project
includes the obligation of the relevant contractor to comply with the relevant
Safeguards Instruments applicable to such civil works commissioned or awarded
pursuant to said contract.
-9-
5. 
Without limitation upon the foregoing, the Borrower shall:
(a) 
prior to commencing Minor Civil Works for any activity under the Project
to be carried out prior to the preparation of the ESMF in accordance with
part E.2 of this Section I: (i) when required under the ESAP, prepare, adopt
and disclose appropriate Simplified ESMP(s) in accordance with the
ESAP, such Simplified ESMP(s) to be in form and substance satisfactory
to the Bank; and (ii) when required under the Simplified ESMPs, carry out
specific public consultation in form and in substance satisfactory to the
Bank;
(b) 
prior to commencing Minor Civil Works for any activity under the Project
and when required under the ESMF, prepare, adopt and disclose
appropriate ESIA(s) and/or ESMP(s), as applicable, in accordance with
the ESMF, such ESIA(s), ESMP(s) to be in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank;
(c) 
prior to commencing Minor Civil Works for any activity under the Project
and when required under the ESIAs, ESMPs, and the RAPs carry out
specific public consultation in form and in substance satisfactory to the
Bank; and
(d) 
prior to commencement of Minor Civil Works for any activity of the
Project involving involuntary resettlement or involuntary acquisition of
land, prepare, adopt, disclose and implement appropriate RAP or RAPs,
as the case may be, for compensation or resettlement, in accordance with
the RPF, such RAP or RAPs to be in form and substance satisfactory to
the Bank.
6. 
In the event that any provision of the Safeguards Instruments shall conflict with
any provision under this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
7. 
The Borrower shall: (a) by no later than three (3) months after the Effective Date,
establish and thereafter maintain throughout the period of implementation of the
Project, a grievance redress mechanism, satisfactory to the Bank, for the
management of complaints related to the Project; and (b) ensure that adequate
measures, satisfactory to the Bank, are put in place to ensure that all aspects of
Project implementation are carried out in an inclusive, non-discriminatory and
participatory manner.
8. 
The Borrower shall ensure that all terms of reference for any technical assistance
and studies to be carried out under the Project are prepared in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank and taking into account appropriate environmental and
social safeguards measures.
-10-
9. 
The Borrower shall ensure that any area in which Minor Civil Works under the
Project will be implemented has been cleared of Explosive Remnants of War
and/or Unexploded Ordinance (s), and to that end, prior to commencing civil works
for any activity under the Project, the Borrower shall provide a confirmation, in
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, that the area in which such Minor
Civil Works will be implemented has been declared safe and clear of Explosive
Remnants of War and/or Unexploded Ordinance(s).
Section II. 
Proeect Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than forty-five (45)
days after the end of each calendar quarter, covering the calendar quarter.
Section III. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in
accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible Expenditures; and (b) pay:
(i) the Front-end Fee; and (ii) each Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar premium; in
the amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category
of the following table:
-11-
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) 
financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Labor Payments, Goods, Non- 
164,500,000 
100%
Consulting Services, Consulting
Services, Training and Operating
Costs for Subprojects under Part
1(a) of the Project.
(2) Goods, Minor Civil Works, Non- 
28,155,000 
100%
Consulting Services, Consulting
Services, Training and Operating
Costs under Part 1(b), Part 1(c)(i),
Part 2, and Part 3 of the Project.
(3) Microfinance for Business 
0 
100%
Subprojects under Part 1 (c)(ii) of
the Project.
(4) Unallocated 
6,845,000
(5) Front-end Fee 
500,000 
Amount 
payable
pursuant to Section
2.03 
of 
this
Agreement 
in
accordance 
with
Section 2.07(b) 
of
the 
General
Conditions
(6) Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Amount 
due
Collar premium 
pursuant to Section
4.05(c) 
of 
the
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
200,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the Signature Date; or
-12-
(b) 
Under category 3, until and unless MOLSA has put in place systems and
measures satisfactory to the Bank in accordance with the Project
Operations Manual, including but not limited to systems for loan portfolio
tracking and management information systems.
2. 
The Closing Date is April 30, 2021.
-13-
SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share").
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
On each May 1 and November 1, beginning May 1, 2023 
5%
through November 1, 2032.
-14-
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Affected Person" means a person who, on account of Project implementation, has
experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by:
(a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter;
(ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of
livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; or (b) the
involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected areas,
resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person; and "Affected
Persons" means, collectively, all such persons.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
3. 
"Beneficiary" means a household which is eligible to benefit under the Cash for
Work Program and is duly registered for the purpose; and "Beneficiaries" means,
collectively, two or more such households.
4. 
"Business Subproject" means a specific development and income generating
activity to be carried out by a Microfinance Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a
Microfinance under Part 1(c)(ii) of the Project, and "Business Subprojects" means,
collectively, two or more such activities.
5. 
"Cash for Work Program" means the program of specific development activities
to be implemented under Part 1(a)(i) of the Project.
6. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
7. 
"ESAP" means the environmental and social action plan, to be prepared by the
Borrower, setting forth a time-bound plan for the steps and the sequential planning
and coordination of project activities and the preparation by the Borrower of the
Safeguards Instruments; as such plan may be amended from time to time with the
prior written agreement of the Bank.
8. 
"ESIA" means an environmental and social impact assessment to be prepared by
the Borrower pursuant to the ESMF, in each case identifying and assessing the
potential environmental and social impacts of a proposed Project activity; and
"ESIAs" means more than one such ESIA, as such ESIAs may be amended from
time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
-15-
9. 
"ESMF" means the environmental and social management framework to be
prepared by the Borrower, setting forth the modalities for environmental and social
screening for the Project, and outlining environmental and social implementation,
mitigation and monitoring measures and procedures, including procedures for the
management of chance finds of physical cultural resources, and the preparation
and implementation of ESIAs and ESMPs; as such ESMF may be amended from
time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
10. 
"ESMP" means an environmental and social management plan to be prepared by
the Borrower pursuant to the ESMF, in each case setting forth appropriate
mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures designed to mitigate the
potential adverse environmental and social impacts of a proposed Project activity;
and "ESMPs" means more than one such ESMP, as such ESMPs may be amended
from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
11. 
"Explosive Remnants of War" means explosive remnants of war, including but not
limited to, unexploded ordnance, improvised explosive devices and landmines.
12. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project
Financing", dated July 14, 2017.
13. 
"Labor Payments" means the wages to be made to Beneficiaries for carrying out
Subprojects under the Cash for Work Program and referred to in Part 1(a)(i) of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
14. 
"Microfinance" means a loan and/or a grant made or proposed to be made by the
Borrower to a Microfinance Beneficiary under Part 1 (c)(ii) of the Project to carry
out Business Subprojects, in accordance with the provisions of the Project
Operations Manual.
15. 
"Microfinance Beneficiary" means a household which is eligible for a
Microfinance and is duly registered for the purpose; and "Microfinance
Beneficiaries" means, collectively, two or more such households or individuals.
16. 
"Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs" or "MOLSA" means the Borrower's
ministry responsible for labor and social affairs, and any successors thereto.
17. 
"Minor Civil Works" means small scale civil works with low environmental and
social impacts, required to effect minor repairs to roads, water distribution
networks, and electricity distribution networks, and meeting the eligibility criteria
for minor civil works set forth in the ESAP.
18. 
"Operating Costs" means the reasonable costs incurred by the PMO on account of
Project implementation including costs for communication; translation and
-16-
interpretation; printing; advertising; office supplies; banking charges; Project
related travel (including per diems, accommodation and transportation); vehicle
rental and fuel; postal fees; and other miscellaneous costs directly associated with
Project implementation subject to approval by the Bank, but excluding salaries and
allowances of the Borrower's civil servants or other regular government staff.
19. 
"Procurement Regulations" means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for
Borrowers under Investment Project Financing", dated July 1, 2016, revised in
November 2017.
20. 
"Project Management Office" or "PMO" means a Project management office to be
established by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions of Section I.A.2 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
21. 
"Project Operations Manual" means the Project operations manual, to be prepared
and adopted by the Borrower pursuant to Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
22. 
"Safeguard Frameworks" means the ESMF and RPF.
23. 
"Safeguard Instrument" means one of the following: ESIA, ESMF, ESMP, RAP
and RPF as the context may require, and "Safeguard Instruments" means,
collectively, two or more of the listed instruments.
24. 
"Simplified ESMP" means a simplified environmental and social management
plan to be prepared by the Borrower pursuant to the ESAP, in each case setting
forth appropriate mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures designed to
mitigate the potential adverse environmental and social impacts of proposed Minor
Civil Works; and "Simplified ESMPs" means more than one such Simplified
ESMP, as such Simplified ESMPs may be amended from time to time with the
prior written agreement of the Bank.
25. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the
date of the Loan Agreement" in the General Conditions.
26. 
"Subproject" means a specific development activity to be carried out under the
Cash for Work Program.
27. 
"Targeted Areas" means all governorates and local communities as agreed by the
Borrower and the Bank and indicated in the Project Operations Manual.
28. 
"Training" means the reasonable costs of training, seminars, workshops,
conferences and study tours, including: (a) the fees of training institutions and
courses; (b) domestic and international travel costs, lodging costs, and
-17-
subsistence/per diem allowances for both trainers and trainees; (c) the rental of
training facilities; and (d) preparation, purchase or reproduction of training
materials.
