OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8868-BO
Loan Agreement
(Health Service Delivery Network Project)
between
PLURINATIONAL STATE OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between the PLURINATIONAL STATE
OF BOLIVIA ("Borrower") and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of two hundred and fifty-two million
Dollars (USD 252,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through
a Currency Conversion ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1
to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Fixed Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall: (a) cause AISEM to carry out Part 1 and part of Part 3 of the Project, in
coordination with the MOH; and (b) carry out Part 2 and part of Part 3 of the Project
through UGESPRO PIU, all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) the National Hospital Plan 2016-2020 has been amended, suspended or abrogated so
as to affect, materially and adversely, the execution of the Project; and
(b) Decree 3364 has been amended, suspended or abrogated so as to affect, materially and
adversely, the execution of the Project.
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following:
The events specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occur and are continuing for a
period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the
Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) The AISEM Operational Manual has been adopted by AISEM in a manner acceptable
to the Bank.
(b) The Financing Agreement has been signed and delivered and all conditions precedent
to its effectiveness (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement) have been fulfilled.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the
Signature Date.
ARTICLE VI- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Development Planning.
6.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower's address is:
Ministerio de Planificaci6n del Desarrollo
Avenida Mariscal Santa Cruz 1092
Edificio Ex-Comibol
La Paz, Bolivia
and
3
(b) the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
E-mail:
despacho.min(iaiplanificacion.gob.bo
6.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
PLURINATIONAL STATE OF BOLIVIA
By___________ 
__
Autho 
ed Representative
Name: 4, V i Av~ 
t0~j el-P, I o y 9A
Title: 4 I e 
lin
Date: 
/ 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION 
D DEVELOPMENT
By,/" AuthoAzed Representative
Name: 
kt-Sl) *ND &vz
Title: C-w T -
Date: 
k-- --
4
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve access to, and quality of, health service delivery
in Selected Health Networks.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Strengthening Health Service Delivery Networks.
Provision of: (a) support for the execution and supervision of Turn-key Contracts for Selected New
Hospitals; and (b) technical assistance, design and carrying out of works, installation of medical
and non-medical equipment and related maintenance and operation training, and carrying out of
supervision activities for the Selected Health Networks, including rehabilitation or expansion of
existing health facilities (health posts and Primary Health Care Centers) and construction of new
Primary Health Care Centers.
Part 2: Improving Quality of Health Service Delivery and Human Resource Capacity
Development.
Provision of support for human resources capacity development, as well as the development and
implementation of tools and standards of practice for the management of Selected Health Networks.
Part 2.1: Training medical specialists, other professionals and critical personneL
Provision of support to reduce the existing gaps of medical specialists, nurses and other health
professionals, including, inter alia:
(a) 
Provision of long term training for health professionals through residency programs in
other countries.
(b) 
Provision of support to increase the national capacity of medical residency programs
through arrangements with Strategic Partners to support and expand the modernization and
scale-up of the Borrower's medical education programs.
(c) 
Provision of short term training for health professionals.
(d) 
Provision of training for health workers on indigenous cultural aspects.
(e) 
Provision of medical education materials and medical training equipment to support the
residency programs referred to in (b).
5
Part 2.2: Developing, updating and dissemination of national clinical care standards and
other governance related regulations.
(a) 
Provision of technical assistance and training on developing, updating and design of tools
for dissemination, and use of a database of evidence-based clinical practice guidelines.
(b) 
Carry out of a patient satisfaction survey.
Part 2.3: Supporting the link between the SNIS and the Selected New Hospitals' information
systems.
(a) 
Development of an interface between the SNIS and the Selected New Hospitals
information systems, including the provision of technical assistance, training and
acquisition of basic information technology (IT) equipment required thereof.
(b) 
Update the SNIS by adopting international standards (for example HL7), including the
provision of technical assistance and acquisition of equipment required therefor.
(c) 
Carry out studies on maternal mortality and other relevant studies for prevalent public
health related issues.
Part 3: Project Management.
Provision of support to AISEM and UGESPRO PIU for Project management and implementation,
including Operating Costs, the acquisition of equipment and the provision of technical assistance
in the areas of contract management, procurement, financial management, technical and monitoring
and evaluation (including Project audits).
6
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements.
1. 
The Borrower shall cause AISEM to:
(a) 
maintain, throughout Project implementation, a structure, with functions and
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, as set forth in the AISEM Operational
Manual, including inter alia, the responsibility to implement, monitor and
supervise the carrying out of Parts 1 and 3 of the Project (including its financial,
procurement and safeguard aspects); and
(b) 
be headed by a General Director, and staffed with adequate professional, fiduciary,
administrative and technical personnel (including social and environmental
specialists), all with qualifications, experience and terms of employment
acceptable to the Bank, as set forth in the AISEM Operational Manual.
2. 
The Borrower, through MOH, shall:
(a) 
establish, and thereafter operate and maintain, throughout Project implementation,
a unit within MOH (UGESPRO PIU), with structure and responsibilities
acceptable to the Bank, as set forth in the Operational Manual, including inter alia,
the responsibility to implement, monitor and supervise the carrying out of Parts 2
and 3 of the Project (including its financial, procurement and safeguard aspects);
(b) 
ensure that the UGESPRO PIU is staffed with adequate professional, fiduciary,
administrative and technical personnel (including social and environmental
specialists), all with qualifications, experience and terms of employment
acceptable to the Bank, as set forth in the Operational Manual; and
(c) 
not later than a hundred and twenty (120) days after Effective Date, ensure that a
procurement specialist, financial management specialist and a disbursement
specialist are hired to work full time within the UGESPRO PIU, all under terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank.
B. 
Operational Manuals.
1. 
The Borrower, through UGESPRO PIU shall, and shall cause AISEM to, carry out the
Parts of the Project under their respective responsibility in accordance with the Operational
Manual and the AISEM Operational Manual (the Operational Manuals), which shall
include, inter alia: (a) the budgeting, accounting, auditing, reporting, financial,
procurement and disbursement procedures of their respective Parts of the Project; (b) a list
of the Selected New Hospitals and the Selected Health Networks and the eligibility criteria
and procedures for their selection; (c) the organizational structure for implementation of
the Project, including the terms of reference and functions of the AISEM and UGESPRO
7
PIU staff and the procedures to hire additional staff; (d) the Project indicators for the
monitoring and evaluation of the Project; and (e) the Safeguard Documents.
2. 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manuals and those of this
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
C. 
Safeguards.
1. 
The Borrower through UGESPRO PIU shall, and shall cause AISEM to:
(a) 
implement the Project in accordance with the EIA (including the ESMPs), the
ESMF (including the SMF) and the RPF;
(b) 
comply with the procedures detailed in said ESMF and RPF for environmental
screening and social assessment, evaluation, implementation and monitoring of the
Project, including the procedures for the preparation of ESMP, and resettlement
action plans, if applicable; and
(c) 
if applicable, implement and/or cause to be implemented, the pertinent ESMP, and
resettlement action plans, if applicable, all in accordance with their terms and in a
manner acceptable to the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower through UGESPRO PIU shall, and shall cause AISEM to ensure that all
bidding documents and contracts for civil works under the Project include the obligation
of the relevant contractors and subcontractors to: (a) comply with the obligations under the
relevant Safeguard Documents; (b) adopt and implement measures to assess and manage
the risks and impacts of labor influx and workers' camps; and (c) adopt and enforce code
of conducts that should be provided to and signed by all workers; all in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank and as applicable to such civil works commissioned or carried out
pursuant to said contracts.
3. 
The Borrower through UGESPRO PIU shall, and shall cause AISEM to ensure that the
terms of reference for any consultancies related to the technical assistance provided under
the Project, shall be acceptable to the Bank and, to that end, such terms of reference shall
require that the advice conveyed through such technical assistance be consistent with the
requirements of the Bank's Safeguard Policies.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reportin2 and Evaluation
The Borrower, through the MOH shall and shall cause AISEM to, furnish to the Bank the Project
Reports not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, covering the
calendar semester.
Section HI. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in
accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may
8
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible Expenditures; and (b) pay: (i)
the Front-end Fee; and (ii) each Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar premium; in the
amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category of
the following table:
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) 
Goods, 
works, 
non-
consulting services, Training 
195,000,000 
100%
and consulting services for
Part 1 of the Project
(2) Training and consulting
services for Part 2 of the 
49,000,000 
100%
Project
(3) 
Goods, 
Training,
Operating 
Costs 
and 
4,685,000 
100%
consulting services for Project
activities 
under 
the
responsibility of AISEM in
respect of Part 3 of the Project
(4) 
Goods, 
Training,
Operating 
Costs 
and 
2,685,000 
100%
consulting services for Project
activities 
under 
the
responsibility of UGESPRO
PIU in respect of Part 3 of the
Project
(5) Front-end Fee 
630,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 
2.03 
of 
this
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions
(6) 
Interest Rate Cap or 
Amount 
due 
pursuant 
to
Interest Rate Collar premium 
0 
Section 4.05 (c) of the General
Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
252,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 may be made for payments made prior
to this date but on or after March 1, 2018, for Eligible Expenditures under Category
(1) and (3).
9
(b) 
under Categories (2) and (4) unless: (i) the UGESPRO PIU is created in a manner
acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) the Operational Manual is adopted by the
Borrower, through the MOH, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
2. 
The Closing Date is July 31, 2023.
10
SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule
Customized Amortization Repayment Schedule
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan as follows:
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
April 15, 2032 
1.58730%
October 15, 2032 
1.58730%
April 15, 2033 
3.76984%
October 15, 2033 
3.76984%
April 15, 2034 
4.16667%
October 15, 2034 
4.16667%
April 15, 2035 
0.00%
October 15, 2035 
0.00%
April 15, 2036 
4.76190%
October 15, 2036 
4.76190%
April 15, 2037 
5.95238%
October 15, 2037 
5.95238%
April 15, 2038 
6.74603%
October 15, 2038 
6.74603%
April 15, 2039 
7.14286%
October 15, 2039 
7.14286%
April 15, 2040 
7.73810%
October 15, 2040 
7.73810%
April 15, 2041 
8.13492%
October 15, 2041 
8.13492%
11. 
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"AISEM" means Agencia de Infraestructura en Salud y Equipamiento Midico, the
Borrower's Agency for Health Infrastructure and Medical Equipment created by the
Borrower's Decree (Decreto Supremo) No. 3293, dated August 24, 2017.
2. 
"AISEM Operational Manual" means the manual prepared by AISEM and acceptable to
the Bank, referred to in Section I.B. 1. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may
be amended from time to time with the prior written approval of the Bank.
3. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption
in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006
and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
4. 
"Bank's Safeguards Policies" means the Bank operational policies and procedures set forth
in the Bank's Operational Manual under OPs/BPs 4.01, 4.04, 4.36, 4.09, 4.11, 4.10, 4.12,
and 4.37, as said manual is published under www.WorldBank.org/opmanual.
5. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
6. 
"Decree 3364" means the Borrower Supreme Decree (Decreto Supremo) No. 3364, dated
October 18, 2017, and published in the Borrower's Official Gazette of October 18, 2017,
which determines the obligations of all public entities that participate in the process of
transfer of external resources from credit or grant agreements entered into with the
Borrower, including the obligation of the implementing entities to execute the relevant
projects in accordance with the provisions of the pertinent loan or financing agreements.
7. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the Borrower's
framework, acceptable to the Bank, published and available to the public on the MOH
website on March 16, 2018 and on the Bank's Operations Portal on March 30, 2018, which
contains the environmental protection measures in respect of the Selected New Hospitals to
be constructed in the Level Three Hospital in La Paz and one Level Two Hospital in
Caranavi under Part 1 of the Project, including, inter alia: (a) measures for chance findings
of cultural property; (b) guidelines for the identification of existing environmental
conditions and potential direct and indirect environmental impacts resulting from the
carrying out of the Project; (c) guidelines for the carrying out of environmental assessments
and the preparation of environmental management plans, when applicable; (d) the
recommendation of mitigation measures for each negative environmental impact
identified; (e) measures for enhancing each identified positive environmental impact; and
(f) the Social Management Framework, as said framework may be amended from time to
time with the prior agreement of the Bank.
8. 
"Environmental and Social Management Plan" or "ESMP" means: (a) each of the
following Plan of Application and Environmental Monitoring/Prevention and Mitigation
Program (PASA/PPM) for the Selected New Hospitals to be constructed in: Quillacollo
and Puerto Villaroel (Cochabamba), San Julian, La Guardia, San Ignacio de Velasco and
12
Warnes (Santa Cruz), San Ramon (Beni) and Uncia (Potosi), under Part 1 of the Project
dated March 16, 2018, prepared by the Borrower and included in the EIA, as such plans
may be amended from time to time with the prior approval of the Bank. Each plan shall
include, inter alia: (i) specific activities, budget and responsibilities to ensure the
implementation of measures to avoid, minimize and/or mitigate potential direct and
indirect environmental impacts associated with the applicable Part of the Project; (ii)
measures for the protection of natural habitats; and (iii) procedures for the screening of any
physical cultural resources in the Project area and incorporating "chance find" procedures
in the event that culturally significant resources are discovered during Project
implementation; and (b) any future plan to be prepared according to the ESMF for a
Selected New Hospital to be constructed under Part 1 of the Project.
9. 
"Environmental Impact Assessment" or "EIA" means the environmental assessment
prepared by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank, published and available to the public
on the MOH website on March 16, 2018 and on Bank's Operations Portal on March 30,
2018, which assessment evaluates the likely positive and negative environmental impact
of Project activities, updated or supplemented from time to time with the prior written
concurrence from the Bank.
10. 
"Financing Agreement" means the agreement between the Borrower and the Bank for the
Project, of the same date as this Agreement, as such agreement may be amended from time
to time. "Financing Agreement" includes all appendices, schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Financing Agreement.
11. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing", dated July 14,
2017.
12. 
"HL7" means Health Level 7, a set of international standards for transfer of clinical and
administrative data between software applications used by various healthcare providers.
13. 
"Level Three Hospital" means hospitals that provide differentiated services that require
high level technology and include all medical specialties and sub-specialties and can also
host full medical residency programs.
14. 
"Level Two Hospital" means hospitals that provide differentiated services, with medium
level technology, including the following specialties: internal medicine, pediatrics, general
surgery, obstetrics/gynecology and anesthesiology; that may also include other specialties
based on the local epidemiological profile; and can also host full medical residency
programs.
15. 
"MOH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health, or any of its successor or successors
thereto, acceptable to the Bank.
16. 
"National Hospital Plan 2016-2020" means the Borrower's plan to create new hospital
infrastructure to replace outdated health facilities and fill existing gaps in access to
secondary 
and 
tertiary 
hospitals 
published 
in
www.planificacion.gob.bo/uploads/PDES INGLES.pdf.
13
17. 
"Operating Costs" means reasonable recurrent expenditures (none of which would have
been encountered absent the Project), incurred by AISEM and the UGESPRO PIU for the
implementation, coordination and supervision of the Project, including, inter alia, travel
costs (i.e. accommodation, transportation and per-diem); operation and maintenance of
office equipment; vehicle rental, operation, insurance and maintenance costs; rental of
offices; utilities; non-durable and/or consumable office materials; communication, printing
and publications; and salaries of support staff working for the Project, all as determined by
the Bank.
18. 
"Operational Manual" means the manual prepared by the Borrower, through UGESPRO
PIU and the MOH, and acceptable to the Bank, referred to in Section I.B. 1. of Schedule 2
to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior written
approval of the Bank.
19. 
"Operational Manuals" means the AISEM Operational Manual and the Operational
Manual.
20. 
"Primary Health Care Center" means any facility in which the first-contact (entrance to the
health system) should take place, the services are undifferentiated (no specialists) provided
by general practitioners, nurses and community health workers mainly through ambulatory
services.
21. 
"Procurement Regulations" means, for purposes of paragraph 87 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF Borrowers", dated
July 2016, revised November 2017.
22. 
"Resettlement" means the impact of an involuntary taking of land under the Project, which
taking causes affected persons to have their: (a) standard of living adversely affected; or
(b) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and grazing
land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or
permanently; or (c) access to productive assets adversely affected, temporarily or
permanently; or (d) business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely
affected, temporarily or permanently.
23. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the Borrower's framework acceptable
to the Bank, published and available to the public on the MOH website on March 16, 2018
and on Bank's Operations Portal on March 30, 2018 as adopted by the Borrower, which
sets forth, inter alia, the principles and objectives governing Resettlement preparation and
implementation, and a description of the process for preparing and approving resettlement
plans, as said framework may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the
Bank.
24. 
"Safeguards Documents" means collectively the EIA (including the ESMPs), the ESMF
(including the SMF), and the RPF.
25. 
"Selected Health Networks" means the ten networks identified by the Borrower as
intervention areas under Part 1 of the Project, namely: Southern La Paz, Caranavi,
Quillacollo, Puerto Villaroel, La Guardia, San Julian, San Ignacio de Velasco, Warnes, San
Ramon, and Uncia.
14
26. 
"Selected New Hospitals" means the following hospitals to be constructed under Part I of
the Project: (i) one Level Three Hospital in La Paz; and (ii) nine Level Two Hospitals in
Caranavi (La Paz), Quillacollo and Puerto Villaroel (Cochabamba), San Julian, La Guardia,
San Ignacio de Velasco and Warnes (Santa Cruz), San Ramon (Beni) and Uncia (Potosi).
27. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the date of the Loan
Agreement" in the General Conditions.
28. 
"SNIS" means Sistema Nacional de Informaci6n en Salud, the Borrower's national health
information system.
29. 
"Social Management Framework" means the Borrower's social framework, acceptable to
the Bank and included in the ESMF, which contains specific measures to strengthen social
benefits of the Project with an intercultural approach given the majority of the Project's
beneficiaries are indigenous peoples, including specific measures to be included in the
ESMPs, as said framework may be amended from time to time with the prior agreement of
the Bank.
30. 
"Strategic Partners" means leading academic centers and well known medical residency
programs in other countries that will support the expansion and strengthening of the
Borrower's medical residency programs by providing technical assistance, tools, training
and tutoring services.
31. 
"Training" means expenditures (other than those for consulting' services) incurred by the
Borrower, through UGESPRO PIU and AISEM in connection with the carrying out of
seminars, workshops, including the reasonable travel costs (i.e. accommodation,
transportation and per-diem, inter alia) of trainees and trainers (if applicable), training
registration fees, catering, rental of training facilities and equipment, logistics and printing
services, as well as training materials for the purposes of and directly related to the
activities described in the Project.
32. 
"Turn-key Contracts" means a single responsibility contract based on a lump-sum price
under which payments are made as per contractual milestones when they are met and under
which the contractor is responsible for the design, engineering, construction provision of
equipment, training and follow-up to ensure that the facility is fully operational, at the
agreed price and by a fixed date.
33. 
"UGESPRO PIU" means the unit within MOH referred to in Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2
to this Agreement, or any successor thereto, acceptable to the Bank.
