OFFiCIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8838-LB
CFF TF NUMBER TF0A7880
Loan Agreement
(Greater Beirut Public Transport Project)
between
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8838-LB
CFF TF NUMBER TF0A7880
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between LEBANESE REPUBLIC
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank").
WHEREAS (A) following an international effort to provide development support to
countries most affected by refugees in the Middle East region; and having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project aimed, in part, at creating short-term jobs for Lebanese and
Syrians, as further described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, the Borrower has requested the Bank
to extend a loan to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B) funding from the Concessional Financing Facility was received by the Bank for
purposes of providing concessionality to this Agreement; and
(C) under the terms of a Financial Procedures Arrangement with the Trustee of the
Concessional Financing Facility dated August 10, 2016, the Bank has agreed to provide additional
funds to the Borrower (the Concessional Portion of the Loan as defined in the Appendix to this
Agreement) as part of an integrated lending operation under the terms of this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to extend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, a Loan on concessional terms in the amount of two hundred ninety-
five million United States Dollars (US$295,000,000) ("Loan") to assist in financing the
Project described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project") consisting of the following:
(a) 
a non-concessional portion of the Loan in an amount of two hundred twenty-five
million two hundred thousand United States Dollars (US$225,200,000), as such
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion
("Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan"); and
-2-
(b) 
a concessional portion of the Loan in an amount of sixty-nine million eight hundred
thousand United States Dollars (US$69,800,000) ("Concessional Portion of the
Loan").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the
Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan.
2.04. 
(a) 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Balance of the Non-
Concessional Portion of the Loan.
(b) 
The Commitment Charge shall not be applied to the Concessional Portion of the
Loan.
2.05. 
(a) 
The interest rate payable by the Borrower is the Reference Rate plus the Fixed
Spread or such rate as may apply following a Conversion; subject to Section
3.02(e) of the General Conditions.
(b) 
The Concessional Portion of the Loan shall be made on a grant basis. The interest
rate shall not be applied to the Concessional Portion of the Loan.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan shall be repaid in
accordance with Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end, the Borrower
shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Council for Development and Reconstruction
("Project Implementing Entity" or "PIE") in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions, Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
The RPTA Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the RPTA to perform
any of its obligations under Parts 1 (c), 1 (d), and 2 (b) of the Project.
(b) 
The PPP Law has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as
to affect materially and adversely the ability of a Private-Sector Operator to
perform any of its obligations under Parts 1 (c), 1 (d), and 2 (b) of the Project as
described in the Partnership Agreement.
-3-
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists, of the following, namely, that the event
specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is
continuing for a period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given by the
Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred eighty (180) days after the Signature
Date.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its minister responsible for finance.
6.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower's address is:
Ministry of Finance
Riad El-Solh Square
Beirut
Lebanese Republic; and
(b) the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile:
961-1-642-762
6.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions, the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
-4-
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
By 
L
Authorized Representative
Name: fLT. 
"AS& A &A YA LI 
L
Title: 
TTJS'E 
O 
AN C6
Date:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name:SARoT K -M1-sZ.. 
rA
Title: 
&SIONAU 
.
('zTOA
Date: 
2
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve the speed, quality, and accessibility of public
transport for passengers in Greater Beirut and at the city of Beirut's northern entrance.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. BRT Infrastructure, Fleet, and Systems
(a) 
Detailed design, construction, and management of BRT road infrastructure on sections of
the Northern Highway and outer ring road of Beirut, including stations, terminals, bus
depots, park-and-ride facilities, intersections, pedestrian crossings, pedestrian bridges, and
corridor traffic management systems.
(b) 
Widening of key sections of the Northern Highway, establishment of select park-and-ride
facilities, and construction of a terminal in Tabarja, including acquisition of land for such
purpose.
(c) 
Acquisition and operationalization of a BRT bus fleet and the maintenance of associated
infrastructure through a public-private partnership.
(d) 
Installation of ITS and fare-collection systems incorporating smart-card and GPS
technologies through a public-private partnership.
Part 2. Feeder and Regular Bus Services and Integration in Urban Environment
(a) 
Detailed design, construction, and management of bus stops and shelters, a control center,
bus depots, and related street facilities such as drainage and signage.
(b) 
Acquisition and operationalization of a feeder and regular road bus fleet incorporating
smart-card and GPS technologies and appropriate telematic systems through a public-
private partnership and / or other arrangements.
(c) 
Integration of BRT into the urban environment, including development of a non-motorized
transport plan, a road safety plan, and an urban transport master plan, and carrying out of
fare 
integration, 
parking 
management, 
public 
transport 
network 
restructuring,
professionalization of local operators, and simplification of license-issuance procedures.
Part 3. Capacity Building and Project Management
(a) 
Strengthening the capacity of the PIE for Project implementation, supervision, and
management (including monitoring and evaluation).
-6-
(b) 
Strengthening the capacity of RPTA and other relevant entities for supervision of BRT and
feeder operations.
(c) 
Development and implementation of an information, education, and communications
campaign to promote public transportation, and integration of existing operators into the
new system with a focus on, among other matters, improved regulations and permit and
licensing management, alternative enforcement measures, and better user information
systems.
(d) 
Improvement of planning and implementation of public transport, and determination of the
feasibility of private-sector investments in the sector.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arraneements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
PIE
The Borrower shall designate, at all times during the implementation of the Project, the
PIE to be responsible for implementation of Project activities, and shall take all actions,
including the provision of funding, personnel, and other resources, necessary to enable the
PIE to perform this function.
2. 
RPTA
The Borrower shall designate, at all times during the implementation of the Project, the
RPTA to be responsible for supervision of the Private-Sector Operator(s), and shall take
all actions, including the provision of funding, personnel, and other resources, necessary
to enable the RPTA to perform this function.
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement
1 .
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the
Loan available to the PIE under a subsidiary agreement between the Borrower and the PIE,
under terms and conditions approved by the Bank ("Subsidiary Agreement").
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as
to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions.
C. 
Project Implementation Manual
1 .
The Borrower shall, not later than one (1) month after the Effective Date, cause the PIE to
prepare, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the
Bank for review, a Project implementation manual, which shall include provisions on the
following matters: (i) capacity-building activities for sustained achievement of the
Project's objective; (ii) arrangements on financial management, setting forth the detailed
policies and procedures for financial management under the Project; (iii) procurement
management procedures; (iv) institutional administration, coordination, and day-to-day
execution of Project activities, including the respective roles and responsibilities of the
PIE, RPTA, and any other entity involved in Project implementation; (v) monitoring and
evaluation; (vi) reporting; (vii) information, education, and communication of Project
activities; (viii) guidelines for assessing potential environmental and social impacts of the
Project and designing appropriate mitigation, management, and monitoring measures in
-8-
respect of such impacts; (ix) arrangements for the public-private partnership(s) foreseen
for implementation of Parts 1 (c), 1 (d), and 2 (b) of the Project; and (x) such other technical
and organizational arrangements and procedures as shall be required for the Project.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the PIE to afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the PIE on said Project implementation manual, and thereafter, adopt such
Project implementation manual as shall have been approved by the Bank ("Project
Implementation Manual" or "PIM").
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the PIE to ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance
with the PIM; provided, however, that in case of any conflict between the provisions of the
PIM and the provisions of this Agreement or the Project Agreement, the provisions of this
Agreement or the Project Agreement, as the case may be, shall prevail. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the PIE does not amend, abrogate or
waive any provision of the PIM.
D. 
Annual Work Plans and Budgets
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the PIE to prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later than
October 31 of each Fiscal Year during the implementation of the Project, a work plan and
budget setting forth all activities proposed to be included in the Project during the following
Fiscal Year (including Safeguards Instruments applicable to said activities), and a proposed
financing plan for expenditures required for said activities, setting forth the proposed
amounts and sources of financing.
2. 
Each such proposed work plan and budget shall specify any Training activities that may be
required under the Project, including: (i) the type of Training; (ii) the purpose of the
Training; (iii) the personnel to be trained; (iv) the institution or individual who will conduct
the Training; (v) the location and duration of the Training; and (vi) the cost of the Training.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the PIE to afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the PIE on each such proposed work plan and budget and thereafter ensure that
the Project is implemented with due diligence during said following Fiscal Year in
accordance with such work plan and budget as shall have been approved by the Bank
("Annual Work Plan and Budget").
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the PIE does not make, or permit to be made, any change
to the approved Annual Work Plan and Budget without the prior written approval of the
Bank.
E. 
Parts 1 (c), 1 (d), and 2 (b) of the Project
1. 
In order to facilitate the carrying out of Parts 1 (c), 1 (d), and 2 (b) of the Project, as the
case may be, the Borrower shall, not later than eighteen (18) months after the Effective
Date, cause the PIE to appoint (a) transaction advisor(s) in accordance with the provisions
of Section 5.13 of the General Conditions for purposes of provision of advisory services in
-9-
relation to the financing and structuring of activities under said Parts 1 (c), 1 (d), and 2 (b)
of the Project, as the case may be.
2. 
(a) 
In order to facilitate the carrying out of Parts 1 (c), 1 (d), and 2 (b) of the Project,
as the case may be, the Borrower shall, not later than thirty-six (36) months after
the Effective Date (or such other date as the Bank has confirmed in writing to the
PIE as reasonable and acceptable under the circumstances), cause the PIE to enter
into (an) operator's contract(s) with (a) Private-Sector Operator(s) in accordance
with the provisions of the PPP Law and Section 5.13 of the General Conditions
under terms and conditions approved by the Bank for such purpose ("Partnership
Agreement(s)").
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause the PIE to exercise its rights under the Partnership
Agreement(s) in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of said Parts 1 (c), 1 (d), and 2 (b) of the
Project. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower shall
ensure that the PIE does not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be
assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived, the Partnership Agreement(s) or any of
its(their) provisions.
F. 
Safeguards
1 .
The Borrower shall cause the PIE and the RPTA to ensure that the Project is carried out in
accordance with the provisions of the Safeguards Instruments. To this end, if the ESMP
requires the preparation and adoption of an Additional ESMP (including any Livelihood
Restoration Plan and any Physical Cultural Resources Management Plan) for any Project
activity, the Borrower shall cause the PIE to:
(a) 
(i) prepare such Additional ESMP; (ii) furnish such Additional ESMP to the Bank
for review and approval; and (iii) thereafter adopt and disclose such Additional
ESMP prior to implementation of the concerned Project activity; and
(b) 
thereafter take such measures as shall be necessary or appropriate to ensure
compliance with the requirements of such Additional ESMP, including, without
limitation to the above, providing funds as and when required for resettlement
compensation under the RAP.
2. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall
cause the PIE to ensure that: (a) sufficient funds are made available for the implementation
of the RAP, including for compensation or resettlement costs related to the Project pursuant
to the clearances of a right of way; and (b) payment of said RAP compensation or
resettlement costs is made in a timely fashion and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
3. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 immediately above, the
Borrower shall cause the PIE and the RPTA to ensure that any technical and feasibility
studies to be supported under the Project are carried out under terms of reference
-10-
satisfactory to the Bank, and duly incorporate the requirements of the Bank's safeguards
policies (including the public consultations and disclosure aspects).
4. 
The Borrower shall cause the PIE and the RPTA to ensure that all measures for carrying
out the recommendations of the Safeguards Instruments are implemented in a timely
manner.
5. 
Without limitation upon its other reporting obligations under this Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause the PIE to: (a) include in the Project Reports referred to in Section II
of this Schedule adequate information on monitoring of the measures defined in the
Safeguards Instruments, providing details of: (i) measures taken in furtherance of such
Safeguards Instruments; (ii) conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with
the smooth implementation of such Safeguards Instruments; and (iii) remedial measures
taken or required to be taken to address such conditions and to ensure the continued
efficient and effective implementation of such Safeguards Instruments; and (b) afford the
Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the PIE on such information, and
thereafter carry out with due diligence all remedial measures agreed with the Bank so as
to ensure the proper implementation of the Project in accordance with the Safeguards
Instruments.
6. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the PIE and the RPTA do not amend or waive, or permit
to be amended or waived, any Safeguards Instrument or any provision thereof without the
prior written approval of the Bank.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
The Borrower shall cause the PIE to furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar semester.
Section III. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in
accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible Expenditures; and (b) pay: (i) the
Front-end Fee; and (ii) each Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar premium; in the
amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category of
the following table:
-11-
Category 
Amount of the Non- 
Amount of the 
Percentage of
Concessional 
Concessional 
Expenditures to be
Portion of the Loan 
Portion of the Loan 
financed
Allocated 
Allocated 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(expressed in USD) 
(expressed in USD)
(1) Goods, works, 
205,637,000 
63,800,000 
100% of amounts
non-consulting 
disbursed pursuant to
services, 
the respective Annual
consulting 
Work Plan and
services 
Budget as approved
(including for 
by the Bank
audits), Training,
and Operating
Costs
(2) Land and 
19,000,000 
6,000,000 
100%
Involuntary
Resettlement
Payments
(3) Front-end Fee 
563,000 
Not applicable 
Amount payable
pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in
accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of
the General
Conditions
(4) Interest Rate Cap 
0 
Not applicable 
Amount due pursuant
or Interest Rate 
to Section 4.05 (c) of
Collar premium 
the General
Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
225,200,000 
69,800,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made for payments
made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed $10,000,000 may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after
April 15, 2018, for Eligible Expenditures under Category (1).
-12-
2. 
All withdrawals under Categories (1) and (2) shall be made on a pari passu basis and at
a 76:24 ratio between the amount of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan allocated
and the amount of the Concessional Portion of the Loan allocated.
3. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2023.
-13-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Non-Concessional Portion of the
Loan and the percentage of the total principal amount of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan
payable on each Principal Payment Date ("Installment Share").
Level Principal Repayments
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
On each Mayl5 and November 15
Beginning May 15, 2026 
2.13%
through November 15, 2048
On May 15, 2049 
2.02%
-14-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Additional ESMPs" means, collectively, the PIE's Additional Environmental and Social
Management Plans, to be prepared and adopted by the PIE pursuant to the ESMP (as
hereinafter defined) and agreed with the Bank for purposes of site-specific activities under
the Project and providing details of the site-specific actions, measures, and policies designed
to mitigate the environmental and social impacts of activities under the Project, including the
institutional, procedural, and other measures needed to implement such actions, measures,
and policies, and including any Livelihood Restoration Plans (as hereinafter defined) and any
Physical Cultural Resources Management Plans (as hereinafter defined), as the same may
be amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank; and "Additional
ESMP" means any one (1) of such plans.
2. 
"Affected Person" means a person who, on account of Project implementation, has
experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by: (a) the
involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or
access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such
person must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally
designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such
person; and "Affected Persons" means, collectively, all such persons.
3. 
"Annual Work Plan and Budget" means the annual work plan and budget referred to in
Section I.D of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and Section I.C of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.
4. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption
in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006
and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
5. 
"BRT" means bus rapid transit.
6. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
7. 
"Council of Ministers" means the Borrower*s ministerial cabinet, or any successor thereto.
8. 
"Council for Development and Reconstruction" and "CDR" each means a public authority,
under the Council of Ministers, established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's
Legislative Decree No. 5 dated January 31, 1977, and Law No. 295 dated April 3, 2001, or
any successor thereto.
9. 
"Concessional Financing Facility" and "CFF" each means the financing facility established
with a focus on providing concessional financing to middle-income countries most affected
by the presence of large numbers of refugees, with an initial focus on the Syrian refugee
crisis as it impacts Jordan and Lebanon, and referred to in the Preamble to this Agreement.
-15-
10. 
"Concessional Portion of the Loan" means the amount of the Loan referred to in
Section 2.01 (b) of this Agreement, which has been contributed for the Project from the
CFF on a grant basis.
11. 
"ESIA" means the PIE's instrument entitled "Environmental and Social Impact
Assessment (ESIA) for the Bus Rapid Transit System between Tabarja and Beirut and
Feeders Buses Services", dated October 13, 2017, and disclosed in-country on
October 20, 2017 and on the Bank's website on October 24, 2017, prepared and adopted by
the PIE for purposes of activities under the Project, providing details of the magnitude of
their environmental and social impacts, and including the ESMP (as hereinafter defined),
and such term includes all annexes and schedules to the ESIA, as the same may be amended
from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
12. 
"ESMP" means the PIE's instrument entitled "Environmental and Social Management
Plan", prepared and adopted by the PIE as part of the ESIA for purposes of activities under
the Project and providing details of the specific actions, measures, and policies designed to
mitigate the environmental and social impacts of activities under the Project, including the
institutional, procedural, and other measures needed to implement such actions, measures,
and policies and guidelines and procedures for the preparation of Additional ESMPs
(including Livelihood Restoration Plans and Physical Cultural Resources Management
Plans), as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of
the Bank
13. 
"Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year, running from January 1 to December 31
of the same year.
14. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing", dated
July 14, 2017, with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
15. 
"GPS" means Global Positioning System.
16. 
"Greater Beirut" means the city of Beirut and its suburbs, or any successor thereto.
17. 
"Involuntary Resettlement Payments" means cash payments made to an Affected Person
for purposes of implementation of the RAP (as hereinafter defined), for compensation for
relevant impacts, assistance during relocation, and / or transitional support following
displacement until estimated restoration of livelihood and standard of living.
18. 
"ITS" means Intelligent Transport Systems.
19. 
"Livelihood Restoration Plans" means, collectively, the PIE's site-specific plans, to be
prepared and adopted by the PIE as part of the Additional ESMPs pursuant to the ESMP and
agreed with the Bank for purposes of site-specific activities under the Project and providing
details of the site-specific measures for avoiding or mitigating the adverse impacts of such
activities on the livelihoods of bus operators and businesses subject to temporary disruption
on account of such activities (and including comprehensive socioeconomic baseline
-16-
information), such measures being developed through consultation with the Affected
Persons, any necessary actions for strengthening institutional capacity, and a monitoring
and evaluation system to track the implementation of such measures, as the same may be
amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank; and "Livelihood
Restoration Plan" means any one (1) of such plans.
20. 
"Loan" means the aggregate of the Concessional Portion of the Loan and the Non-
Concessional Portion of the Loan as set forth in Section 2.01 of this Agreement.
21. 
"Ministry of Public Works and Transport" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for
policymaking in relation to, and management of, public works and transport, or any
successor thereto.
22. 
"Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan" means the amount of the Loan referred to in
Section 2.01 (a) of this Agreement.
23. 
"Northern Highway" means the highway from the northern border of the city of Beirut to
Tripoli, or any successor thereto.
24. 
"Operating Costs" means incremental costs incurred on account of the Project
coordination, implementation and monitoring, including expenditures for vehicle operation
and maintenance, office supplies and consumables, utilities, communication, translation
and interpretation, bank charges, Project-related travel, including per diem and
accommodation, but excluding salaries of the Borrower's civil servants, and other
miscellaneous costs directly associated with the Project implementation.
25. 
"Partnership Agreement" means the contract referred to in Section I.E.2 of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement (including its annexes and schedules), governing the contractual
relationship between the competitively selected Private-Sector Operator, the PIE, and other
concerned parties, and pursuant to which the Private-Sector Operator shall be responsible
for, among other matters, acquisition of bus fleets, as well as the operation and maintenance
of said fleets, under Parts 1 (c), 1 (d), and 2 (b) of the Project, all in conformity with the
provisions of this Agreement.
26. 
"Physical Cultural Resources Management Plans" means, collectively, the PIE's site-
specific plans, to be prepared and adopted by the PIE pursuant to the ESMP as part of the
Additional ESMPs and agreed with the Bank for purposes of site-specific activities under the
Project and providing details of the site-specific measures for avoiding or mitigating any
adverse impacts on physical cultural resources, provisions for managing physical cultural
resources encountered unexpectedly during Project implementation, any necessary actions
for strengthening institutional capacity, and a monitoring and evaluation system to track
the implementation of such measures, as the same may be amended from time to time with
the prior written agreement of the Bank; and "Physical Cultural Resources Management
Plan" means any one (1) of such plans.
27. 
"PPP Law" means the Borrower's Law No. 48 dated September 7, 2017, or any successor
thereto.
-17-
28. 
"Private-Sector Operator" means a private-sector company, or a consortium of such
companies, that has been awarded a Partnership Agreement.
29. 
"Procurement Regulations" means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF Borrowers", dated
July 2016, revised November 2017.
30. 
"Project Implementing Entity" and "PIE" each means the CDR.
31. 
"Project Implementing Entity's Legislation" means the Borrower's Legislative Decree
No. 5 dated January 31, 1977, and Law No. 295 dated April 3, 2001, or any successor
thereto.
32. 
"Project Implementation Manual" or "PIM" means the Project implementation manual
referred to in Section I.C of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
33. 
"RAP" means the PIE's document entitled "Resettlement Action Plan for the Bus Rapid
Transit System between Tabarja and Beirut and Feeder Bus Services", dated
October 16, 2017, disclosed in-country on October 20, 2017, and on the Bank's website on
October 24, 2017, prepared and adopted by the PIE for purposes of activities under the
Project and setting forth a program of actions, measures, and policies for compensation and
resettlement of Affected Persons, as well as the magnitude of displacement, proposed
compensation and resettlement arrangements, budget and cost estimates thereof, and
sources of funding, together with adequate institutional, monitoring, and reporting
arrangements designed to ensure proper implementation of, and regular feedback on
compliance with, such plan, and such term includes all annexes and schedules to the RAP,
as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
34. 
"RPTA" means the Railways and Transport Authority, under the Ministry of Public Works
and Transport, established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 6479 dated
April 14, 1961, or any successor thereto.
35. 
"RPTA Legislation" means the Borrower's Law No. 6479 dated April 14, 1961, or any
successor thereto.
36. 
"Safeguards Instruments" means, collectively, the ESIA, the ESMP, any Additional
ESMPs (including any Livelihood Restoration Plans and any Physical Cultural Resources
Management Plans), and the RAP; and "Safeguards Instrument" means any one (1) of said
instruments.
37. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two (2) dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the date of the Loan
Agreement" in the General Conditions.
38. 
"Training" means the training of persons involved in Project-supported activities, based on
the Annual Work Plans and Budgets approved by the Bank, such term including
scholarships, seminars, workshops, and study tours, and costs associated with such activity
-18-
including local and international travel and subsistence costs for training participants, per
diems, costs associated with securing the services of trainers, rental of training facilities,
preparation and reproduction of training materials, and other costs directly related to
training preparation and implementation.
Section H. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1 .
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names, and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the amendments set forth below.
2. 
Wherever used throughout the General Conditions, the term "Loan Payment" is modified
to read "Payment of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan". Furthermore, wherever
used in Section 3.01 (b), Sections 3.02 to 3.07, Section 3.10, Section 4.01, Sections 4.02 to
4.06 (including the Title, as applicable), Section 7.07, Section 7.08, and Section 9.05, the
term "Loan" is modified to read "Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan"; the term
"Unwithdrawn Loan Balance" is modified to read "Unwithdrawn Balance of the Non-
Concessional Portion of the Loan"; and the term "Withdrawn Loan Balance" is modified
to read "Withdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan".
3. 
In Section 2.07 (Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front End Fee, Interest
and Other Charges), the term "Loan" is deleted and replaced with "the Non-Concessional
Portion of the Loan".
4. 
In Section 3.01 (Front-end Fee), in the first sentence of subparagraph (a), the term "Loan
amount" is modified to read "Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan".
5. 
In the Appendix (Definitions), all references to Section numbers and paragraphs are
modified, as necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above.
6. 
Wherever used in the definitions of the following terms: "Automatic Conversion to Local
Currency"; "Automatic Rate Fixing Conversion"; "Commitment Linked Repayment
Amortization Schedule"; "Commitment-Linked Amortization Schedule; "Conversion";
"Currency Conversion"; "Default Interest Period"; "Default Interest Rate"; "Default
Variable Rate"; "Disbursed Amount", "Disbursement-Linked Amortization Schedule";
"Fixed Rate"; "Fixed Reference Rate"; "Fixed Spread"; "Installment Share"; "Interest Rate
Cap"; "Interest Rate Collar"; "Interest Rate Conversion"; "Principal Payment Date"; and
"Reference Rate Reset Date"; the term "Loan" is modified to read "Non-Concessional
Portion of the Loan"; the term "Unwithdrawn Loan Balance" is modified to read
"Unwithdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan"; and the term
"Withdrawn Loan Balance" is modified to read "Withdrawn Balance of the Non-
Concessional Portion of the Loan".
7. 
Paragraph 80 is replaced with the following definition of "Non-Concessional Portion of
the Loan":
-19-
"6 
"Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan" means the portion of the Loan provided
to the Borrower on non-concessional terms in the Loan Agreement."
8. 
Paragraph 104 is replaced with the following definition of "Unwithdrawn Balance of the
Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan":
"4 
"Unwithdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan" means the
amount of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan remaining unwithdrawn from the
Loan Account from time to time."
