OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8898-JO
GCFF TF NUMBER TF0A8043
Loan Agreement
(First Equitable Growth and Job Creation Development Policy Loan)
between
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8898-JO
GCFF TF NUMBER TF0A8043
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between THE HASHEMITE
KINGDOM OF JORDAN ("Borrower") and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing
financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).
WHEREAS: (A) following an international effort to provide development support
to countries most affected by refugees in the Middle East region; and having satisfied itself
as to the feasibility and priority of the Program aimed to support the Borrower set
foundations to: (i) reduce business costs and improve market accessibility; (ii) create more
flexible and integrated labor markets and provide better and more efficient social
assistance; and (iii) improve fiscal sustainability and take more informed decisions
regarding risk, the Borrower has requested the Bank to extend a loan to assist in the
financing of the Program;
(B) 
funding from the Global Concessional Financing Facility was received by
the Bank for purposes of providing concessionality to this Agreement;
(C) 
under the terms of a Financial Procedures Arrangement with the Trustee
of the Global Concessional Financing Facility dated August 10, 2016, the Bank has agreed
to provide additional funds to the Borrower (the Concessional Portion of the Loan as
hereinafter defined) as part of an integrated lending operation under the terms of this
Agreement; and
(D) 
furthermore, the Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis
of, inter alia:(i) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and
which are described in Section I.A of Schedule I to this Agreement; and (ii) the Borrower's
maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework.
NOW THEREFORE, the Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
-2-
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower a Loan in the amount of five hundred
million Dollars ($500,000,000), consisting of the following:
(a) 
a non-concessional portion of the Loan in an amount of three hundred
eighty-nine million Dollars ($389,000,000) ("Non-Concessional Portion
of the Loan", as such amount may be converted from time to time through
a Currency Conversion; and
(b) 
a concessional portion of the Loan in an amount of one hundred eleven
million Dollars ($111,000,000) ("Concessional Portion of the Loan"). For
the avoidance of doubt, the Concessional Portion of the Loan shall not be
eligible for Conversions under the General Conditions.
2.02. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Non-Concessional
Portion of the Loan.
2.03 
(a) 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum
on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the
Loan.
(b) 
The Commitment Charge shall not be applied to the Concessional Portion
of the Loan.
2.04. 
(a) 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Fixed Spread or such rate
as may apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the
General Conditions.
(b) 
The Concessional Portion of the Loan shall be made on a non-
reimbursable basis.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan shall be repaid
in accordance with Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.07. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.05 of the General Conditions,
the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the
provisions of this Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To
this end, and further to Section 5.05 of the General Conditions:
-3-
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either
party, exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; and
(b) 
without limitation upon paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall
promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have the effect of
materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action taken
under the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule
1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
significant part of it, will be carried out.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the
Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that
the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out
the Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its minister responsible for planning and
international cooperation.
6.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower's address is:
Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
Post office Box 555
Amman, 11118
The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan; and
-4-
(b) 
the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile: 
E-mail:
+962-6-464 9341 
mop@mop.gov.jo
6.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) 
the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
E-mail:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
tmeyerl@worldbank.org
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
By:
Authorized Representative
Name: Dr. Mary Kawar
Title: Minister of Planning & International Cooperation
Date: 18 July, 2018
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By:
Authorized Representative
Name: Mr. Saro Kumar Jha
Title: Regional Director,
Middle East Department
Date: 18 July, 2018
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
A. 
Actions Taken Under the Program. The actions taken by the Borrower under the
Program include the following:
1. 
The Borrower has enacted the Monitoring and Inspection Law to reduce the burden
on businesses by improving the inspections and monitoring framework.
2. 
The Borrower's ability to serve Jordanian exporters has been improved by: (a) the
Central Bank's and the JLGC's agreement dated March 12, 2017, expanding the
resources available for reinsurance and strengthening JLGC's financial capacity to
deliver trade insurance products; and (b) restructuring JLGC's Board to include
independent directors, as evidenced by the minutes of JLGC's Board's 24th annual
regular general assembly meeting, dated March 28, 2018.
3. 
The Borrower has enacted the Insolvency Law introducing business insolvency
procedures.
4. 
(a) The Borrower, through the MEMR, has adopted indicators, targets and a
timeline to address grid-subsidy for self-generation and reduce cross-subsidies, as
evidenced by MEMR's letter No. 1/10/3/74 dated May 17, 2018; and (b) EMRC
has taken initial actions consistent with them, as evidenced by EMRC's letter No.
1/3/11/38 dated May 27, 2018.
5. 
The Borrower's Council of Ministers has instructed MoL to carry out a review on
the legal framework to identify causes of segmentation in the labor market, as
evidenced by Decision No. 8036, dated May 28, 2018.
6. 
The Borrower, through MoL, has issued Instructions on flexible work with
minimum wage rates by unit of hours, published in the Official Gazette on April
1, 2018.
7. 
The Borrower, through MoL, has: (a) allowed the Jordanian General Federation of
Trade Unions to provide work permits for Syrian workers working in the
construction sector and removed the requirement of Syrian workers to show a
profession practice certificate as a prerequisite to obtain the work permit, as
evidenced by Circulars No. 210/2017 and No. 278/2017, dated July 23, 2017 and
September 28, 2017 respectively; and (b) waived fees for Syrian workers to obtain
work permits for 2018 as evidenced by Circular No. 199/2018, dated May 27,
2018.
-7-
8. 
The Borrower, through the Council of Ministers, has approved a plan to improve
and expand the coverage of the NAF cash transfer program to cover at least 85,000
additional households between 2019 and 2021, as evidenced by Decision No.
8057, dated May 28, 2018.
9. 
The Borrower's Council of Ministers has reduced exemptions and increased
preferential rates in the general sales tax and the special sales tax consistent with
the 2018 budget law, as evidenced in its Decisions published in the Official Gazette
on January 16, 2018; February 1, 2018; and February 1, 2018.
10. 
The Borrower's Council of Ministers has endorsed MoPIC's proposal for the
"Jordan 2018 Public Investment Management -
Public-Private-Partnership
Governance Framework" as evidenced by: (a) The Prime Minister's letter dated
May 22, 2018; and (b) MoPIC's letters dated May 20, 2018.
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
may specify by notice to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the
Front-end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the
Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
Amount of the Non- 
Amount of the
Concessional Portion 
Concessional Portion
Tranche 
Tranche
Allocated 
Allocated
Allocations 
(expressed in US$) 
(expressed in US$)
(1) Single Withdrawal 
388,027,500 
111,000,000
Tranche
(2) Front-end Fee 
972,500 
0
TOTAL AMOUNT 
389,000,000 
111,000,000
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank
is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with
the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
-8-
D. 
Deposit of Loan Amounts
The Borrower, within thirty (30) days after the withdrawal of the Loan from the
Loan Account, shall report to the Bank: (a) the exact sum received into the account
referred to in Section 2.03(a) of the General Conditions; (b) the details of the
account to which the Jordanian Dinar equivalent of the Loan proceeds will be
credited; (c) the record that an equivalent amount has been accounted for in the
Borrower's budget management systems; and (d) the statement of receipts and
disbursement of the account referred to in Section 2.03(a) of the General
Conditions.
E. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is June 30, 2020.
-9-
SCHEDULE 2
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Non-
Concessional Portion of the Loan and the percentage of the total principal amount of the
Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share").
Level Principal Repayments
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning May 15, 2023 
1.64%
through November 15, 2052
On May 15, 2053 
1.6%
- 10 
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Central Bank" means the Borrower's Central Bank established pursuant to the
Central Bank of Jordan Law No. 23, 1971, published in the Official Gazette on
May 25, 1971.
2. 
"Concessional Portion of the Loan" means the amount of the Loan referred to in
Article 2.01(b) of this Agreement; which has been contributed for the Program
from the CFF on grant basis.
3. 
"EMRC" means the Borrower's Energy and Mineral Resources Regulatory
Commission established pursuant to law No. 17 of the year 2014, published in the
Official Gazette on April 30, 2014.
4. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Development Policy
Financing", dated July 14, 2017, with the modifications set forth in Section II of
this Appendix.
5. 
"Global Concessional Financing Facility" and "GCFF" each means the financing
facility established with a focus on providing concessional financing to middle
income countries most affected by the presence of large numbers of refugees, with
an initial focus on the Syrian refugee crisis as it impacts eligible countries, and
referred to in the Preamble to this Agreement.
6. 
"Insolvency Law" means the Borrower's Law No. 21 of the year 2018, published
in the Borrower's Official Gazette on May 16, 2018.
7. 
"JLGC" means the Jordan Loan Guarantee Corporation, registered as a public
shareholding company in the Borrower's territory on March 26, 1994.
8. 
"Jordanian General Federation of Trade Unions" means the Borrower's Federation
of Trade Unions established on 1954.
9. 
"MEMR" means the Borrower's Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources.
10. 
"MoL" means the Borrower's Ministry of Labor.
11. 
"Monitoring and Inspection Law" means the Borrower's Law No. 33 of the year
2017, published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on September 17, 2017.
12. 
"MoPIC" 
means the Borrower's Ministry of Planning and International
Cooperation.
- 11 
13. 
"NAF" means the Borrower's National Aid Fund, established pursuant to Law no.
(36) for the year 1986, published in the Official Gazette on January 10, 1986.
14. 
"Program" means: the program of objectives, policies, and actions set forth or
referred to in the letter dated May 30, 2018, from the Borrower to the Bank
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its execution
and comprising actions taken, including those set forth in Section I of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, and actions to be taken consistent with the program's
objectives.
15. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the
date of the Loan Agreement" in the General Conditions.
16. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Wherever used throughout the General Conditions (other than throughout the
Appendix), the term "Loan Payment" and "Loan Payments" are modified to read
"Payment of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan" and "Payments of the
Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan", respectively. Furthermore, wherever used
in Section 2.05; Sections 3.01 to 3.07; Section 4.01 to 4.06, Sections 7.05 to 7.07,
Section 8.02, and Section 9.05, the term "Loan" is modified to read "Non-
Concessional Portion of the Loan"; the term "Unwithdrawn Loan Balance" is
modified to read "Unwithdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the
Loan"; and the term "Withdrawn Loan Balance" is modified to read "Withdrawn
Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan".
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, wherever used in the following definitions of the
terms "Automatic Conversion to Local Currency"; "Automatic Rate Fixing
Conversion"; 
"Commitment 
Linked 
Repayment 
Amortization 
Schedule";
"Conversion"; "Currency Conversion"; "Default Interest Period"; "Default
Interest Rate"; "Default Variable Rate"; "Disbursed Amount", "Disbursement-
Linked Amortization Schedule"; "Fixed Rate"; "Fixed Reference Rate"; "Fixed
Spread"; "Installment Share"; "Interest Rate Cap"; "Interest Rate Collar"; "Interest
Rate Conversion"; "Principal Payment Date"; "Reference Rate Reset Date";
- 12 
"Variable Spread"; the term "the Loan" is modified to read "the Non-Concessional
Portion of the Loan"; the term "Unwithdrawn Loan Balance" is modified to read
"the Unwithdrawn Balance ofthe Non-Concessional Portion ofthe Loan"; and the
term "Withdrawn Loan Balance" is modified to read "Withdrawn Balance of the
Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan".
4. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, the term "Withdrawn Loan Balance" in the
definition of "Commitment Linked Repayment Amortization Schedule" is
modified to read "Withdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the
Loan".
5. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, the definition of "Loan Account" is modified to read
as follows:
" "Loan Account" means the account or accounts opened by the Bank in its
books in the name of the Borrower to which the amount of the Loan is credited."
6. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, the definition of "Loan Payment" is deleted in its
entirety, and all subsequent paragraphs are renumbered accordingly.
7. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, a new paragraph is inserted with the following
definition of "Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan", and the remaining
paragraphs are renumbered accordingly:
" "Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan" means portion of the Loan provided to
the Borrower on non-concessional terms in the Loan Agreement."
8. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, a new paragraph is inserted with the following
definition of "Payment of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan" and the
remaining paragraphs are renumbered accordingly:
" "Payment of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan" means any amount
payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these
General Conditions, including (but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn
Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan, interest, the Front-end Fee,
the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any
prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of
a Conversion, any premium payable upon the establishment of an Interest Rate
Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower."
9. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, a new paragraph is inserted with the following
definition of "Unwithdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the
Loan", and the remaining paragraphs are renumbered accordingly:
- 13 
""Unwithdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan" means the
amount of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan remaining unwithdrawn from
the Loan Account from time to time."
10. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, a new paragraph is inserted with the following
definition of "Withdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan",
and the remaining paragraphs are renumbered accordingly:
" "Withdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan" means the
amounts of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan
Account and outstanding from time to time."
