OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
国国日国国国日日国日国日国国国園国国国園日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日国国国国■国日国国国園国国日国■国国■■国日日■日■■国日日日日日■国日日日日日国日日日日日日日日日日国国国国日園日日日日国日日日国国日国日国国日日日■日日日国国■国国国日日日日日日日日日日日日国日日日日日日
LOAN NUMBER 8859一TR
Loan Agreement
(Turkey Gas Storage Expansion Project)
betwCen
BORU HATLARI ILE PETROL TASIMA ANONIM SIRKETI(BOTAS)
and
INTERNAT10NAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
nated 
JuNE 
ィイ
，2018
国日日国日日日園国国国国■■国■国国■■国国国日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日■国日日■■国■国■ 国国国国国■国日国日国国国日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日■ 日国■ 国国国国国国■国国■■■国■■■■園■■国国日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日■日日国■国■国■■国■国■■日国国■国日
国国国■■■■■■■■■日ー 国日国国日国国国自国国国日国国日国日日国国日日日日日日日日日日国日日日日日日日日日日日日国■ ■■国目国国国国園国国国国国国日日国国日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日国日日日■日国日■国国国国国国国国日日日日日国日日国日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日国
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between BORU HATLARI iLE
PETROL TA$IMA ANONIM $IRKET! (BOTA$) ("BOTA$" or "Borrower"), a joint
stock company established and operating under the Republic of Turkey and further defined
in 
the 
Appendix 
to 
this 
Agreement, 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE 11 -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of six hundred million Dollars
(USD 600,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through
a Currency Conversion ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in
Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annurn on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Fixed Spread or such rate as may
apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02 (e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
?14?0
-2-
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end,
except as the Borrower, the Guarantor and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following:
BOTA$'s Articles of Association and any relevant legislation, governmental
order, regulation or agreement that establishes the Borrower or that impacts its
ability to carry out its obligations under this Agreement is introduced, amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely
the Borrower's ability to perform any of its obligations under the Project.
4.02. 
Pursuant to Article VII, Section 7.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the Co-
financing Deadline for the effectiveness of the Co-financing Agreement is
December 31, 2018.
4.03. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following:
Any event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for
a period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to
the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
Signature Date.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its General Manager.
6.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower's address is:
-3-
Boru Hatlari ile Petrol Tapima Anonim $irketi
Bilkent Plaza, 4. Cadde
A-2 Blok
Bilkent 06800
Ankara
Republic of Turkey; and
(b) 
the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile:
(90-312) 266-0733
(90-312) 266-0734
6.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) 
the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
BORU HATLARI ILE PETROL
TA$IMA ANONIM $iRKETI (BOT 
By
Authorized Representative
Name: h1j.1 
I4la r Y
Title: 
4
Date: 
.
to
By
Athorize Repr6sentative
Name: -WOUCAN 
64AN
Title: 
Ad
Date: 
a4 27
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
If\tte
Title:_ _________
Date: 
(I JOt 
-Z015
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to increase the reliability and security of gas supply
in Turkey by expanding underground gas storage capacity in the country.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. Tuz G6li Gas Storage Expansion Plant.
A. 
Water and Brine Pipelines.
(i) 
Construction of a water intake structure at the Hirfanli Dam.
(ii) 
Construction of a fresh water supply line from the Hirfanli Dam
reservoir to the Project Site with valves, pumping stations, and
storage tanks.
(iii) 
Construction of a brine discharge line with valves and a diffuser
from the Project Site to the Tuz G6l1i lake.
B. 
Subsurface Facilities.
(i) 
Drilling and leaching of 40 caverns with an option for up to eight
8 spare caverns, to store at least 4.0 billion cubic meters of
working natural gas.
(ii) 
Carrying out of the following activities for each cavern covered
under Part I.B (i) of the Project: (a) snubbing; (b) testing cavern
integrity and gas tightness; (c) first gas filling for each cavern; (d)
provision of Cushion Gas; (e) commissioning of each cavern; and
(f) operation of the facilities.
C. 
Surface Facilities.
(i) 
Connection of the Borrower's existing surface facility for the
leaching of a subset of the 40 caverns referred to in Part 1.B (i) of
the Project.
(ii) 
Construction of a new surface facility for the leaching of the
remaining of the 40 caverns referred to in Part L.B (i) of the
Project, including construction of a station inlet-outlet line with
pigging facilities, filters, gas flow metering units, gas turbines,
-6-
heat exchangers, water separators, heating and pressure reducing
units, glycol gas absorber and regeneration units, and utilities.
(iii) 
Construction of a connection pipeline between the existing and
new surface facilities for first gas filling, operation and
maintenance.
(iv) 
Construction of a gas transmission line to connect the facility to
the Borrower's Kayseri-Konya-Seydi§ehir 
gas pipeline and
national gas grid at Bozcamahmut.
D. 
Electricity Supply.
Construction of: (i) electricity transmission lines and power supply for
water pumping stations, surface, and sub-surface facilities; and (ii)
uninterruptible power supply systems for critical processes.
E. 
Instrumentation, Control, and Telecommunication Systems.
Provision of: (i) a Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition ("SCADA")
system for the water supply and brine discharge lines; (ii) a SCADA
system for the surface facilities; and (iii) communication tools to enable
the SCADA system established at the Tuz G610 Gas Storage Expansion
Plant to communicate with the Borrower's general SCADA system in
Ankara.
F. 
Contractor Services.
Provision of management services, including: (i) fulfillment of planning,
coordination, 
administration, 
reporting, 
and security requirements;
(ii) development and implementation of detailed design and engineering;
(iii) carrying out of Project procurement; (iv) carrying out of installation
services; 
(v) 
provision of testing and inspection 
services; 
(vi)
commissioning and operational acceptance; and (vii) carrying out of
training of the Borrower's personnel.
Part 2. Construction Supervision.
Carrying out of the following activities:
A. 
Review, and provision of support to facilitate the Borrower's approval of,
detailed engineering drawings and for supervision of the facility
construction and installations covered under Part 1 of the Project;
-7-
B. 
Inspect and test the materials, plant and equipment covered under Part I
of the Project, both during the facilities' construction and installation
phases; and
C. 
Develop and implement the overall Project quality assurance and quality
control program.
Part 3. Environmental and Social Impact Assessment ("ESIA") and Resettlement
Action Plan ("RAP") Monitoring.
Carrying out of regular monitoring of Project activities to ensure proper
compliance with the ESIA and the RAP(s), in accordance with the Environmental
and Social Management Plan ("ESMP") and the Resettlement Policy Framework
("RPF").
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements.
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
maintain, until Project Completion, the Project Management Unit
("PMU"), to be responsible for coordinating and supervising Project
implementation;
(b) 
ensure that the PMU functions at all times in a manner and with staffing,
budgetary resources, and authority necessary and appropriate for
satisfactory Project implementation, and all of which shall be acceptable
to the Bank; and
(c) 
ensure the provision of efficient and effective technical and administrative
support to the PMU from other specialized units of the Borrower.
B. 
Safeguards.
1. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 5.01 of the General Conditions, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions and
recommendations of the ESIA and the RPF, and to this end, shall maintain
throughout Project implementation, dedicated teams to, respectively, (a) ensure the
Project's compliance with the ESIA, and (b) carry out any acquisition of land
required under the Project in accordance with the RPF and the RAP(s) to be
prepared by the Borrower subsequently, all of which shall be acceptable to the
Bank.
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that: (a) any contractors carrying out the Project shall
perform their work in accordance with the technical and environmental practices
applicable to the Project, as set forth in the ESIA and the RPF, and under terms of
reference and with qualifications and experience necessary to satisfactorily carry
out the design and construction of the Project, and all of which shall be acceptable
to the Bank; and (b) ensure that any contracts for civil works under the Project
include Codes of Conduct in form and substance acceptable to the Bank.
7
-9-
3. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
take all necessary actions to minimize, to the extent possible, any
Involuntary Resettlement, in carrying out the Project; and
(b) 
for this purpose, whenever implementation of Project activities would give
rise to Involuntary Resettlement with respect to civil works related to said
activities: (i) prepare the RAP(s) for sites where pre-screening has
identified Involuntary Resettlement impacts, in accordance with the
principles and procedures set forth in the RPF; (ii) thereafter, provide said
RAP(s) to the Bank for review; and (iii) commence and implement such
works only after completing implementation of the relevant parts of the
RAP(s) as shall have been accepted by the Bank as being satisfactory.
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the ESIA, the RPF, and any RAP(s), and any
provision thereof, shall not be amended, suspended, abrogated, terminated or
waived or permitted to be amended, suspended, abrogated, terminated or waived,
except with the prior written consent of the Bank.
5. 
The Borrower shall ensure, in relation to any Involuntary Resettlements under the
Project, the payment of all expenditures and any other related payments referenced
under the RAP(s).
6. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
ensure that site or unit specific environmental and social evaluation or
assessment reports 
for the camp sites, 
access 
roads, electricity
transmission lines, wells, above ground installations, or any other units,
which are defined and updated after the design works, are prepared and
completed by the contractor in a manner acceptable to the Bank;
(b) 
ensure that, in case of any change of routing of the pipelines (including the
freshwater pipeline, brine discharge line, or natural gas connection line)
that the relevant sections of the ESIA are updated in a manner acceptable
to the Bank;
(c) 
update the hazard identification and hazard operability sections of the
ESIA as soon as the detailed design works are complete in a manner
acceptable to the Bank;
(d) 
complete the environmental and social management system by including
all sub-management plans to be prepared by the Borrower and by the
contractor as defined in the ESIA in a manner acceptable to the Bank; and
- 10-
(e) 
cause the ESIA and RAP monitoring consultant to prepare quarterly ESIA
and RAP monitoring reports acceptable to the Bank for the purpose of
independently monitoring the Project's compliance with the terms of the
ESIA and RPF, and to provide said reports, simultaneously, to each the
Borrower and the Bank in a timely manner.
7. 
The Borrower shall maintain, throughout Project implementation, and publicize
the availability of a Project feedback and grievance redress mechanism, in form
and substance satisfactory to the Bank, to hear and determine fairly and in good
faith all feedback and complaints raised in relation to the Project, and take all
measures necessary to implement the determinations made by said feedback and
grievance redress mechanism, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
8. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
as soon as reasonably practicable, but no later than five (5) calendar days
after the occurrence of a Significant Event, inform the Bank by any
electronic means of the nature of the incident, accident, or circumstance
and any effect or impact (whether on-site or off-site) resulting or likely to
result there from;
(b) 
as soon as reasonably practicable, but no later than thirty (30) days after
such Significant Event, provide the Bank with a summary report that
includes a description of such Significant Event, and the measures, if any,
that the Borrower is taking or plans to take to address such Significant
Event and to prevent any future similar event; and
(c) 
keep the Bank informed of the on-going implementation of the said
measures and plans.
C. 
Safety of Dams.
1. 
No later than six (6) months after the Effective Date, and in any event prior to the
commencement of Part 1.A (i) of the Project, the Borrower shall be in receipt, and
ensure the Bank's receipt, from the State Hydraulic Works ("DSI") an Emergency
Action Plan for the Hirfanlh Reservoir Dam, all in form and substance satisfactory
to the Bank.
2. 
The Borrower shall take all reasonable measures, including coordinating with all
relevant parties, to ensure that:
(a) 
the Emergency Action Plan and the Operation and Maintenance Plan,
including for dam safety monitoring as upgraded in 2017, for the Hirfanli
Reservoir Dam, is properly maintained and implemented, with due
diligence and efficiency, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and
- 11 
(b) 
the Bank is appropriately informed of the implementation progress of said
plans.
D. 
Construction Supervision and ESIA And RAP Monitoring.
For the purposes of construction supervision and ESIA and RAP monitoring,
respectively covered under Parts 2 and 3 of the Project, the Borrower shall retain
the related consulting services until Project Completion.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, covering the calendar quarter.
- 12 
Section III. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and
in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the
Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible
Expenditures; (b) pay (i) the Front-end Fee, and (ii) each Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar premium; in the amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the
percentage set forth against each Category of the following table:
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(exclusive of VAT)
(1) 
Goods, works, non- 
598,500,000 
50%
consulting 
services, 
and
consulting services for the
Project, except Part 1.B (ii)
(d) of the Project.
(2) 
Front-end Fee 
1,500,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(3) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest 
Rate 
Collar 
Section 4.05 (c) of the
premium 
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
600,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the Signature Date.
2. 
The Closing Date is October 31, 2024.
- 13 
SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share").
Level Principal Repayments
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning November 15, 2025
through May 15, 2040 
3.23%
On November 15, 2040 
3.10%
- 14 
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006, and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
2. 
"BOTA$" means Boru Hatlar ile Petrol Ta ima A.$., a joint stock company
established as a state economic enterprise and operating pursuant to Articles of
Association published in the Official Gazette dated April 17, 1995.
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
4. 
"Codes of Conduct" means the codes of conduct referred to in Section 1.B.2 (b) of
Schedule 2, detailing, inter alia, measures on environment, health and safety, and
preventing and responding to matters of violence (e.g., gender-based, and against
minors).
5. 
"Co-financier" means the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank.
6. 
"Co-financing" means, for purposes of paragraph 16 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, an amount of six hundred million Dollars (USD 600,000,000)
to be provided by the Co-financier to assist in financing the Project.
7. 
"Co-financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Co-financier providing for the Co-financing.
8. 
"Cushion Gas" means the volume of natural gas necessary for maintaining the
integrity of the storage caverns to be formed under Part I of the Project and to be
retained within the caverns throughout the life of the storage facility.
9. 
"DSI" means Devlet Su 19leri, the State Hydraulic Works of the Guarantor.
10. 
"Emergency Action Plan" means the plan specifying, inter alia, the emergency
preparedness responsibilities, arrangements, measures and procedures (including
the roles and responsibilities of relevant parties, the detection and evaluation of
potentially arising dam safety issues, remedial measures, and notification
procedures), prepared by DSI, acceptable to the Bank, referred to in Section I.C.1
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as said plan may be amended from time to time
with the Bank's prior written approval.
- 15 
11. 
"Environmental and Social Impact Assessment" or "ESIA" means the said
document for the Project disclosed on the Borrower's website on March 24, 2018,
and disclosed through the Bank's external website on March 27, 2018, that
includes, but is not limited to, (a) an environmental and social management
system, (b) an Environmental and Social Management Plan, (c) a commitments
register, (d) a stakeholder engagement plan, (e) the RPF, and (f) sub-management
plans (to be updated by the contractor after design studies), all such documents as
defined in this Annex and found acceptable to the Bank, and as such documents
may be amended from time to time.
12. 
"Environmental and Social Management Plan" or "ESMP" means the plan adopted
by the Borrower pursuant to the ESIA, in respect of activities to be carried out by
the Borrower under the Project; such plan defines the detailed measures to manage
potential environmental and social risks and mitigate, reduce and/or offset adverse
environmental and social impacts associated with the implementation of said
activities under the Project, together with adequate institutional, monitoring and
reporting arrangements capable of ensuring proper implementation of, and regular
feedback on compliance with, its terms, as the same may be amended and
supplemented from time to time.
13. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project
Financing", dated July 14, 2017.
14. 
"Guarantor" means the Republic of Turkey.
15. 
"Involuntary Resettlement" means any direct economic and social impact caused
by: (a) the involuntary taking of land resulting in (i) relocation or loss of shelter,
(ii) loss of assets or access to assets, and (iii) loss of income sources or means of
livelihood, whether or not the affected persons must move to another location; or
(b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected
areas resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihoods of such person.
16. 
"Operation and Maintenance Plan" means the plan upgraded by DSI in 2017,
acceptable to the Bank, referred to in Section I.C.2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, as said plan may be amended from time to time with the Bank's prior
written approval.
17. 
"Procurement Regulations" means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF
Borrowers", dated July 2016, revised November 2017.
18. 
"Project Completion" means the full commissioning of the activities under Part I
of the Project and the respective defects liability period.
- 16-
19. 
"Project Management Unit" or "PMU" means the Project management unit of the
Borrower, referred to in Section I.A of Schedule 2, or any legal successor to such
unit.
20. 
"Project Site" means the area 39 kilometers south of Tuz G6l0 at T8mi plateau
within the boundaries of Sultanham district in the Aksaray province where the
surface facilities and subsurface facilities for the Project will be located.
21. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" and RAP" mean a site-specific resettlement action
plan relating to land acquisition and/or resettlement or economic displacement of
persons, as the case may be, prepared in accordance with the RPF and the
provisions of Section 1.B.3 (b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and acceptable to
the Bank.
22. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the Resettlement Policy
Framework prepared by the Borrower and disclosed in the Borrower's website on
March 23, 2018, and the Bank's website on March 27, 2018, which framework
sets out the policies and procedures 
for land acquisition, resettlement,
compensation, preparation of resettlement action plans therefor, consultation,
disclosure, grievance redress, and monitoring and reporting during Project
implementation, as said framework may be revised from time to time with the prior
agreement of the Bank.
23. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the
date of the Loan Agreement" in the General Conditions.
24. 
"Significant Event" means: (a) any significant social, labor, health and safety,
security or environmental incident, accident, or circumstance involving the
Project, including, without limitation, explosions, spills, and any workplace
accidents that result in death, serious or multiple injury, material pollution, or any
violent labor unrest or dispute between the Borrower or security forces (assigned
to protect the Project) and local communities; or (b) any other event or
circumstance having, or which could reasonably be expected to have, a material
adverse effect on the implementation or operation of the Project in accordance with
the ESMF.
25. 
"Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition" or "SCADA" means a category of
software application program for process control, and the gathering of data in real
time from remote locations to control equipment and conditions.
26. 
"VAT" means value added tax.
