OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8865-CN
Loan Agreement
(Hezhou Urban Water Infrastructure and
Environment Improvement Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
OF CHINA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of one hundred and fifty
million Dollars (USD 150,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time
to time through a Currency Conversion ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may
apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are January 1 and July 1 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure
Limit (as said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of
this Section), the Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of
-2-
one half of one percent (0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess
Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for
each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if any)
shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set
forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during
which the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit,
the product of: (A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the
ratio of all (or, if the Bank so determines, a portion) of the Loan
to the aggregate amount of all (or the equivalent portions) of the
loans made by the Bank to the Borrower and to other borrowers
guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an exposure
surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined from
time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the
Bank's financial exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded,
would subject the Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined
from time to time by the Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total
financial exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by
the Bank.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions, Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower's
address is:
-3-
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Xicheng District
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China; and
(b) the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile: (86-10) 6855-2077
5.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
t~
Title:
Date:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized ftresentative
Name:
Title: 
__ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_
Date: 
701-
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to improve flood risk management and reduce
discharge of water pollutants in Hezhou Municipality.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Improving Flood Risk Resilience of the He River
(a) 
Connection of the main channel of the He River and its tributaries - in
order to divert, dissipate and store flood water - through such activities as
carrying out works to connect Donggan canal with Mawei tributary river
and the Lining river with mainstream He River.
(b) 
Removal of river flow obstructions at the three in-stream power stations
along the He River through such measures as: (i) carrying out facilities
improvement at those power stations; (ii) acquiring and decommissioning
Fanglin and Hejiang power stations; (iii) refitting the dam at Huangshi
power station; and (iv) optimizing the operational rules of Xiadao power
station.
(c) 
Improvement of flood drainage capacity along select parts of the He River
through such activities as rehabilitation of the river banks, dredging silt
from the riverbed and restoring flood protection zones along the river.
Part 2: Improving Urban Drainage and Wastewater Management
(a) 
Connection of Shizigang canal to its upstream lake system to allow
diversion of water away from the Hezhou central urban area.
(b) 
Improvement of flood drainage capacity of tributaries of the He River and
related canals through such activities as rehabilitation of the banks of - as
well as dredging silt on - these waterways, and restoring flood protection
zones along these tributaries.
(c) 
Installation of sewage interceptors in Babu district to separate wastewater
from storm water, re-routing of the main-line sewer collectors and
diversion of sewage to the Hezhou waste water treatment plant.
(d) 
Construction of Jiangnan sewage treatment plant and associated facilities
including the pumping station, primary and secondary sewer mains and
access roads.
-6-
(e) 
Construction of storm water control gates and installation of pump stations
at the confluences of the He River and some of its tributaries.
(f) 
Construction of water sightseeing corridor ("green ring") linking parks
and green spaces with the city's existing mountain and water system, such
construction entailing inter alia embankment building, landscaping, and
construction of water-centric park facilities along He River, Dongwu
canal, and Donggan canal.
(g) 
Construction of a continuous landscape belt ("green corridor") connecting
the Lining River and the Changlong River with rehabilitated lake areas,
green landscaped boulevards, and waterfront trails.
(h) 
Development of an ecological and historic corridor along historic Xiyue
Old Street comprising, inter alia, waterfront green land, construction of
revetment, and integration of the street with the existing road network and
bridges.
Part 3: Institutional Strengthening, Capacity Building and Project Management
(a) 
Capacity building and technical assistance. Provision of technical
assistance to support the improved coordination of water planning and
management through: (i) development of an integrated coordination
platform for flood risk and urban drainage management; (ii) development
of an integrated flood risk and urban drainage masterplan; (iii)
development of an integrated flood risk management and urban drainage
operations protocol in Hezhou Municipality; (iv) provision of technical
assistance as well as Training and Workshops to enhance the capacity of
Hezhou Municipality officials and institutions involved in water
management in Hezhou Municipality; and (v) carrying out knowledge-
sharing and dissemination activities about the Hezhou experience and
lessons from integrated water management within China and beyond.
(b) 
Smart system. Planning, designing and installation of a smart internet-
based information systems for controlling Hezhou water system
comprising, inter alia: (i) flood monitoring and early warning system; (ii)
water quality monitoring and early warning system; and (iii) integrated
water system control and optimization system.
(c) 
Project management. Supporting the overall capacity of the Project
Implementing Entity to coordinate, 
manage 
and 
supervise the
implementation of the Project, including: (i) undertaking preliminary and
final engineering designs and preparing bidding documents; 
(ii)
-7-
construction supervision; (iii) procurement of third party (external)
environmental and social safeguards monitoring services; and (iv) hiring
of experts to constitute the Dam Safety Panel.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arran2ements
A. 
Financing Arrangements
1. 
For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall make available the
proceeds of the Loan to the Project Implementing Entity, under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank, including the following principal terms:
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars or any other
Currency as the Loan may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion of the value of the currency or currencies so
withdrawn (such principal amount determined on the date, or respective
dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account).
(b) 
The principal amount so made available (including an amount equal to the
fee paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement and any premium for
Interest Rate Caps or Interest Rate Collars paid pursuant to Section 4.05(c)
of the General Conditions) shall be recovered over a period of thirty-two
(32) years, inclusive of a grace period of seven (7) years.
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of
Section 2.05 of this Agreement.
(d) 
A Commitment Charge shall be charged equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to: (a) manage, operate,
monitor, transfer and reconcile the proceeds of the Loan made available to it
pursuant to paragraph I above in accordance with arrangements and procedures
acceptable to the Bank; (b) take all required actions, including provision of timely
consents and approvals as may be necessary, to facilitate the utilization of said
Loan proceeds and the implementation of the Project and, to enable the Project
Implementing Entity to comply with its undertakings under the Project
Agreement; and (c) maintain all relevant records and documents related to the
Loan and the Project and provide promptly such documents and records, including
all other Project related information, as may be requested by the Borrower or the
Bank from time to time.
-9-
B. 
Safeguards and Dam Safety Measures
The Borrower shall take, and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to take,
all measures necessary to comply with, or all measures necessary to enable the
Project Implementing Entity to comply with, the provisions of Section I.B and I.C
of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section H. 
Project Monitoring Reportin2 and Evaluation
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to furnish to the Bank
each Project Report not later than sixty (60) days after the end of each calendar
semester, covering the calendar semester.
Section HI. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and
in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the
Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible
Expenditures; (b) pay: (i) the Front-end Fee; and (ii) each Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar premium; in the amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the
percentage set forth against each Category of the following table:
-10-
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures to
Allocated 
be financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods and works for the 
129,464,000 
80%
Project
(2) Consulting services, non- 
6,000,000 
100%
consulting 
services,
Incremental Operating Costs
and Training and Workshop
for the Project
(3) 
Interest, 
Commitment 
14,161,000 
Amount 
payable 
pursuant 
to
Charge, and other charges 
Sections 2.04 and 2.05 of this
on the Loan accrued on or 
Agreement, 
respectively, 
in
before the last Payment Date 
accordance with Section 2.07 (c)
immediately preceding the 
of the General Conditions
Closing Date
(4) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to Section
Interest 
Rate 
Collar 
4.05 (c) of the General Conditions
premium
(5) Front-end Fee 
375,000 
Amount 
payable 
pursuant 
to
Section 2.03 of this Agreement in
accordance with Section 2.07 (b)
of the General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
150,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed USD 20,000,000 may be made for payments made
prior to this date but on or after April 1, 2018, for Eligible Expenditures under
Category (1).
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2024.
-11-
SCHEDULE 3
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share").
Level Principal Repayments
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
On each January 1 and July 1
Beginning July 1, 2025 
2%
through January 1, 2050
-12-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Affected Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of the Project,
have experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused
by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter;
(ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of
livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to another location; or (b) the
involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected areas,
resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such persons; and an "Affected
Person" means any of such Affected Persons.
2. 
"Annual Work Plan" means each of the consolidated annual work plans and
budgets for the Project to be prepared or updated and, submitted by the Hezhou
Project Management Office and approved by the Bank, on an annual basis as
provided for in Section I.A.3 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement; and
"Annual Work Plans" means, collectively, all such plans.
3. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
4. 
"Bank's Safeguards Policies" means the operational policies and procedures for
financing of development projects by the Bank at the date of this Agreement and
relating to Environmental Assessment, Natural Habitats, Pest Management,
Indigenous Peoples (Ethnic Minorities), Physical Cultural Resources, Involuntary
Resettlement, Forests, Safety of Dams, Projects on International Waterways, and
Projects in Disputed Areas, as published under http://policies.worldbank.or/ to
the extent they are applicable to the Project.
5. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
6. 
"Dam Safety Panel" means a panel consisting of at least three (3) dam experts to
be recruited and retained according to the provision of Section I.C. 1 of the schedule
to the Project Agreement.
7. 
"Environmental and Social Assessment" means the environmental and social
assessment, acceptable to the Bank, dated September 2017 disclosed on the Bank's
external website (documents & reports) on October 22, 2017.
-13-
8. 
"Environmental Impact Assessment" means the environmental impact assessment
report, acceptable to the Bank, dated October 2017 disclosed on the Bank's
external website (documents & reports) on October 22, 2017.
9. 
"Environmental Management Plan" or "EMP" means the environmental and social
management plan for the Project, acceptable to the Bank, dated October 1, 2017
and disclosed on the Bank's external website (documents & reports) on October
23, 2017, which sets out the environmental protection measures, including chance
finds procedures, in respect of the Project, as well as administrative, monitoring,
supervision and training arrangements to ensure the implementation of said plans,
as said plan may be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of
the Bank, and such term includes all schedules and annexes supplemental thereto,
such as the physical and cultural resources management plan and any additional
EMPs as may be required for Project activities.
10. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project
Financing", dated July 14, 2017.
11. 
"Hezhou Municipal Engineering Administration Bureau" and the acronym
"HMEAB" mean the agency of the Hezhou Municipality responsible for public
works, or any successor thereto.
12. 
"Hezhou Municipal 
Environmental Protection Bureau" and the acronym
"HMEPB" mean the agency of the Hezhou Municipality responsible for
environmental protection, or any successor thereto.
13. 
"Hezhou Municipality" means the Project Implementing Entity's municipality of
Hezhou, or any successor thereto.
14. 
"Hezhou Municipal Water Resources Bureau" and the acronym "HMWRB" mean
the agency of the Hezhou Municipality responsible for water resources, or any
successor thereto.
15. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the reasonable costs incurred for purposes
of Project management and implementation based on the Annual Work Plans
approved in advance by the Bank, on account of office rental, supplies and
consumables, utilities, bank charges, communications, mass media and printing
services, interpretation and translation services, vehicle rental, operation,
maintenance, and insurance, building and equipment maintenance, 
local
transportation, domestic travel, lodging, and subsistence allowances, and salaries
of contractual and temporary staff, but excluding salaries and any salary
supplements of members of the Borrower's, the Project Implementing Entity or
Hezhou Municipality's civil service.
-14-
16. 
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and the Project
Implementing Entity of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to
the Project Agreement.
17. 
"Project Implementation Unit" means any of the units to be established within
HMWRB, HIMEAB and HMEPB and referred to in Section I.A.1(c) of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement, and any successor thereto and the term "Project
Implementation Units" means all such units collectively.
18. 
"Project 
Implementing 
Entity" means the Borrower's 
Guangxi Zhuang
Autonomous Region, or any successor thereto.
19. 
"Project Leading Group" means the leading group referred to in Section I.A. 1(a)
of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and any successor thereto.
20. 
"Project Management Office" and the acronym "PMO" mean the office referred
to in Section I.A. 1(b) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and any successor
thereto.
21. 
"Project Operations Manual" means the Project Implementing Entity's manual
dated April 16, 2018 acceptable to the Bank, which incorporates the Procurement
Plan, procurement manual, financial management manual, the Project's results
framework and performance indicators, technical modules, and other operational
arrangements for the Project, as the same may be revised from time to time with
the prior written agreement of the Bank.
22. 
"Procurement Regulations" means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF
Borrowers", dated July 2016, revised November 2017.
23. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" or "RAP" means the resettlement action plan for the
Project, acceptable to the Bank, dated September 2017 and disclosed on the Bank's
external website (documents & reports) on October 24, 2017 , setting forth, inter
alia: (i) the principles and procedures governing the acquisition of land required
for the Project and related facilities; (ii) actions and measures for the payment of
compensation to Affected Persons and for their resettlement and rehabilitation; (iii)
the criteria and procedures for developing and implementing actions and measures,
acceptable to the Bank, for mitigating the adverse social impacts resulting from the
implementation of activities in locations that are not directly identified in the RAP;
(iv) grievance redress mechanisms; and (v) reporting and monitoring arrangements
to ensure compliance with said plan, as the same may be revised from time to time
with the prior written agreement of the Bank; and such term includes all
attachments and annexes supplemental to said plan, the resettlement plan for linked
-15-
projects dated October 2017 and disclosed on the Bank's external website
(documents & reports) on October 23, 2017 and any additional RAPs as may be
required for Project activities pursuant to RPF.
24. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the resettlement policy
framework for the Project, acceptable to the Bank and disclosed on the Bank's
external website (documents & reports) on December 17, 2017.
25. 
"Safeguards Instruments" means, collectively, the Environmental and Social
Assessment, Environmental Impact Assessment, Environmental Management
Plan, Resettlement Policy Framework and Resettlement Action Plan, as well as
any attachments, schedules and annexes supplemental to said instruments.
26. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the
date of the Loan Agreement" in the General Conditions.
27. 
"Training and Workshops" means the costs of training activities under the Project,
based on the Annual Work Plans approved in advance by the Bank, and attributable
to seminars, workshops, and domestic and overseas training, along with travel and
subsistence allowances for training participants, services of trainers, rental of
training facilities, preparation and reproduction of training materials, and other
activities directly related to course preparation and implementation.
28. 
"Upstream and Downstream Dams" means collectively a set of dams located
upstream or downstream of the Hezhou Municipality as listed in the Project
Operations Manual.
