OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
THE WORLD BANK 
41 Kazybek Bi Str. Bldg. A, 4' floor 
Tel. +7 (727) 3778220
ISRD -IDA IwoRAlmaty, 050010 
Fax +7 (727) 3778276
Central Asia Regional Office
30 June, 2017
Mr. Bakhyt Sultanov
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Astana
Republic of Kazakhstan
Re: East-West Roads Project (Almaty-Khorgos Section):
Western Europe - Western China International Transit Corridor (CAREC - Ib)
(Loan No. 8156-KZ)
Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Dear Mr. Sultanov:
We refer to the Loan Agreement between the Republic of Kazakhstan ("Borrower") and
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development ("Bank") dated October 10, 2012, ("Loan
Agreement"). We also refer to a letter from the Borrower's Ministry of Finance, dated February 10, 2017
requesting the Bank to restructure the Project and to make certain amendments to the Loan Agreement in view
of the proposed restructuring.
We are pleased to inform you that, after due consideration, the Bank proposes to amend the Loan Agreement
as follows:
1. 
The objective of the Project, as set forth in Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement, shall be amended
as follows:
"The objective of the Project is to increase transport efficiency and modernize highway
management along the Selected Road Sections of the Western Europe - Western China Road
Corridor and the Center-South Corridor."
2. 
Part 1 of the Project, as set forth in Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement, shall be amended to read
as follows:
"Part 1: 
Upgrade and construction of the Selected Road Sections
(a) 
Provision of consultants' services and carrying out works to support the upgrade and
construction ofSelected Road Sections within the Western Europe - Western China Road
Corridor and the Center-South Corridor, including associated bypasses, bridges,
interchanges, and ancillary facilities."
(b) 
Provision of consulting services for management and supervision of civil works activities
under the Project."
3. 
The title of Part 2 of the Project as set forth in Schedule 
1 to the Loan Agreement, shall be
amended to read as follows (modifications are shown in italics):
"Part 2: Modernize highway management along the Western Europe-Western China Road
Corridor and Center-South Corridor."
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
4. 
Section I.B. 1 (b) in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement shall be amended as follows
(modifications are shown in italics):
"(b) ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the ESIA, ESIA2,
and any applicable EMPs; and"
5. 
Section I.B.4 in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement shall be amended to include a new paragraph
(d) as follows:
"(d) shall ensure that Chance Find Procedures are followed in cases where physical cultural
resources are found during the course of Project implementation. The Borrower shall further
ensure that Chance Find Procedure clause are included in civil works contracts and that such
clauses are enforced during the course of Project implementation."
6. 
Paragraph 6 in Section I of the Appendix to the Loan Agreement shall be amended to read as
follows:
""Environmental and Social Management Plans" or "ESMPs" means the site-specific documents,
adopted by the Borrower, and satisfactory to the Bank, pursuant to the ESIA, ESIA2 and pursuant
to paragraph 1 of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, in respect of works to be
undertaken by the Borrower under the Project defining inter alia: (i) detailed measures to manage
potential environmental risks and mitigate, reduce and/or offset adverse environmental impacts
associated with the implementation of activities under the Project, together with adequate
institutional, monitoring and reporting arrangements capable of ensuring proper implementation
of, and regular feedback on compliance with; (ii) potential impacts on natural habitats and the
relevant mitigation measures for contractors during works under the Project; and (iii) physical
cultural resources and management plans prepared in accordance with the Borrower's legislation,
as the same may be amended and supplemented from time to time with the Bank's prior written
approval; and "ESMP" refers to one such ESMP."
The terms "Environmental Management Plans" and "EMPs" shall be replaced with
"Environmental and Social Management Plans" and "ESMPs" and every reference to the
Environmental Management Plans or EMPs shall be deemed to refer to Environmental and Social
Management Plans or ESMPs.
7. 
Paragraph 11 in Section I of the Appendix to the Loan Agreement is hereby amended and replaced
in its entirety to read as follows, and every reference to MoTC, or to the Ministry of Transport and
Communication in the Agreement, shall be deemed to refer to MOID:
""MOID" means the Ministry of Investments and Development of the Borrower, or any successor
thereto."
8. 
Paragraph 20 in Section I of the Appendix to the Loan Agreement shall be amended to read as
follows:
""Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the document that the Borrower prepared,
endorsed and disclosed on May 1, 2008, updated and disclosed on March 18, 2009 (disclosed
through Bank's Infoshop on March 25, 2009), and revised and disclosed on April 29, 2016
(disclosed through Bank's InfoShop on May 9, 2016), satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth
resettlement procedures, institutional arrangements, eligibility criteria, entitlements and
compensation, including valuation procedures, public consultation and participation, monitoring
and evaluation, disclosure criteria to be applied in preparing a site-specific Resettlement Action
Plan (RAP) and all the required due diligence tasks to mitigate adverse social impacts under the
Project."
-2-
9. 
The following definitions are hereby added to Section I of the Appendix to the Loan
Agreement, in alphabetical order, to read as follows and the remaining definitions in the
Appendix are re-numbered accordingly:
(i) 
"Center-South Corridor" means the existing road corridor between Astana and
Almaty."
(ii) 
"Chance Find Procedures" means the procedures to be followed in cases where
Physical Cultural Resources are found during the course of Project implementation the
Project which require that the Borrower take the appropriate safeguarding measures,
including temporary suspension of activity in the site and reporting to the public entity in
charge of cultural property."
(iii) 
"Environmental and Social Impact Assessment 2" or "ESIA2" means the
Environmental and Social Assessment for Balkhash-Burylbaital section of the Center-South
corridor, that the Borrower prepared and disclosed on May 26, 2017 (published on the Bank's
external website on May 26, 2017) satisfactory to the Bank, consisting of, inter alia: (i) a
detailed description of the sites where the Project activities are to be carried out; (ii) the
potential and actual adverse environmental and social impacts of the activities referred to
under paragraph (i) above; and (iii) procedures for the preparation of site-specific ESMPs
setting out measures to be taken during the implementation and operation of the Project to
mitigate, eliminate or otherwise offset adverse environmental impacts under the Project.".
(iv) 
"Selected Road Sections" means the Almaty-Khorgos section and the Balkhash-
Burylbaital section of the road Astana-Karaganda-Balkhash-Kurty-Kapshagai-Almaty of the
Center-South Corridor within the Borrower's territory and any other section as may be
selected by the Borrower and approved by the Bank on the basis of agreed technical,
environmental, social and economic analysis."
All the provisions of the Loan Agreement that have not been amended hereby shall remain unchanged
and in full force and effect.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendment on behalf of the Borrower, by
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this letter. The amendment will become effective
on the date upon which the Borrower dispatches to the Bank notice that the execution and delivery of this
amendment on behalf of the Borrower have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental
actions.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Lilia Burunciuc
Regional Director
Central Asia
-3-
CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF KAZA 
TAN
By:
Autho 
Re resentative
Name: 
SUtll/a"v
Title: 
i/v- 
wwe-Îl!U
Date: 
, 
3 
4
-4-
Cc:
Mr. Timur Suleimenov, Minister of National Economy
Mr. Marat Beketayev, Minister of Justice
Mr. Kairat Abdrakhmanov, Minister of Foreign Affairs
Mr. Zhenis Kassymbek, Minister of Investments and Development
Mr. Ruslan Beketayev, Vice-Minister of Finance
Mr. Mereke Pshembayev, Chairman of the Committee for Roads
Mr. Werner Gruber, Executive Director, the World Bank
Mr. Cyril Prissette, Senior Advisor to Executive Director, the World Bank
Ms. Ainur Yertlessova, Advisor to Executive Director, the World Bank
-5-
