* 
OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8862-AL
ENERGY COMMUNITY OF SOUTH EAST EUROPE PROGRAM
Loan Agreement
(Second Additional Financing for Dam Safety Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between REPUBLIC OF
ALBANIA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of twelve million Euro (EUR
12,000,000) ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Fixed Spread subject to Section
3.02(e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the
Program. To this end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the
Project Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions, Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the Project Agreement.
-2-
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that the
Project Implementing Entity's Legislation has been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely in the
opinion of the Bank the ability of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any
of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE V -EFFECTIVENESS; 
TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and
the Project Implementing Entity.
(b) The Co-Financing Agreement has been declared effective.
5.02. 
The other matter mentioned in Section 9.02 (a) (ii) of the General Conditions
consists of, namely that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized by the
Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity in accordance with its terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE VI- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance and Economy.
6.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower's
address is:
Ministry of Finance and Economy
Bulevardi "Deshmoret e Kombit", No. 3
Tirana, Albania; and
(b) the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile: 
E-mail:
355-4222-8494 
sekretariamin@financa.gov.al
-3-
6.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank's address
is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
E-mail:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
msaliml@worldbank.org
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
ALBANIA
By
Authoriz 
Rep sen ative
Name:
Title:
Date: 
O
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
A7Y
Title: 
UTY m-H 
GGe
Date: -7ANE 
j 2,/(9
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) contribute to safeguarding the hydroelectric
dams on the Drin and Mat river cascades in the territory of the Borrower; and (ii) improve
the operational efficiency of said hydroelectric dams and enhance the stability of power
supply in the regional market.
The Project constitutes the fifth phase of the Program, and consists of the following
parts:
Part 1: Dam Safety Infrastructure Investments
1. 
Provision of goods, works and services for dam remedial measures of very high
priority, including: (a) the rehabilitation of: the Fierza hydro power plant spillway gates
and stoplogs, and (b) the rehabilitation of: the Komani hydro power plant spillway gates
and stoplogs.
2. 
Provision of goods, works and services for dam remedial measures of high priority,
including: (a) the rehabilitation of electromechanical equipment in Komani hydro power
plant; and (b) the modernization and improvement of the Project Implementing Entity's
dam safety department.
Part 2: Technical Assistance and Training for Dam Safety
1. 
Provision of services to the PIE to implement an integrated water resources
management approach for the management of the Drin and Mat river basins, as
well as the optimization of power dispatching and water resources management.
2. 
Provision of consultants' services to assist the PIE with procurement, design and
supervision activities under the Project.
3. 
Provision of consultants' services, for the improvement of the
PIE's financial management capacity.
4. 
Provision of consultants' services for the independent Panel of Experts.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Subsidiary Agreement.
1 
(a) 
To facilitate the carrying out 
the Project, the Borrower shall make the
proceeds of the Loan ("Sub-Loan") available to the Project Implementing Entity
under a subsidiary agreement between the Borrower and the Project Implementing
Entity ("Subsidiary Agreement"), under terms and conditions approved by the
Bank, which shall include the provisions which follows below.
(b) 
The proceeds of the Sub-Loan shall: (i) be denominated and repayable in
EURO; (ii) charged interest on the principal amount withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time in accordance with Section 2.05 of this Agreement; (iii)
repayable in accordance with Schedule 3 to this Agreement; (iv) the Commitment
Charge shall be one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the unwithdrawn
Sub-Loan balance; and (v) the Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%
of the Sub-Loan amount.
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish
the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its
provisions.
B. 
Safeguards.
(a) 
The Borrower, through the Ministry of Infrastructure and Energy, shall cause the
Project Implementing Entity to:
(i) 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Environmental Management
Plan which the Borrower shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or
waive any provision thereof without prior approval of the Bank; and
(ii) 
ensure that all technical assistance under the Project shall only be
undertaken pursuant to terms of reference reviewed and found satisfactory
by the Bank, such terms of reference to ensure that the technical assistance
takes into account, and calls for application of the Bank's Safeguard
Policies.
-7-
(b) 
Dam Safety
The Borrower, through the Ministry of Infrastructure and Energy, shall cause, at all times
during Project implementation, the Project Implementing Entity to:
(i) 
maintain the Panel of Experts, with qualifications, resources and
experience, satisfactory to the Bank and which Panel of Experts is
responsible for advising the Borrower on matters related to safety of dams
being rehabilitated under Part 1 of the Project; including reviewing designs
and studies for rehabilitation of said dams and monitoring and reporting on
the rehabilitation works of said dams and the completion of said works;
(ii) 
prior to commencement of tendering for works to be carried out under the
Project:
(A) 
prepare, or cause to be prepared, in accordance with a framework
acceptable to the Bank, detailed and time-bound plans, relating to
said dams, for the: (1) construction supervision and quality
assurance; (2) instrumentation; (3) operation and maintenance;
and (4) Emergency Preparedness Plan; and
(B) 
finalize said plans or cause them to be finalized, taking into
account the Bank's comments thereon.
Thereafter, implement, or cause to be implemented, such plans that have been
accepted by the Bank; and
(iii) 
after completion of construction works at said dams, have independent qualified
professionals carry out periodic safety inspections of said dams.
(c) 
Grievance Redress Mechanism
The Borrower shall, through the Ministry of Infrastructure and Energy, and shall cause the
Project Implementing Entity to, maintain, throughout Project implementation, and
publicize the availability of a grievance redress mechanism, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, to hear and determine fairly and in good faith all complaints raised
in relation to the Project, and take all measures necessary to implement the determinations
made by such mechanism in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Section II. 
Project Monitorin2 Reporting and Evaluation
The Borrower, through the Ministry of Infrastructure and Energy, shall cause the
PIE to furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than forty-five (45) days after the
end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar semester.
-8-
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods and Works. 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines,
and with the provisions of this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works. The Procurement Plan shall
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used:
Procurement Method
(a) Shopping
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based
-9-
Selection, which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used:
Procurement Method
(a) Quality-Based Selection
(b) Least Cost Selection
(c) Single Source Selection of Consultants' firms
(d) Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications
(e) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines
for the Selection of Individual Consultants
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
All contracts shall be subject to the Bank's Prior Review.
- 10 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and
in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the
Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible
Expenditures and (b) pay the Front-end Fee; in the amount allocated and, if
applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category of the following
table:
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in EURO) 
(exclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods and works for 
10,370,000 
100%
Part 1.1 (a), Part 1.2 (a),
Part 1.2 (b), Part 2.2, Part
2.3 and Part 2.4 of the
Project 
and 
consultant
services for Part 2.2, Part
2.3 and Part 2.4 of the
Project
(2) Goods and works for 
1,600,000 
20%
Part 1.1 (b) of the Project
(3) Front-end Fee 
30,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
12,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the Signature Date.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2020.
- 11 
SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share").
Level Principal Repayments
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning May 15, 2025
through May 15, 2040 
3.13%
On November 15, 2040 
2.97%
- 12 
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Additional Loan Agreement" or "AF 1 Agreement" means the Loan Agreement
for the first Additional Financing for the Project dated February 17, 2012, as
amended (Loan No. 8111-AL).
2. 
"Albanian Committee of Large Dams" means the Borrower's Committee of Large
Dams, established by virtue of Law No. 8681, dated February 11, 2000 "On the
Protection, Construction, Utilization and Maintenance of Large Dams, as
amended.
3. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
5. 
"Co-financier" means European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
6. 
"Co-financing" means, for purposes of paragraph 16 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions the following, namely an amount of Euro 6,100,000 to be
provided by the Co-financier to assist in financing the Project.
7. 
"Co-financing Agreement" means the amendment to the Co-financing Agreement
to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development providing for an amount of Euro 6,100,000 to be
provided by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development to assist in
financing the Project.
8. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in May 2011 and
revised in July 2014.
9. 
"Dam Safety Institutional Plan" means the plan dated March 9, 2018 adopted by
the Project Implementing Entity addressing dam safety issues on the Drin and Mat
river cascades and ways to remedy them.
10. 
"Emergency Preparedness Plan" means the plan dated February 27, 2017 prepared
by the Project Implementing Entity, satisfactory to the Bank, specifying the roles
of responsible parties when dam failure is considered imminent, or when expected
operational flow release threatens downstream life, property, or economic
operations that depend on river flow levels.
- 13 
11. 
"Environmental Management Plan" means the plan adopted by the Borrower on
May 15, 2008, satisfactory to the Bank, consisting of the set of mitigation,
monitoring, and institutional measures to be taken to eliminate adverse
environmental and social impacts, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels,
as well as actions needed to implement these measures, as the same may be updated
from time with the previous agreement from Bank.
12. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project
Financing", dated July 14, 2017, with the modifications set forth in Section II of
this Appendix.
13. 
"Original Agreement" means the Financing Agreement for the Dam Safety Project
between the Borrower and the Bank dated July 2, 2008, as amended (Credit No.
4480-ALB);
14. 
"Panel of Experts" means the panel of at least 3 experts in the various technical
fields relevant to the safety aspects of the Fierza, Komani, Vau I Dejes and Shkopet
dams, established pursuant to terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and
responsible for reviewing, 
and advising the Borrower and the Project
Implementing Entity on matters related to dam safety and other critical aspects of
the dams, their appurtenant structures, catchment areas, areas surrounding the
reservoir, and downstream areas.
15. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means, the Bank's Guidelines for procurement of
goods, works and non-consulting services under IBRD loans, IDA credits and
grants by World Bank Borrowers dated January 2011 and revised May 2014.
16. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
March 19, 2018 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines
and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
17. 
"Program" means the program designed to support the Energy Community for
South East Europe as set forth in the Energy Community Treaty dated October 23,
2005, through a series of Adaptable Program Loans to Bank member countries in
South East Europe.
18. 
"Project Implementing Entity" or "PIE" means the Albanian Power Corporation,
KESH, an autonomous company established pursuant to the Project Implementing
Entity's Legislation.
19. 
"Project Implementing Entity's Legislation" means the Law of the Borrower No.
7926, dated April 20, 1995, as amended.
- 14 
20. 
"Project Management Unit" means the unit charged with managing the
implementation of the Project, established within the Project Implementing Entity.
21. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the
date of the Loan Agreement" in the General Conditions.
22. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.A of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the
proceeds of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
Section 5.13 (Procurement) is deleted in its entirety and the remaining section in
Article V is renumbered accordingly.
3. 
Paragraphs 84 (Procurement Plan) and 85 (Procurement Regulations) in the
Appendix are deleted in their entirety and the subsequent paragraphs are renumbered
accordingly.
