OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8806-CO
Loan Agreement
(Second Sustainable Development and Green Growth Development Policy Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date, between REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to provide this financing on
the basis, inter alia, of: (i) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and
which are described in Section I.A of Schedule I to this Agreement; and (ii) the Borrower's
maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework. 
The Borrower and the Bank
therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of five hundred million Dollars, as
such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion ("Loan").
2.02. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.04. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are January15 and July 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
2.07. 
(a) 
Without prejudice to other provisions of this Agreement, the Borrower may request
a CAT Transaction to mitigate the effects of an Applicable Disaster Event any time
during the period beginning on the first withdrawal by the Borrower and ending
on the first Principal Payment Date of the Loan. The CAT Transaction shall cover
any Trigger Event which occurs within the CAT Protection Risk Period. The
maximum amount payable upon the occurrence of a Trigger Event for a CAT
Transaction shall not exceed an amount equal to the Withdrawn Loan Balance.
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank the CAT Transaction Costs for each such CAT
Transaction in such amount(s) or at such rate(s) as the Bank may determine. Such
CAT Transaction Costs shall be either: (i) payable as a lump sum on demand or
added to the interest amount payable on each Payment Date related to the CAT
Protection Risk Period; or (ii) expressed as a percentage per annum and added to
the interest rate payable on each Payment Date related to the CAT Protection Risk
Period, provided that, at the request of the Borrower and in the Bank's sole.
discretion, the Bank may authorize the payment of the CAT Transaction Costs
hereunder on certain Payment Dates and/or defer such payments for a period
acceptable to the Bank, but not beyond the first Payment Date following the
termination of the CAT Transaction.
(c) 
A CAT Transaction requested by the Borrower as provided in this paragraph shall
be executed on such terms and conditions as may be provided in a Supplemental
Agreement.
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.05 of the General Conditions, the
Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of
this Article 11 as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.
ARTICLE IHl -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower deplares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this
end, and further to Section 5.05 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework and the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program; and
(b) 
without limitation upon paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall promptly
inform the Bank of any situation that would have the effect of materially reversing
the objectives of the Program or any action taken under the Program including any
action specified in Section I of Schedule I to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a situation has
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be
carried out.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that the Bank
is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program and
with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
-2-
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance and Public Credit.
6.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower's address is:
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Carrera 8 No. 6 C 38 Bogota D.C Piso 30
and
(b) the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile: 
E-mail:
(571) 350 9344 
Desmin@minhacienda.gov.co
6.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-3-
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
ByM
B 
Autrized Representative
Name: A\&S MWnCA'tD \/a& W
Title: tC(h
1k WIRf V TciAV1 Md
By
Authorized Repres 
tive and
Technical Coordinator of the Program
Name: 
?, tMAJO K, 0\
Title: GUM! DR-dD 
i 
1 %nnina
Date: STommd1 1. U1
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: \SS:k-t h 0 
S LE 
.J
Title: 
(pp ,ny healk6EV-
Date: -JOU(L 
I L 
lcof
-4-
SCHEDULE I
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section 1. 
Actions under the Program
A. 
Actions Taken Under the Program. The actions taken by the Borrower under the
Program include the following:
1. 
The Borrower, through its Legislative branch, has approved the Paris Agreement, which
establishes the legal framework for an international cooperation on climate change,
including, inter alia: (a) the adoption every five years of progressive national targets to
reduce greenhouse gas emissions; (b) the option to engage in cooperative approaches to
use internationally transferred mitigation outcomes to achieve national targets; and (c)
enhancing action on adaptation through sharing information and good practices, improving
scientific knowledge on climate and early warning systems, and periodically updating a
national communication on climate adaptation, as evidenced by the Borrower's Law No.
1844 dated July 14, 2017, and duly published in the Official Gazette.
2. 
The Borrower has established a regulatory framework for the promotion of clean energy
transportation which, inter alia: (a) defines incentives for the use of bicycles and for
increasing the number of trips using bicycles; (b) regulates the registry and technical and
safety inspections applicable to motorcycles, three-wheeled motorcycles, and quad-trucks;
and (c) sets policy guidelines for the co-financing by the Borrower's national government
of local public transport investments, as evidenced by the Borrower's Law No. 1811 (Ley
Probici), dated October 21, 2016, and duly published in the Official Gazette; Resolution
No. 160, dated February 2, 2017, issued by the Borrower's Ministry of Transport, and duly
published in the Official Gazette; and CONPES No. 3882, dated January 10, 2016,
respectively.
3. 
The Borrower has strengthened its legal and institutional framework for promoting non-
conventional energies by: (a) defining FENOGE as a stand-alone Trust Account (Fiducia
mercantil - patrimonio aut6nomo); (b) defining FENOGE's funding sources, eligibility
criteria for allocating funds, composition and functions of its Board of Directors, and the
criteria for selecting the fiduciary entity that will manage FENOGE's financial resources;
and (c) setting criteria that prioritizes the use of non-conventional energies in the National
Rural Electrification Plan, as evidenced by Article 368 of the Borrower's Law 1819, dated
December 29, 2016, and duly published in the Official Gazette; Borrower's Decree No.
1543, dated September 16, 2017, and duly published in the Official Gazette; and
Borrower's Law Decree No. 884, dated May 26, 2017, and duly published in the Official
Gazette, respectively.
4. 
The Borrower has adopted a risk management policy on chemical substances that
establishes: (a) a program to manage chemical substances for industrial uses; (b) a program
to prevent major chemical accidents; and (c) measures for strengthening risk management
capacity of chemical substances, as evidenced by CONPES No. 3868, dated October 5,
2016.
-5-
5. 
The Borrower has adopted measures to increase forests protection and improve forest
management information and monitoring by: (a) establishing a system of payments for
environmental services; (b) setting up the organization and functions of the National
Information System of Forests (SNIF), the National Forests Inventory (IFN), and the
Forests and Carbon Monitoring Systems; and (c) establishing the Forests for Peace
Program, and the Intersectoral Commission for Deforestation Control and Comprehensive
Management for Protecting Natural Forests, as evidenced by the Borrower's Law Decree
No. 870, dated May 25, 2017, and duly published in the Official Gazette; Borrower's
Decree No. 1655 dated October 10, 2017, and duly published in the Official Gazette;
Resolution No. 470, dated February 28 2017, issued by the Borrower's Ministry of
Environment and Sustainable Development, and duly published in its official website, and
Decree No. 1257, dated July 25, 2017, and duly published in the Official Gazette,
respectively.
6. 
The Borrower has taken measures to strengthen air quality management by: (a) approving
a resolution that, upon publication, will update outdoor air quality norms by setting new
progressive maximum permissible levels (starting in 2018 through 2030) for "criteria
pollutants" including PM2.5; (b) increasing the biofuel component to 9 percent in diesel
(B-9); and (c) revising the parameters and requirements of ethanol in gasoline, as evidenced
by Resolution No. 2254, dated November 1, 2017, issued by the Borrower's Ministry of
Environment and Sustainable Development; Resolution No. 40351, dated April 28, 2017
(which modified Resolution No. 182142/2007), issued by the Borrower's Ministry of
Mines and Energy, and duly published in the Official Gazette; and Resolution No. 40527,
dated June 7, 2017, issued by the Borrower's Ministry of Mines and Energy, and duly
published in the Official Gazette, respectively.
7. 
The Borrower has established measures to improve access to, and quality of, service for
potable water and sanitation in rural areas, and improve the formulation of water and
sanitation investments, by: (a) regulating appropriate requirements for the provision of
potable water and sanitation services; (b) regulating appropriate solutions for domestic
wastewater management; and (c) issuing preparation guidelines for water and sanitation
sector investments by entities that request financial support from the Borrower's national
government, as evidenced by the Borrower's Decree No. 1898, dated November 23, 2016,
and duly published in the Official Gazette, and Resolution No. 1063, dated December 30,
2016, issued by the Borrower's Ministry of Housing, City, and Territory, and duly
published in the Official Gazette, respectively.
8. 
The Borrower has: (a) updated operation standards for sanitary landfills; and (b) updated
regulations for complementary solid waste treatment activities; as evidenced by the
Borrower's Decree No. 1784, dated November 2, 2017, and duly published in the Official
Gazette.
9. 
The Borrower has established measures to improve solid waste management by
establishing the operational framework for the reuse of solid waste and the timeline for the
compliance of waste pickers as formal suppliers in the reuse activity, as evidenced by the
Borrower's Decree No. 596, dated April 11, 2016, and duly published in the Official
-6-
Gazette; and Resolution No. 276, dated April 29, 2016, issued by the Borrower's Ministry
of Housing, City and Territory, and duly published in the Official Gazette.
-7-
Section fl. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by
notice to the Borrower.
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from
which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan
(expressed in Dollars)
(1) Single Withdrawal 
500,000,000
Tranche
TOTAL AMOUNT 
500,000,000
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.
1. 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless: (a) the Bank has
received payment in full of the Front-end Fee; and (b) the Bank is satisfied: (i) with the
Program being carried out by the Borrower; and (ii) with the adequacy of the Borrower's
macroeconomic policy framework.
D. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is December 31, 2018.
SCHEDULE 2
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on July 15, 2029.
-9-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Applicable Disaster Event" means any meteorological or geological event or events
affecting health issues such as mortality, morbidity and longevity, including, without
limitation, epidemics and pandemics.
2. 
"CAT Protection Risk Period" means, with respect to a CAT Transaction, the risk coverage
period applicable to such CAT Transaction as specified in the relevant Supplemental
Agreement.
3. 
"CAT Transaction" means a catastrophic risk transfer transaction entered into on such
terms and conditions as may be specified in a Supplemental Agreement pursuant to the
terms of Section 2.07 of the Agreement.
4. 
"CAT Transaction Costs" means the costs of executing the CAT Transaction by the Bank
at the request of the Borrower (as specified in Section 2.07(b)), which may include: (i) the
CAT Transaction premium for the coverage of risks of Applicable Disaster Events; (ii)
upfront costs and expenses of setting up and executing the CAT Transaction; (iii) the
Bank's applicable transaction fees; and (iv) the financial costs resulting from a deferred
payment of the CAT Transaction Costs pursuant to Section 2.07 (b).
5. 
"CONPES" means Consejo Nacional de Politica Econ6mica y Social, the Borrower's
council for national economic and social policy.
6. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Development Policy Financing", dated July 14,
2017.
7. 
"FENOGE" means Fondo de Energias No Convencionales y Gesti6n Eficiente de la
Energia, the Borrower's Fund for Non-Conventional Energy and Efficient Energy
Management, aimed at financing alternative energy resources and an efficient energy
management, as established pursuant to Article 10 of the Borrower's Law No. 1715 of May
13, 2014, published in the Official Gazette on May 13, 2014.
8. 
"Paris Agreement" means the agreement concerning greenhouse gas emissions mitigation,
adaptation and finance, adopted on December 12, 2015, at the twenty-first session of the
Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
held in Paris from November 30, 2015 to December 13, 2015.
9. 
"Program" means: the program of objectives, policies, and actions set forth or referred to
in the letter dated November 2, 2017 from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from
the Bank in support of the Program during its execution and comprising actions taken,
-10-
including those set forth in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, consistent with the
program's objectives.
10. 
"Official Gazette" means the Borrower's Diario Oficial.
11. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the date of the Loan
Agreement" in the General Conditions.
12. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category
entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of
Schedule I to this Agreement.
13. 
"Supplemental Agreement" means an agreement between the Borrower and the Bank
setting forth the terms and conditions of any CAT Transaction, as provided in Section 2.07
of this Agreement.
14. 
"Trigger Event" means an Applicable Disaster Event determined to be eligible to trigger a
payout from the Bank to the Borrower in accordance with the terms of the CAT
Transaction.
-ll-
