OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8826-UZ
Loan Agreement
(2nd Additional Financing for Energy Efficiency Facility for
Industrial Enterprises Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NLIBER 8826-UZ
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between REPUBLIC OF
UZBEKISTAN 
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purposes of providing
additional financing for activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix
to this Agreement). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.0L 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, or in Section I of
the Appendix to this Agreement.
1.03. 
Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project Implementing Entity shall
be deemed as a reference to the Participating Bank(s).
ARTICLE H -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of two hundred million United
States Dollars, (US$200,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to
time through a Currency Conversion ("Loan"), to assist in Financing the project
described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25/o) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as
may apply following a Conversion: subject to Section I 02(e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
-2-
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3 01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall carry out Part A of the Project through MoE and cause Part B
of the Project to be carried out by the Participating Bank(s) in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and the Project Agreements.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
The Borrower has taken or permitted to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with the performance by any of the Participating Banks
of its respective obligations under the respective Project Agreement.
(b) 
The respective Participating Bank's Legislation has been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of any of the Participating
Banks to perform any of its obligations under the respective Project
Agreement.
(c) 
The Operations Manual has been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived without the Bank's prior consent.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that any
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreements have been executed on behalf of the Borrower
and the respective Participating Bank.
(b) 
The Operations Manual satisfactory to the Bank has been updated and
adopted by MoE and the Participating Banks in its revised form.
(c) 
An opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Bank of counsel acceptable to
the Bank have been furnished to the Bank showing:
(i) 
on behalf of each Participating Bank, that the respective Project
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified, and executed and
delivered on its behalf and is legally binding upon it in accordance
with its terms and all necessary governmental and corporate
action; and
(ii) 
that each respective Subsidiary Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the respective
Participating Bank and is legally binding upon the Borrower and
each Participating Bank in accordance with its respective terms.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date of one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the Signature Date.
5.03. 
For purposes of Section 9.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement (other than those providing for
payment obligations) shall terminate is 20 years after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE VT -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower's address is:
Ministry of Finance
Mustakilik Square 5
Tashkent 100008
Republic of Uzbekistan; and
(b) 
the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile:
11 6360 1K BOL 
(998-71) 239-1225
(998-71) 244-5643
6.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
-4-
(b) 
the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
By
Authdi6ed Reprentative
Name: DJAMISHID KUCHKAROV
Title: DEPUTY PRIME MINISTER
MINISTER OF FINANCE
Date: MAY 17, 2018
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DE 
0 
T
By
Authorized Representative
Name: CYRIL MnLLER
Title: REGIONAL VICE PRESIDENT
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
Date: MAY 17, 2018
-5-
SCHEDULE1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve energy efficiency in industrial
enterprises by designing and establishing a financing mechanism for energy saving
investments.
The Project consists of the following parts included in the Original Project:
Part A: Development of Energy Efficiency Capacity
1. 
Development of the energy efficiency strategy for industrial enterprises in
Uzbekistan, through the provision of consulting services.
2. 
Development and implementation of an energy efficiency communication strategy
and outreach programs, through the provision of consulting services.
3. 
Enhancing the energy efficiency capacity of selected industries, banks, industry
banks and energy professionals, through the provision of consulting services and
Training.
4. 
Strengthening the capacity of MoE and the PCU for Project management,
coordination and monitoring and evaluation, through the provision of goods,
consulting services and Training.
Part B: Credit Line to Participating Banks
Establishment and operation of a credit facility for the Participating Banks for the
provision of Sub-loan(s) to Beneficiaries, for the purposes of enabling such Beneficiaries
to finance the costs related to the carrying out of industnal energy efficiency Sub-projects.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section 1. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
I. 
The Borrower shall: (a) vest the overall responsibility for the coordination of the
Project and the carrying out of Part A of the Project in MoE; and (b) cause the Participating
Banks to carry out Part B of the Project.
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that MoE and the Participating Banks shall carry out the
Project in accordance with the Operations Manual and, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, shall not amend or waive any provision of the Operations Manual.
3. 
For the purposes of assisting MoE in the implementation of Part A of the Project,
and in order to ensure the proper coordination of the execution of Part B of the Project, the
Borrower shall maintain, within MoE and throughout the duration of the Project, the PCU
with adequate resources and facilities, and professional staff in adequate numbers whose
qualifications, experience and terms of reference shall be acceptable to the Bank.
4. 
For the purposes of assisting the Participating Banks in the implementation of Part
B of the Project, the Borrower shall cause each Participating Bank to establish (as
applicable) and thereafter maintain, throughout the duration of the Project, a PIU within
each Participating Bank, with adequate resources and facilities, and professional staff in
adequate numbers whose qualifications, experience and terms of reference shall be
acceptable to the Bank.
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of each Participating Bank's respective part of the
Project, the Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the Loan available to each
Participating Bank in accordance with on-lending terms set forth in an individual
subsidiary agreement between the Borrower represented, respectively, by MoF and MoE,
and each of the Participating Banks, under terms and conditions approved by the Bank
(collectively the "Subsidiary Agreements") which shall include, inter alia, the following
terms and conditions: (a) the principal amount of the Sub-financing shall be in Dollars and
shall have a maturity of up to twenty-five (25) years, including a grace period of five (5)
years; (b) interest shall be charged, on the pnncipal amount thereof withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, at a rate equal to 6-month L[BOR plus an on-lending margin
reflecting the admimstrative costs and risk margin of the MoF as set forth in the Operations
Manual; (c) the commitment charge on the unwithdrawn Sub-financing balance shall be
payable at the rate set forth in Section 2.04 of the Loan Agreement; (d) the Participating
Bank shall provide a minimum equivalent to 25% of the amount of the Sub-financing for
co-Loan the Sub-projects; and (e) the Participating Bank shall utilize the proceeds of the
Sub-financing in accordance with this Agreement and the Project Agreements, and the
Subsidiary Agreements.
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the
Subsidiary Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any the
Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Participating Banks to provide sufficient information
to potential Beneficiaries regarding the proposed Sub-loans.
4. 
The Borrower shall, unless agreed otherwise with the Bank, ensure that the
aggregate amount of Sub-loans provided by one or more Participating Bank out of the
proceeds of the 
Loan shall not exceed, 
respectively: 
(a) ten million Dollars
(US$10,000,000) equivalent to any individual Beneficiary; and (b) thirty million Dollars
(US$30,000,000) equivalent to any group of connected Beneficianes.
C. 
Sub-projects
I. 
The Borrower shall cause the respective Participating Bank to make Sub-loans to
Beneficiaries in accordance with eligibility criteria and procedures acceptable to the Bank,
as set forth in the Operations Manual.
2. 
For the purposes of carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall cause
each Participating Bank to:
(a) 
make each Sub-loan under a Sub-loan Agreement with the respective
Beneficiary on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank as set forth
in the Operations Manual, including, without limitation, the terms and
conditions set forth in the Schedule to the Project Agreement;
(b) 
exercise its rights under each Sub-loan Agreement in such manner as to
accomplish the purposes of the Project and to protect its interests and those
of the Borrower and the Bank, including the right to:
(i) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to use
the proceeds of the Sub-loan. or declare to be immediately
due and payable all or any part of the amount of the Sub-
loan then withdrawn, upon the Beneficiary's failure to
perform any of its obligations under the Sub-loan
Agreement: and
-8-
(it) 
require each Beneficiary to: (A) carry out its Sub-project
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
sound 
technical, 
economic, 
financial, 
managerial,
environmental 
and 
social 
standards 
and 
practices
satisfactory to the Bank, including in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable
to borrowers of Loan proceeds other than the Borrower;
(B) provide, promptly as needed, the resources required
for the Sub-project; (C) procure the goods, works and
services to be financed out of the Sub-loan in accordance
with the provisions of the Operations Manual; (D)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate in accordance with indicators
acceptable to the Bank, the progress of the Sub-project
and the achievement of its objectives; (E) (1) maintain a
financial management system and prepare financial
statements 
in accordance with consistently applied
accounting standards both in a manner adequate to reflect
the operations, resources and expenditures related to the
Sub-project as set forth in the Operations Manual; and (2)
have such financial statements audited by independent
auditors as set forth in the Operations Manual, in
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards
as set forth in the Operations Manual, and promptly
furnish the statements as so audited to the respective
Participating Bank and the Borrower; (F) enable the
respective Participating Bank, the Borrower and the Bank
to inspect the Sub-project, its operation and any relevant
records and documents; and (G) prepare and furnish to the
respective Participating Bank, the Borrower and the Bank
all such information as the respective Participating Bank,
the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably request relating
to the foregoing;
(c) 
appraise Sub-projects and supervise, monitor and report on the carrying
out thereof by the Beneficiaries, in accordance with the Operations
Manual;
(d) 
ensure that each Sub-project shall comply with environmental and social
safeguard review procedures set forth in the Operations Manual, as well
as with the ESMF; and
(e) 
include in the Sub-loan Agreement that the Sub-project shall not involve
any involuntary resettlement or land acquisition.
-9-
3. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause the respective
Participating Bank shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Sub-loan Agreement or
any of its provisions-
D. 
Safeguards
I. 
The Borrower shall cause the respective Participating Bank to: (i) take all
necessary measures to implement the Project in accordance with the Operations Manual,
the Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) and the Environmental
Management Plans (EMPs), and shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or the ESMF
ancor the EMPs, without prior approval of the Bank; (ii) ensure that no Sub-project shall
involve any involuntary resettlement or land acquisition; and (iii) ensure that adequate
information on the implementation of the ESMF and the EMPs is suitably included in the
Project Reports.
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Participating Bank shall not finance any Sub-
project with a Sub-loan unless: (i) the Sub-project has been screened and approved by the
Participating Bank in accordance with the provisions of the Operations Manual and the
ESMF; and (ii) as the case may be, the Sub-project has been subjected to an environmental
analysis and its environmental impacts have been addressed in a manner satisfactory to the
Participating Bank in accordance with the provisions of the Operations Manual and the
ESMF.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than one
month after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar semester.
Section [II. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and
in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower
may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to Finance Eligible Expenditures in the amount
allocated and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category of the
following table:
- [0-
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) 
financed
(exclusive of Taxes other
than Withheld Taxes)
(1) Goods, non- 
1,000,000 
100%
consulting services,
consulting services,
Training and
Incremental Operating
Costs for Parts A.2, A.3
and A.4 of the Project
(2) Sub-loans for Sub- 
199,000,000 
75%
projects under Part B of
the Project
TOTAL AMOUNT 
200,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made from
the Loan Account for payment made prior to the Signature Date and until the Bank has
received payment in full of the Front-End Fee.
2. 
.
The Closing Date is January 31, 2023.
Section IV. 
Other Undertakings
Participating Banks
A. 
The Borrower shall ensure that each Participating Bank shall remain in full
compliance with all prudential norms and regulations of the Central Bank of the Borrower,
in particular as regards to: (1) capital adequacy; (2) asset quality; (3) management and
governance; (4) liquidity; and (5) profitability and efficiency.
B. 
1. 
Unless otherwise agreed with the Bank, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Participating Banks shall maintain compliance with the following criteria: (a) the net loans-
to-total deposits shall be below 200%; (b) maintaining a positive return on the assets; (c)
the non-performing loans shall be below 10% of gross loans excluding state guaranteed
loans; and (d) the non-performing Sub-loans under the Project shall be below 10% or less
than 3 Sub-loans.
2. 
For purposes of paragraph B. I above:
(a) 
the term "net loans" means total volume of loan exposure minus provisions
to cover possible losses;
(b) 
the term "total deposits" means total volume of all deposits of the
customers including the state organizations, social organizations, legal
entities and individuals;
(c) 
the term "return on assets" means ratio of net profit to average weighted
balance of assets;
(d) 
the term "non-performing loans" means impaired loans according to
international financial reporting standards (IFRS) minus loan impairment
provisions; and
(e) 
the term "state guaranteed loans" means loans provided under the
guarantee of the Republic of Uzbekistan.
C. 
The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any adverse change in the
condition of any of the Participating Banks from that prevailing as of the date of this
Agreement so as to materially and adversely affect the ability of the Participating Bank to
perform any of its obligations under the respective Project Agreement, or to repay the Sub-
Loan pursuant to the terms of the Subsidiary Agreement.
Amendment to the Additional Financing Agreement
D. 
The Additional Financing Agreement is amended as follows:
1. 
The Schedule 1 of the Additional Financing Agreement is modified to read as set
forth in the Schedule I to this Agreement.
- 12 
SCHEDULE 3
Level Principal Repayments
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning May 15, 2023 
2.50%
through November 15, 2042
- 13 
APPENDIX
Definitions
"Additional Financing Agreement" means the Financing Agreement (Credit No.
5241-UZ) between the Borrower and the International Development Association
for the Original Project, dated July 18, 2013, as such agreement may be amended
from time to time.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
3. 
"ASAIKA Bank" means the State Joint-Stock Commercial Bank "ASAKA" (Joint-
Stock Company) duly established by virtue of the Resolution of the Cabinet of
Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan No.424 dated November 11, 1995, and
duly operating in the Republic of Uzbekistan by virtue of the Charter approved by
the Minutes No.1 dated June 30, 2014 of the General Meeting of Shareholders and
registered by the Central Bank of the Republic of Uzbekistan on August 11, 2014
under registration No.53- License No.53 for carrying out banking operations issued
by the Central Bank of Uzbekistan on October 21, 2017 (collectively referred to as
"ASAKA Bank Legislation"), or any successor thereto.
4. 
"ASIA ALLLANCE BANK" means The Joint-Stock Commercial Bank -ASIA
ALLIANCE BANK", duly established by virtue of the Constitutive Agreement
dated December 25, 2008, and operating in the Republic of Uzbekistan by virtue
of the Charter (a new addition) approved by the Minutes dated January 31, 2017
of the Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders and registered by the
Central Bank of the Republic of Uzbekistan on March 10, 2017 under Registration
No.79; License No.79 for carrying out banking operations issued by the Central
Bank of the Republic of Uzbekistan on October 21, 2017 (collectively referred to
as "ASIA ALLIANCE BANK Legislation"), or any successor thereto;
c5. 
"Beneficiary" means an industrial enterprise duly established and operating in the
Republic of Uzbekistan which has met the eligibility criteria specified in the
Operations Manual, and to which or for whose benefit a Sub-loan is made or
proposed to be made; and the term "Beneficiaries" means, collectively, all such
Beneficiaries.
6. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
7. 
"Category A Subproject" means a Sub-project which requires a full environmental
impact assessment pursuant to the provisions of the Operations Manual.
- 14 
8. 
"EMP(s)" means the environmental management plan(s) to be prepared by a
Beneficiary in accordance with the Environmental and Social Management
Framework, to define: (i) the measures to eliminate, mitigate or offset any adverse
environmental impacts of its Sub-project; and (ii) the actions needed to implement
such measures.
9 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" means the environmental
and social management framework prepared and adopted by the Borrower for the
purposes of the Project dated November 28, 2017, acceptable to the Bank,
describing: (i) the procedures, principles and guidelines to screen all Sub-projects
proposed for financing under the Project; and (ii) in case such screening shall
reveal that a Sub-project may have any negative environmental impact, the
procedures, principles and guidelines which shall be complied with in order to
prepare an environmental assessment and to address the environmental impacts of
such Sub-project through mitigation measures and/or an EMP, as appropriate, as
such framework may be amended from time to time with the prior agreement of
the Bank.
10. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for [BRD Financing, Investment Project
Financing", dated July 14, 2017.
I. 
"HAMKORBANK" 
means 
the 
"HAMKORBANK" 
Open 
Joint 
Stock
Commercial Bank, duly established by virtue of the Constitutive Agreement dated
January 14, 1991, and operating in the Republic of Uzbekistan by virtue of the
Charter approved by the Minutes dated July 30, 2008 of the General Meeting of
Shareholders and registered by the Central Bank of the Republic of Uzbekistan on
August 21, 2008 under Registration No.64; License No.64 for carrying out banking
operations issued by the Central Bank of the Republic of Uzbekistan on December
24, 2007 (collectively referred to as "HAMKORBANK Legislation"), or any
successor thereto.
12. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the expenditures incurred by the PCU for
the purpose of Project implementation on account of PCU support staff salaries,
office supplies, office equipment maintenance and repair, rental of vehicles,
communication services and translation services, other miscellaneous costs
directly associated with the Project implementation, all based on periodic budgets
acceptable to the Bank.
11 
"INVEST FINANCE BANK' mcans the Joint Stock Conunercial Bank "Invest
Finance Bank", duly established by virtue of the resolution in Minutes No.2 of the
General Meeting of Founders dated October 26, 2007 and duly operating in the
Republic of Uzbekistan by virtue of the Charter that was also approved by the
Minutes No. 2 dated October 26, 2007 of the General Meeting of Founders and
registered by the Central Bank of the Republic of Uzbekistan on December 24,
- 15 
2007 under registration No. 75; License No. 75 for carrying out banking operations
issued by the Central Bank of Uzbekistan on October 21, 2017 (referred to as
"INVEST FINANCE BANK Legislation"), or any successor thereto;
14. 
"MoE" means the Ministry of Economy of the Borrower or any successor thereto.
15. 
"MoF" means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower or any successor thereto.
15. 
"Operations Manual" means the Project operations manual adopted by the
Borrower in connection with the Original Project dated July 20, 2013, as updated,
acceptable to the Bank, and setting forth, inter alia: (a) the eligibility criteria and
the operational and administrative procedures in respect of the preparation,
processing, financing implementation and supervision of Sub-projects, (b) the
model form of the Sub-loan Agreement(s); and (c) the financial management,
procurement, 
Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines, 
disbursement, 
environmental
management, monitoring and evaluation, and reporting arrangements for the
Project, as said manual may be amended from time to time with approval of the
Bank, and such term includes any schedules to the Operations Manual.
16. 
-Original Financing Agreement" means the Financing Agreement (Credit No.
4745-UZ) between the Borrower and the International Development Association
for the Project, dated August 18, 2011, as such agreement may be amended from
time to time.
17. 
"Original Project" means the Project described in Schedule 
1 to the original
Financing Agreement as amended pursuant to Additional Financing Agreement 
18. 
"Participating Banks" means collectively: (a) the ASAKA 
Bank; (b) the
HAMKORBANK, (c) the UZPROMSTROYBANK, (d) INVEST FINANCE
(InFin) BANK, and (e) ASIA ALLIANCE BANK, and "Participatmg Bank"
means individually any one of these banks.
19. 
"Participating 
Bank's Legislation" 
means the legislation governing 
the
establishment and operation of the Participating Banks, namely: (a) ASAKA Bank
Legislation with regard to ASAKA Bank; (b) HAMKORBANK Legislation with
regard to HAMKORBANK; (c) UZPROMSTROYBANK Legislation with regard
to UZPROMSTROYBANK, (d) INVEST FINANCE BANK Legislation with
regard to INVESTMENT FINANCE BANK, and (e) ASIA ALLIANCE BANK
Legislation with regard to ASIA ALLIANCE BANK.
20. 
"Procurement Regulations" means for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF
Borrowers", dated July 2016, revised November 2017.
-16-
21. 
"PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit established by the Borrower within
MoE on January 11, 2012 for the purposes of the management of Part A of the
Project and overall Project coordination as referred to in Section I.A.3 of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
22. 
"P[U" 
means the Project Implementation Unit established 
within each
Participating Bank for the purposes of the coordination and implementation of Part
B of the Project and referred to in Section I.A.4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
23. 
"Project Agreement(s)" means the agreement(s) between the Bank and each
Participating Bank of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time; and such terms includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
respective Project Agreement.
24. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the
date of the Loan Agreement" in the General Conditions.
25 
"Soum" means the national currency of the Borrower.
26. 
-Sub-financing" means part of the proceeds of the Loan made available to each
Participating Bank pursuant to the terms and conditions of the respective
Subsidiary Agreement.
27. 
"Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made out of the proceeds of the
Loan by a Participating Bank to a Beneficiary for the purpose of financing the
expenditures incurred for goods, works and services for carrying out a Sub-project;
and the term -Sub-loans" means, collectively, all such Sub-loans.
28 
"Sub-loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between a
Participating Bank and a Beneficiary for purposes of providing a Sub-loan
pursuant to Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and paragraph B.3 of
Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank; and "Sub-loan
Agreements" means, collectively, all of said Sub-loan Agreements.
29. 
-Sub-project" means an industrial energy efficiency investment to be carried out
under the Project, and eligible for financing under a Sub-loan in accordance with
the procedures and eligibility criteria referred to in Section I.C of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and paragraph B of Section I of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement as set forth in the Operations Manual; and the term "Sub-projects"
means, collectively, all such Sub-projects.
- 17-
30. 
-Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section L.B of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make part of
the proceeds of the Loan available to each Participating Bank.
31 
Training" means expenditures, as approved by the Bank, on the basis of budgets
and plans prepared by the PCU, and revised annually, satisfactory to the Bank, and
incurred in connection with Project-related training, workshops, seminars,
conferences, and study tours, including travel costs and per-diem allowances for
the trainees and the trainers, rental of conference facilities for training, and other
training-related activities and expenditures as may be agreed with the Bank from
time to time.
32. 
"UZPROMSTROYBANK" means the "Uzbek Industrial and Construction Bank"
Open Joint-Stock Commercial Bank duly established by virtue of the Constitutive
Agreement dated April 23, 1991, and duly operating in the Republic of Uzbekistan
by virtue of the Charter approved by the Minutes No.22 dated April 24, 2009 of
the General Meeting of Shareholders and registered by the Central Bank of the
Republic of Uzbekistan on June 9, 2009 under registration No. 17; License No. 17
for carrying out banking operations issued by the Central Bank of the Republic of
Uzbekistan 
on 
October 
21, 
2017 
(collectively 
referred 
to 
as
"UZPROMSTROYBANK Legislation"), or any successor thereto.
34. 
*Withheld Taxes" means the following taxes withheld at source: taxes for social
charges; income taxes for residents and non-residents; and custom registrations
duties withheld at the source.
