OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8751-IN
Loan Agreement
(Innovate in India for Inclusiveness Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
A?k1L 24 
,2018
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8751-IN
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 
A 
IL 
, 2018, between INDIA ("Borrower") and
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT
("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE 1 -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred twenty-five million
United States dollars (USD125,000,000), as such amount may be converted from
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of
,Section 2.08 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the pruject
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread
provided, however, that the interest payable shall in no event be less than zero
percent (0/6) per annum; and provided further, that upon a Conversion of all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the
Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance
remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty
days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as
provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread, and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has-requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.09. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure
Limit (as said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (bXii) and (b)(iii) of
-3-
this Section), the Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of
one half of one percent (0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess
Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for
each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if any)
shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set
forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during
which the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit,
the product of: (A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the
ratio of all (or, if the Bank so determines, a portion) of the Loan
to the aggregate amount of all (or the equivalent portions) of the
loans made by the Bank to the Borrower and to other borrowers
guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an exposure
surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined from
time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the
Bank's financial exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded.
would subject the Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined
from time to time by the Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total
financial exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by
the Bank.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project To this
end, the Borrower shall cause BIRAC to carry out the Project in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the Project Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: BIRAC's
Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
-4-
affect materially and adversely the ability of BIRAC to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: the event specified
in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of sixty
(60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is any of the following: Secretary, Additional
Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the
Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Secretary
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance, Government of India
North Block
New Delhi 110001, India
Facsimile:
91-11-2309 2247
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at 
,India, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By
e-Authorized Representative
Name: g A": ex--g
Title: 
/r
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Au o 
Representative
Name: 14l1 
k&b)
Title: 
A 
/A 
(O,AjTxy ht4cmdR, /AblA
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to facilitate innovation in biopharmaceutical
products and medical devices that address public health priorities in India.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Strengthening the pilot-to-market innovation ecosystem
1 
Provision of Shared Facility Grants to: (a) upgrade and expand the know-how of
existing validation and reference facilities for developing, inter alia, vaccines.,
biopharmaceuticals and/or diagnostics and medical devices; (b) set-up and/or
upgrade chemistry, manufacturing and controls facilities for supporting early
stage manufacturing of vaccines and/or biopharmaceuticals; and (c) upgrade
existing institutions into national cell-line repositories for allowing ready-access
to quality-controlled cell-lines across different stages of validation processes of
vaccines and/or biopharmaceuticals.
2. 
Provision of Scientific Research Grants to develop new scientific research tools
and techniques such as biomarkers, assays, cell-tines and technologies for
lowering the cost of validation and early stage manufacturing of, inter alia,
vaccines, biopharmaceuticals and/or diagnostics and medical devices.
3. 
Provision of Clinical Trial Network Grants to: (a) establish a clinical trial network
for connecting clinical sites together for providing ready access to a wide
population sample across India, (b) establish and maintain compliance with good
clinical and participatory practices; and (c) develop shared support services across
clinical sites such as data management.
4. 
Provision of Training Grants to: (a) allow existing academic institutions to
develop training programs for filling scientific. business and research and
development knowledge; (b) enable suitable human resources needed under Part
1 and 2 of the Project; (c) generate a next generation of trainers; and (d) train next
generation of scientists for interdisciplinary skills across product development
value chains.
5. 
Provision of Technology Transfer Grants to acquire specialized technical skills
and institutional knowledge, network and know-know for establishing technology
transfer offices.
-7-
Part 2: Accelerating the pilot-to-market process for specific products
Provision of Product Development Grants to accelerate the development of
selected low-cost products which address public health priorities, have market
potential and are already in the critical validation to early bio-manufacturing stages
such as: (a) vaccines; (b) biosimilars; and (c) medical devices (i.e. instruments and
diagnostics).
Part 3: Project Management and Monitoring & Evaluation
Carrying out of Project management and monitoring, supervision and evaluation
activities, including, inter alia, stakeholder and scientific consultations, clinical
data auditing and clinical research oversight and validation.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section L 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds
of the Loan available to BIRAC through its Department of Biotechnology, in
accordance with the Borrower's standard arrangements for development assistance
in India. The Borrower shall protect the interests of the Bank to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan.
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
Section EL 
Project Mouitorine Reportine and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and shall cause
t BIRAC to prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the
Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall
be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the
period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
cause BIRAC to prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days
after the end of each semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project
covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause BIRAC to have the Financial Statements audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each
audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the
-9-
Borrower. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than nine (9) months after the end of such period.
Section WH. 
Procurement
All goods, works, non-consulting services and consulting services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in the Procurement
Regulations and the provisions of the Procurement Plan.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section. and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"Disbursement Guidelines for Investment Project Financing" dated February
2017, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Category 
Amount of the 
Percentage of
Loan Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) 
Financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Shared Facility Grants,
Scientific Research Grants,
Clinical Trial Network Grants,
Training Grants and Technology
Transfer Grants under Part I of the 
124,687,500 
50%
Project; Product Development
Grants under Part 2 of the Project;
and Goods, non-consulting
services, consultant services,
Incremental Operating Costs and
-10-
Training under Part 3 of the
Project
Amount payable
pursuant to Section
312,500 
2.03 of this Agreement
(2) Front-end Fee 
in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(3) Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
Amount due pursuant
nteolare 
rtemim C0 
to Section 2.08(c) of
this Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
125,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed USD 25,000,000 may be made
for payments made prior to this date but on or after April 1, 2017, for Eligible
Expenditures under Category (1), excluding Product Development Grants, Shared
Facility Grants, Scientific Research Grants, Clinical Trial Network Grants, Training
Grants, and Technology Transfer Grants.
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2023.
-11-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share'. If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning November 15, 2023 
4.35%
through May 15, 2034
On November 15, 2034 
4.3%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
-12-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period.
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
,exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
-13-
APPFNDIX
Section L 
Definitin
1. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 1S, 2006, and revised in January 2011 and as
of July 1, 2016.
2. 
"BIRAC" means Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council, an entity
registered as a non-profit company under the India Company Act of 2013, which
is the Project Implementing Entity.
3. 
"BIRAC's Legislation" means BIRAC's by-laws dated March 20. 2012. as
amended from time to time.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
5. 
"Clinical Trial Network Grant" means a grant to be provided to a Grantee to
finance the cost of goods, works and/or services, as the case maybe, for the
carrying out of activities under Part 1.3 of the Project.
6. 
"CRVMF" means the clinical research validation and management framework.
dated April 10, 2017, for the Project adopted by BIRAC and acceptable to the
Bank, setting for the guiding principles, standards and procedures for- (a) obtaining
informed consent of participants in clinical trials; (b) identifying potential losses
of income and/or disability cases; and (c) identifying adequate compensation and
follow-up health care measures; as such framework may be revised, updated or
supplemented from time to time with the prior written agreement between the Bank
and BIRAC.
7. 
"EMF" means the environmental management framework for the Project dated
February 2017, adopted by and disclosed at BIRAC's website on March 9, 2017
and re-disclosed on April 13, 2017; setting forth the guiding principles, standards
and procedures for: (a) screening of all Project activities and the identification of
any adverse or positive environmental impacts caused, or expected to be caused,
on account of their implementation; 
and (b) preparing their prescribed
environmental impact assessments and/or environmental management plans as
required; as such framework may be revised, updated or supplemented from time
to time with the prior written agreement between the Bank and BIRAC.
-14-
8. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section 11 of this Appendix.
9. 
"Grant Agreement" means an agreement entered between BIRAC and a Grantee
pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in Section C of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement.
10. 
"Grantee" means the beneficiary of a Clinical Trial Network Grant, a Product
Development Grant, a Scientific Research Grant, a Shared Facilities Grant, a
Technology Transfer Grant and/or a Training Grant meeting the eligibility criteria
acceptable to the Bank and included in the Project Implementation Manual.
I1. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the reasonable costs of incremental
operating expenditures incurred during the implementation of the Project, which
expenditures would not have been incurred absent the Project, including, inter alia:
office space rental and utilities; office maintenance and repair office consumables,
vehicles rental, operation and maintenance; communication, printing and/or
publication expenses; staff per diems, field allowances, travel expenses; bank
charges; insurance premia; and salaries of civil servants on full-time deputation.
12. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
April 10, 2017, and provided for under Section IV of the Procurement Regulations,
as the same may be updated from time to time in agreement with the Bank.
13. 
"Procurement Regulations" means the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for
Borrowers under Investment Project Financing", dated July 1, 2016.
14. 
"Product Development Grant" means a grant to be provided to a Grantee to finance
the cost of goods, works and/or services, as the case maybe, for the carrying out of
activities under Part 2 of the Project.
15. 
"Project Implementation Manual" means the manual dated April 10, 2017, adopted
by BIRAC in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; setting forth the policies, terms,
conditions and procedures for Project implementation as such manual may be
revised, updated or supplemented from time to time with the prior written
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
16. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means BIRAC.
17. 
"Scientific Research Grant" means a grant to be provided to a Grantee to finance
the cost of goods, works and/or services, as the case maybe, for the carrying out of
activities under Part 1.2 of the Project.
-15-
18. 
"Shared Facility Grant" means a grant to be provided to a Grantee to finance the
cost of goods, works and/or services, as the case maybe, for the carrying out of
activities under Part 1.1 of the Project.
19. 
"Technology Transfer Grant" means a grant to be provided to a Grantee to finance
the cost of goods, works and/or services, as the case maybe, for the carrying out of
activities under Part 1.5 of the Project.
20. 
"Training" means the reasonable costs of training, workshops and conferences
conducted in the territory of the Recipient and/or overseas;, subject to the Bank's
prior agreement, which costs include, inter alia, training institutions' and courses'
fees, logistics expenses, rental of training facilities, purchase and publication of
training materials, and travel and subsistence allowances for trainers and/or
trainees.
21. 
"Training Grant" means a grant to be provided to a Grantee to finance the cost of
goods, works and/or services, as the case maybe, for the carrying out of activities
under Part 1.4 of the Project.
Section IL 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
,In 
the Table of Contents, the references to Sections. Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee: Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. 
The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date."
-16-
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows in order to
include "surcharge":
"68. 
'Loan Payment' means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), the Commitment Charge, any
surcharge, any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early
termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any
premium payable upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
