OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
THE WORLD BANK
IBRD * IDA I WORLD BANKGROUP
JAJ 
,~ 2018
H.E. Arben Ahmetaj
Minister
Ministry of Finance and Economy
"Deshmoret e Kombit" Boulevard, no.3
Republic of Albania
Re: IBRD Loan No. 8850- AL
(Regional and Local Roads Connectivity Project)
Additional Instructions: Disbursement and Financial Information Letter (DFIL)
Excellency:
I refer to the Loan Agreements ("Agreements") between the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development (the "Bank"), and Republic of Albania (the "Borrower") for the above-referenced Project.
The General Conditions, as defined in the Loan Agreement, provide that the Borrower may from time to
time request withdrawals of Loan Amounts from the Loan Account in accordance with the Disbursement
and Financial Information Letter, and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify from time to
time by notice to the Borrower. The General Conditions also provide that the Disbursement and Financial
Information Letter may specify Project specific financial reporting requirements.
I. Disbursement Arrangements, Withdrawal and Reporting of Loan Proceeds
The Disbursement Guidelines for Investment Project Financing, dated February 2017,
("Disbursement Guidelines") are available in the Bank's public website at https://www.worldbank.org and
its secure website "Client Connection" at https://clientconnection.worldbank.or . The Disbursement
Guidelines are an integral part of this DFIL, and the manner in which the provisions in the Disbursement
Guidelines apply to the Loans is specified below.
(i) Disbursement Arrangements
* Instructions (Schedule 1). The table provides the disbursement methods which may be used by the
Borrower, information on registration of authorized signatures, processing of withdrawal
applications (including minimum value of applications and processing of advances), instructions
on supporting documentation, and frequency of reporting on the Designated Account.
* 
Disbursement Deadline Date, DDD (subsection 3.7). The DDD is four (4) months after the Closing
Date. Any changes to this date will be notified by the Bank.
(ii) Electronic Delivery. Refer to section 10.01 (c) of the General Conditions.
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
The Bank may permit the Borrower to electronically deliver applications (with supporting documents)
through the Bank's web-based portal (https://clientconnection.worldbank.org) "Client Connection". This
option may be effected if the officials designated in writing by the Borrower who are authorized to sign and
deliver Applications have registered as users of "Client Connection". The designated officials may deliver
Applications electronically by completing the Form 2380, which is accessible through "Client Connection".
By signing the Authorized Signatory Letter, the Borrower confirms that it is authorizing such persons
to accept Secure Identification Credentials (SIDC) and to deliver the Applications and supporting
documents to the Bank by electronic means. The Borrower may continue to exercise the option of
preparing and delivering Applications in paper form. The Bank reserves the right and may, in its sole
discretion, temporarily or permanently disallow the electronic delivery of Applications by the Borrower.
By designating officials to use SIDC and by choosing to deliver the Applications electronically, the
Borrower confirms through the authorized signatory letter its agreement to: (a) abide by the Terms and
Conditions of Use of Secure Identification Credentials in connection with Use of Electronic Means to
Process Applications and Supporting Documentation, available in the Bank's public website at
https://worldbank.org and "Client Connection"; and (b) to cause such official to abide by those terms and
conditions.
II. Financial Reports and Audits
(i) Financial Reports. The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45)
days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports ("IFR") for the Project
covering the quarter.
(ii) Audits. The Borrower shall have the Project's Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit shall cover the period of one fiscal
year of the Borrower. For each such period, the audited Financial Statements for the Project shall be (a)
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period; and (b) made publicly
available in a timely fashion and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
III. Other Information
For additional information on disbursement arrangements, please refer to the Loan Handbook
available on the Bank's public website and "Client Connection". The Bank recommends that you register
as a user of "Client Connection". From this website you will be able to prepare and deliver Applications,
monitor the near real-time status of the Loan, and retrieve related policy, financial, and procurement
information. For more information about the website and registration arrangements, please contact the Bank
by email at clientconnection@worldbank.org.
If you have any queries in relation to the above, please contact Luis Schwarz, Senior Finance
Officer 
at IschwarzPworldbank.org, 
copy to 
Darjan 
Dragicevic, 
Finance 
Analyst 
at
ddragicevic(uworldbank.org using the a 
ve re erence.
ours s -cerely
Linda 
I 
e*
Country Dir 
or
Europe Western Balkans
Attachments
1. 
Form of Authorized Signatory Letter
Cc with copies: 
Ministry of Finance and Economy
Bulevardi "Ddshmordt e Kombit", no3
Tirane, Albania
sekretariamin@financa.gov.al
Albania Development Fund
Rruga Sami Frasheri No. 10
Tirana, Albania
adf@albaniandf.org
Schedule 1: Disbursement Arrangements
Country 
Albania
Loan Number 
IBRD No. 8850-AL 
Borrower 
Republic of Albania
Name of the Project 
Regional and Local Roads Connectivity Project
Disbursement Methods 
Methods Available 
Supporting Documentation
Section 2 
Subsections 4.3 and 4.4
Direct Payment 
Yes 
Copy of Records
Reimbursement 
Yes 
Interim unaudited Financial Report
Designated Account: 
Yes 
Interim unaudited Financial Report
Special Commitments 
Yes 
None
Type 
Segregated managed by ADF 
Ceiling 
Variable
Financial Institution - Name 
Bank of Albania (Central Bank) 
Currency 
USD
Frequency of Reporting, 
Quarterly 
Amount 
Not Applicable
Subsection 6.3
USD 200,000
Authr*d*Pk 
Otsaen1jand 3.2) The formfbrAuthdred Slgntfls Letter is provided in Attaument 1 of this letter
, idi 
s.l cod swa 
-noftta 
AppRPlama 
(SubsectIon 3.3 and 3.4)
The World Bank
Radnicka cesta 80/IX
10000 Zagreb, Croatia
Attention: Loan Department
Notice that all information will be sent to the some address, and to the regional TL.
None
None
[Attachment 1 - Form of Authorized Signatory Letter]
[Letterhead]
Ministry of Finance
[Street address]
[City] [Country]
[DATE]
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Attention: [Country Director]
Re: Loan No. 8850-AL
(Regional and Local Roads Connectivity Project)
I refer to the Loan Agreement ("Agreement") between the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (the "Bank"), and the Republic of Albania (the "Borrower") for
the above Loan dated 
. For the purposes of Section 2.03 of the General Conditions
as defined in the Agreements, any I [one] of the persons whose authenticated specimen signatures
appear below is authorized on behalf of the Borrower to sign applications for withdrawal under
the Loans.
For the purpose of delivering Applications to the Bank, 2[each] of the persons whose
authenticated specimen signatures appears below is authorized on behalf of the Borrower, acting
3[individually] 4[ointly], to deliver Applications, and evidence in support thereof on the terms and
conditions specified by the Bank.
5[This confirms that the Borrower is authorizing such persons to accept Secure
Identification Credentials (SIDC) and to deliver the Applications and supporting documents to the
I Instruction to the Borrower: Stipulate if more than one person needs to sign Applications, and how many or which
positions, and if any thresholds apply. Please delete this footnote in final letter that is sent to the Bank
2 Instruction to the Borrower: Stipulate if more than one person needs to jointly sign Applications, if so, please
indicate the actual number. Please delete this footnote in final letter that is sent to the Bank
I Instruction to the Borrower: Use this bracket if any one of the authorized persons may sign; if this is not
applicable, please delete. Please delete this footnote in final letter that is sent to the Bank
4 Instruction to the Borrower: Use this bracket only if several individuals must jointly sign each Application; if this
is not applicable, please delete. Please delete this footnote in final letter that is sent to the Bank
Bank by electronic means. In full recognition that the Bank shall rely upon such representations
and warranties, including without limitation, the representations and warranties contained in the
Terms and Conditions of Use of Secure Identification Credentials in connection with Use of
Electronic Means to Process Applications and Supporting Documentation ("Terms and Conditions
of Use of SIDC"), the Borrower represents and warrants to the Bank that it will cause such persons
to abide by those terms and conditions.]
This Authorization replaces and supersedes any Authorization currently in the Bank
records with respect to this Agreement.
[Name], [position] 
Specimen Signature:
[Name], [position] 
Specimen Signature:
[Name], [position] 
Specimen Signature:
Yours truly,
/ signed 
[Position]
s Instruction to the Borrower: Add this paragraph if the Borrower wishes to authorize the listed persons to accept
Secure Identification Credentials and to deliver Applications by electronic means; if this is not applicable, please
delete the paragraph. Please delete this footnote in final letter that is sent to the Bank
