OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8833-IN
Loan Agreement
(Madhya Pradesh Rural Connectivity Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8833-IN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between INDIA ("Borrower") and
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT
("Bank").
WHEREAS 
(A) 
The Borrower has requested the support listed in (i) and
(ii) immediately below to participate in the financing of its project referred to in this
Agreement:
(i) 
a loan from Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank in an amount equivalent
to S 140,000,000; and
(ii) 
a loan from the Bank in an amount of S210,000,000.
(B) 
The Borrower intends to provide, or cause the State to provide, an amount
equivalent to not less than $152,000,000 for the financing of the Project, plus such
amount which would be determined from time to time pursuant to Order No. 2093
dated February 4, 2015 for the maintenance of the assets constructed or upgraded
under Part A of the Project, such maintenance being exclusively financed by the
State.
NOW, THEREFORE, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows.
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of two hundred and ten
million Dollars ($210, 000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to
time through a Currency Conversion ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
-2-
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IH of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may
apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are January I and July 1 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure
Limit (as said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (bXiii) of
this Section), the Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of
one half of one percent (0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess
Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (bXi) of this Section) for
each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if any)
shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set
forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during
which the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit,
the product of. (A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the
ratio of all (or, if the Bank so determines, a portion) of the Loan
to the aggregate amount of all (or the equivalent portions) of the
loans made by the Bank to the Borrower and to other borrowers
guaranteed by the Borrower that.are also subject to an exposure
surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined from
time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the
Bank's financial exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded,
would subject the Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined
from time to time by the Bank.
-3-
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total
financial exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by
the Bank.
ARTICLE M -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project To this
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by MPRRDA under the
oversight of the State, in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions, Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that
MPRRDA's constitutive document or another legal document governing the
operation of MPRRDA has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived after the date of this Agreement, so as to affect materially and adversely
the ability of MPRRDA to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to
the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that
the Co-financing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all conditions
precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
under it (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement) have been fulfilled.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
5.03. 
For purposes of Section 9.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement (other than those providing for
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is any of the following officials: the Secretary,
Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under
-4-
Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs of the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower.
6.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) the Borrower's address is:
Secretary
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance, Government of India
North Block
New Delhi 110001, India; and
(b) the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile:
91-11-2309 2247
91-11-23092883
6.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
INDIA
orized Representative
Name:
Title: 42varr
Date: 
fPRI. 
Z 
t
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
.
* 
By
Author 
epsetative
Name: 
/4.SHAI-AS(
Title: Ac-r'A)Q f' '7'f 
M k/ 
IN A.
Date:_A_ I 
* 
1a-s
-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to improve durability and enhance resilience to
climate changes of the gravel surfaced rural roads in Madhya Pradesh while building the
capacity of the State to manage its rural road network and road safety.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: Road Upradinz. Construction and Maintenance
1 .
Surface Sealing of Gravel Roads. Sealing the surface of selected gravel surfaced
roads developed under CMGSY using conventional bitumen and other alternative
options; piloting post-construction maintenance through women self-help groups
in selected Districts, including by providing them with road maintenance training
and hand tools.
2. 
Provision of Alternative Connectivity. Providing additional links to eligible
villages which are already connected by a single road link but critically require
additional connectivity to respond to the growing demand to link to more social,
economic and administrative centers.
EL.: Institutional Development
1 .
Rural Road Asset Management System. Defining the system requirements and
terms of reference (overall system architecture, data collection and analytical
modules) and then procuring a road asset management system, or such elements
required to upgrade the existing system, as needed, to encompass the establishment
of a complete inventory of the road network with all its elements, the current
condition and performance of the road network, an estimate of the value of the
asset, a forecast of future demand of traffic and service needs, an estimate of the
maintenance needs and cost, a pricritization of the quality and performance
objectives, funding scenarios for the regular and timely maintenance and upgrade
of the road asset, the definition of a strategy for the maintenance of rural roads and
its implementation.
2. 
Strengthening Design and Research and Quality Assurance Capacity of MPRRDA.
Supporting MPRRDA's capacity by: (a) strengthening its design and research unit;
(b) training design staff to enable them to do in-house design to support the field
units and review consultants designs; (c) reviewing and updating the current rural
road design standards and technical specifications; 
(d) reinforcing field
-7-
laboratories in selected Districts and training staff on laboratory and field tests; and
(e) organizing study tours to share good examples of rural road design and research
in India and abroad.
Part C: Road Safety Managemet Capacity Development
1I 
Road Accident Data Management System. Developing a comprehensive and
multi-institutional, multi-sectoral road accident data management system,
including: (a) a geographic information system-based accident data collection
software system for accident recording, storage, analysis and dissemination; (b)
training at headquarter and District levels on database development, management
and analysis; and (c) analyses of the data collected on accidents.
2. 
Pilot Comprehensive Road Safety Program. Piloting multi-sectoral road safety
initiatives for a high-risk network, including the provision of technical assistance,
training and equipment for the design and implementation of road safety
engineering interventions further to an audit canied out with the active
participation of the local community; road safety enforcement; post-crash
emergency management; and road safety education and awareness.
Part D: Desima Im.lementation and Management Sumort
Providing overall support to MPRRDA with respect to Project management,
c6struction supervision and quality control and technical and financing audits,
including by. (i) preparing cost-effective, climate resilient engineering designs and
related surveys and investigations; (ii) carrying out construction supervision of
civil works and quality control; (iii) implementing independent monitoring of
quality of design and works and contract compliance; and (iv) carrying out
independent monitoring and assessments of safeguards compliance and the
achievement of the Project outcomes.
-g-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Imnpementation Arrantements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds
of the Loan available to Madhya Pradesh in accordance with the Borrower's
standard arrangements for developmental assistance to the States of India.
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding paragraph, in the event of a
conflict between the Borrower's standard arrangements for developmental
assistance to the States of India and the provisions of or referred to in this
Agreement, the provisions of or referred to in this Agreement shall govern.
3. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under its standard arrangements for
developmental assistance to the States of India in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive its rights or obligations under said arrangements.
B. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall cause each of the Project Implementing Entities to ensure that
all terms of reference for any technical assistance or studies carried out under the
Project are consistent with, and pay due attention to, the Bank Policies, as well as
the Borrower and Madhya Pradesh's own laws relating to the environment and
social aspects relevant to the Project.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause each of the Project Implementing Entities to ensure that
the Project shall be implemented in accordance with the guidelines, procedures,
timetables and other specifications set forth in the Safeguard Documents.
3. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing and subject to compliance with
applicable consultation and public disclosure requirements of the Bank, the
Borrower shall ensure that none of the Project Implementing Entities abrogates,
amends, repeals, suspends or waives any provisions of any of the Safeguard
Documents, nor permits any entity participating in the implementation of the
Project to do so.
4. 
Without limitation upon its other reporting obligations under this Agreement, the
Borrower shall ensure that MPRRDA regularly collects, compiles and submits to
-9-
the Bank, on a semi-annual basis and promptly in a separate report whenever the
circumstances warrant, reports on the status of compliance with the Safeguard
Documents, giving details of: (a) measures taken in furtherance of the Safeguard
Documents; (b) conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the
smooth implementation of the Safeguard Documents; and (c) remedial measures
taken or required to be taken to address such conditions.
5. 
The Borrower shall ensure that MPRRDA maintains and operates throughout the
period of Project implementation, a grievance redress mechanism for the handling
of any stakeholder complaints arising out of the implementation of the Project
activities.
6. 
If any provision of the Safeguard Documents shall conflict with any provision
under this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
Section II. 
Project Moltoring Reporting and Evaluation
1I 
The Borrower shall ensure that the MPRDDA furnishes to the Bank each Project
Report not later than one month after the end of the calendar semester to which it
relates.
Section III. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and
in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the
Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible
Expenditures; and (b) pay: (i) the Front-end Fee; and (ii) each Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar premium; in the amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the
percentage set forth against each Category of the following table:
-10-
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) 
financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non-
consulting 
services, 
and 
209,475,000 
42%
consultants' services for the
Project, 
including
Incremental 
Operating
Costs and Training, but
expressly 
excluding
maintenance of the assets
constructed 
or upgraded
under Part A of the Project.
(2) Front-end Fee 
525,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 3.01(a) of the
General Conditions
(3) Interest Rate Cap or 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest 
Rate 
Collar 
Section 4.05 (c) of the
premium 
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
210,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $42,000,000 may be made for payments made
prior to this date but on or after April 2, 2017, for Eligible Expenditures.
2. 
The Closing Date is March 15, 2023.
Section IV. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
-11-
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections 11, 111, TV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
I. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) Limited International
Bidding; (b) National Competitive Bidding ("NCB") subject to the additional
provisions agreed from time to time in the Procurement Plan; (c) Shopping; (d)
procurement under Framework Agreements in accordance with procedures which
have been found acceptable to the Bank; (e) Direct Contracting: and (f) Force
Account
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
I. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. 
The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants' services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; 
(d) Selection based on Consultants'
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; and (f) Single-
source procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants.
-12-
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
-13-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Subject to the provisions of Section 3.03 of the General Conditions, the Borrower
shall repay each Disbursed Amount in semiannual installments payable on each
January I and July 1. the first installment to be payable on the eleventh (11th)
Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount and
the last installment to be payable on the fiftieth- (50th) Payment Date following
the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount. Each installment except for
the last one shall be equal to one-fortieth (1/40) of the Disbursed Amount The
last installment shall be equal to the remaining outstanding amount of the
Disbursed Amount.
2. 
If any one or more installments of principal of the Disbursed Amount would,
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph I of this Schedule, be payable after July 1,
2048, the Borrower shall also pay on such date the aggregate amount of all such
installments.
3. 
The Bank shall notify the Loan Parties of the amortization schedule for each
Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed
Amount.
-14-
APPENDIX
Section .
Deinitions
I. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants,"
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011L"
2. 
"Annual Work Plans and Budgets" means the annual work plans and budgets
(including related cash forecasts) for the implementation of the Project, referred to
in Section I.E. I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
3. 
"Bank Policies" means, but only to the extent that they are applicable to the Project
activities, the operational policies and procedures OP/BP 4.01 (Environmental
Assessment), OP/BP 4.04 (Natural Habitats), OP/BP 4.10 (Indigenous Peoples),
OP/BP 
4.11 
(Physical 
Cultural 
Resources), 
OP/BP 
4.12 
(Involuntary
Resettlement), and OP/BP 4.36 (Forests), contained in the Bank's Operational
Manual which can be found on the Bank's website at www.worldbankorg: and a
"Bank Policy" means the Bank's operational policy and procedure as further
specified in the relevant provision.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IU.A of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
5. 
"Co-financier" means Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank.
6. 
"Co-financing" means, for purposes of paragraph 16 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, an amount of $140,000,000 to be provided by the Co-
financier to assist in financing the Project.
7. 
"Co-financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Co-financier providing for the Co-financing.
8. 
"CMGSY" means the Chief Minister's Rural Road Program launched by the State
of Madhya Pradesh in 2010.
9. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
10. 
"Detailed Project Report" means a document prepared, or to be prepared, by
MPRRDA with respect to an activity under the Project, that primarily reflects
design of such Project activity and includes site assessment, technical/engineering
-15-
aspects, cost estimates, drawings apart 
from environmental 
and social
documentation in accordance with the requirements set forth in the Environmental
Management Framework and the Social Management Framework.
11. 
"District" means one of the 51 districts of Madhya Pradesh, each an administrative
subdivision of the State.
12. 
"District Level Coordinating Committee" means a committee established at the
District level pursuant to Order of the Governor of Madhya Pradesh No. F.22-45-
87-VIII dated May 5, 1988 constituting the District Road Safety Committees for.
each District, and notified in the Official Gazette No. 193 dated June 16, 1988.
13. 
"Environmental Management Framework" 
means the Madhya Pradesh's
document in two parts for the Project entitled respectively "Environmental
Management Framework" and "Environmental Codes of Practices" each dated
September 2016, which contains, inter alia, a description of the institutional
arrangement 
for the implementation of the Environmental Management
Framework; the principles, objectives and approach to be followed in avoiding,
minimizing and mitigating the adverse environmental impacts that are likely to
arise as a result of the implementation of the various construction activities
under the Project; the various policies, guidelines and procedures that need to
be integrated during the planning, design and implementation cycle of the
Project; the indicative management measures required to effectively address or
deal with the key issues that have been identified; as well as a Generic
Environmental Management Plan.
14. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project
Financing", dated July 14, 2017, with the modifications set forth in Section II of
this Appendix.
15. 
"Government eMarket (GeM)" means the Borrower's national public procurement
portal.
16. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the incremental operating costs of the
Project 
incurred by 
MPRRDA for purposes of Project management,
implementation, and monitoring and evaluation on account of office supplies and
consumables, utilities, bank charges, communications, mass media and printing
services, vehicle rental, operation, maintenance, and insurance, office space rental,
building and equipment maintenance, domestic and international traveL lodging,
and subsistence allowances, and salaries and salary supplements of contractual and
temporary staff, but excluding salaries, salary supplements and overheads of
members of the State's or MPRRDA's civil service.
-16-
17. 
"Madhya Pradesh" means the Borrower's State of Madhya Pradesh, or any
successor thereto.
18. 
"MPRRDA" means Madhya Pradesh Rural Road Development Authority, the
Madhya Pradesh agency established as a society registered under the Registration
Act 1973 for the paving of rural roads.
19. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
20. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
September 20, 2017 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
21. 
"Project Implementing Entities" means, collectively, Madhya Pradesh and
MPRRDA. and "Project Implementing Entity" means Madhya Pradesh or
MPRRDA, as the context may require.
22. 
"Project Implementation Unit" means a unit established at the District level by
MPRRDA pursuant to Department of Panchayat and Rural Development Order
No. 16174 dated September 19, 2013; Department of Panchayat and Rural
Development Order No. 11973 dated June 7, 2014; or Department of Panchayat
and Rural Development Order No. 11463 dated April 28, 2017.
23. 
"Project Operations Manual" means the manual to be adopted by MPRRDA in
accordance with the provisions of Section I.D.1 of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.
24. 
"Safeguard Documents" means, collectively, the Environment Management
Framework, and the Social Management Framework; prepared for the Project in
accordance with the provisions of these frameworks.
25. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the
date of the Loan Agreement" in the General Coriditions.
26. 
"Social Management Framework" means the Madhya Pradesh document for the
Project in two parts, entitled respectively "Social Management Framework" dated
September 2016, (which contains, inter alia, an institutional arrangement,
procedures and guidance to identify and mitigate adverse impacts on the assets and
livelihoods of the people directly affected, as well as a capacity building program
and a grievance redress mechanism) and "Vulnerability Framework" dated
September 2016 (which contains, inter alia, guidance to ensure that the
-17-
development process generated by the Project fully addresses the needs of the
vulnerable population and enables measures to promote distributional equity
among the project affected populations, with particular attention to women,
scheduled castes and tribes).
27. 
"State" means Madhya Pradesh.
28. 
"Training" means the reasonable cost of trainings, seminars and workshops,
conferences and study tours for the Project, including: (i) the fees of training
institutions and courses, (ii) travel costs, lodging costs, and subsistence/per diem
allowances both for trainers and trainees; (iii) the rental of training facilities; and
(iv) preparation, purchase or reproduction of training materials.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
Section 5.13 (Procurement) is deleted in its entirety and the remaining section in
Article V is renumbered accordingly.
2. 
Paragraphs 84 (Procurement Plan) and 85 (Procurement Rgulations) in the
Appendix are deleted in their entirety and the subsequent paragraphs are
renumbered accordingly.
