OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8829-tN
Loan Agreement
(Maharashtra Project on Climate Resilient Agriculture (PoCRA)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8829-IN
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated as of the Signature Date, between INDIA ("Borrower") and
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT
("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form part of this Agreement
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE I -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of four hundred and twenty
million United States Dollars ($420,000,000) ("Loan"), as such amount may be
converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion ("Loan"), to assist in
financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
.111 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is equal to one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan
amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is equal to one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum
on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as
may apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
2.08 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure
Limit (as said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (bXii) and (bXiii) of
this Section), the Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of
-2-
one half of one percent (0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess
Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (bXi) of this Section) for
each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if any)
shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set
forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during
which the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit,
the product of: (A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the
ratio of all (or, if the Bank so determines, a portion) of the Loan
to the aggregate amount of all (or the equivalent portions) of the
loans made by the Bank to the Borrower and to other borrowers
guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an exposure
surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined from
time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the
Bank's financial exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded,
would subject the Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined
from time to time by the Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total
financial exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by
the Bank.
ARTICLE M -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Borrower's State of
Maharashtra (Project Implementing Entity), in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions, Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the Project
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is any of the following officials acting severally:
The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary,
or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs of the Borrower's
Ministry of Finance.
-3-
5.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower's address is:
Secretary
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
Government of India
North Block
New Delhi 110 001, India; and
(b) 
the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile:
+91-11-23095071
E-mail:
jsmi-dea@nic.in
5.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) 
the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile:
+1-202-477-6391
-4-
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
INDIA
By
Aut 
d Representative
Name: SA"f40t 4A A4 Ocf-
Title: 
ol&xr
Date: A PA- 
/ 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name:__r&_^_XA."_4a________t
Title: &jA 
te 
, 1eo=A
Date: 
A1
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to enhance climate resilience and profitability of
smallholder farming systems in selected districts of Maharashtra.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A. 
Promoting Climate-resilient Agricultural Systems
A. 1. 
Supporting the development of: (i) evidence-based Mini Watershed Plans (based
on a participatory micro planning process and water budgeting); and (ii) Cluster
Development and Investment Plans (CDPs) to identify a set of priority activities
to be carried out under the Project.
A.2. 
Promoting the transfer of on-farm climate resilient technologies and agronomic
practices identified in the Cluster Development and Investment Plans through,
inter alia: (i) the design and implementation of Farmer Field Schools (FFS) to
promote the demonstration of climate-resilient varieties of field crops; (ii) the
provision of matching grants to eligible Individual Farmers to enable them to adopt
said technologies and practices ("Individual Farmer Matching Grants"); and (iii)
the design and implementation of knowledge sharing and learning activities on
climate-resilient agricultural technologies for stakeholders from villages in the
selected districts.
A.3. 
Supporting development of catchment areas to enhance water management and
improve dryland frmning through, inter alia: (i) the planning, technical design, and
development of common and individual assets for longer term impact on climate
resilience; (ii) the carrying out of investments, including treatment of catchment
areas and drainage lines, rejuvenation of existing community-based and individual
water harvesting structures/construction of new ones, and construction of aquifer
recharge structures; and (iii) the provision of matching grants to eligible Individual
Farmers to strengthen climate resilience ("Individual Farmer Matching Grants").
Part B. 
Post-Harvest Mansement and Value Chain Promotion
B. 1. 
Supporting: (i) the development of a Capacity Enhancement Needs Assessment
(CENA) that includes a comprehensive diagnostic as well as a capacity
development program for Farmer Producer Organizations (FPOs) to be
implemented under the Project; and (ii) the implementation of a Capacity
Development and Coaching Program (CDC) specially focused on FPOs to meet
the needs identified in the CENA.
-6-
B.2. 
Strengthening emerging value chains for climate-resilient commodities, through
inter alia: the provision of matching grants to FPOs ("FPO Matching Grants") to
implement selected value chain Subprojects, and/or to establish FPO-run custom-
hiring centers (CHCs) for agricultural machinery.
B.3. 
Improving the performance of the supply chain for climate-resilient seeds, through
inter alia: (i) establishing seed hubs for the production, processing, certification,
and short-term storage of said seeds in strategic locations; (ii) promoting business-
oriented partnerships among various stakeholders, including from the private
sector, to ensure sustainability of Project investments in the seeds supply chain;
and (iii) the provisions of FPO Matching Grants and Individual Farmer Matching
Grants for the engagement in seed production and seed multiplication in a
sustainable and financially viable way.
Part C. 
Institutiopal -Develgpment. Knowledge 
and Policies for a Climate-
Resilient Arriculture
C. I. 
Supporting 
the sustainability and institutional 
capacity development of
stakeholders involved in activities supported by the Project, from the central to
local level, through inter alia: (i) the updating of crop production contingency
plans; (ii) the revision of Strategic Research and Extension Plans (SREPs) to
mainstream the climate resilience agenda; (iii) the implementation of an annual
Knowledge Sharing and Learning Plan (KSLP) for all out-of-state' and
international training activities (including exposure visits and study tours); and (iv)
the design and implementation of a comprehensive integrated ICT platform to
support the Project's knowledge agenda as well as some core Project management
functions.
C.2. 
Supporting 
feasibility 
studies, 
business 
plans, 
and 
establishment 
and
operationalization of the Maharashtra Climate Innovation Center (CIC) to support
local private sector capacity focused on emerging technologies and business
models.
C.3. 
Generating and disseminating cutting-edge knowledge on issues related to climate-
resilient agriculture and providing analytical underpinnings to improve the policy
and strategy framework to enhance resilience in the agri-food systems in the State
of Maharashtra, through inter alia: (i) the development of state-of-the art climate
and agro-hydrological models; (ii) the promotion of stakeholder's dialogue on
policies for climate resilience in agriculture; and (iii) the generation of suitability
maps for managed aquifer recharge.
-7-
Part D. Prolect Manauement
Providing support for Project administration, financial management, procurement,
safeguards management, human resource management, monitoring and impact
evaluation, and financing incremental operating costs needed under the Project.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section L 
Ipplementation Arraunements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
I. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds
of the Loan available to the State of Maharashtra in accordance with the
Borrower's standard arrangements for developmental assistance to the States of
India.
2. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that any provisions of this Agreement,
including the instructions that the Bank shall have specified pursuant to Section
2.01(b) or Section 2.04(b) of the General Conditions, were to be found inconsistent
with the Borrower's standard arrangements for development assistance to the
States of India, the provisions of this Agreement and related instructions shall
govern.
3. 
The Borrower shall at all times protect its own interests and the interests of the
Bank to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
Section H. 
Prolect Moultorine Renortin and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the State of Maharashtra to furnish to the Bank each
Project Report semi - annually, not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of
each calendar semester, covering the calendar semester.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the State of Maharashtra to carry out a comprehensive
mid-term Project review under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; and
furnish to the Bank a mid-term Project progress report, satisfactory to the Bank no
later than forty-two (42) months after the Effectiveness date.
Section Ell. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
1. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and
in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the
Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible
Expenditures; and (b) pay: (i) the Front-end Fee and (ii) Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar premium; in the amount allocated, if applicable, up to the
percentage set forth against each category of the following table:
-9-
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of
Allocated 
Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) 
financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) 
Goods, 
works, 
non-
consulting services, consulting 
210,100,000 
70%
services, 
Operating 
Costs,
Training and Workshops for the
Project 
(except as 
financed
through 
Individual 
Farmers
Matching 
Grants 
and FPO
Matching Grants)
(2) Individual Farmer Matching 
180,400,000 
700/
Grants
(3) FPO Matching Grants 
28,450,000 
70%
(4) Front-end Fee 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
1,050,000 
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(5) Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
Amount due pursuant to
Rate Collar premium 
-0- 
Section 4.05(c) of the
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
420,000,000
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the Signature Date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed USD
84,000,000 may be made for payments made within 12 months prior to
this date, for Eligible Expenditures, under Category (1); or
(b) 
for payments under Category (3) unless the State of Maharashtra has
submitted evidence to the Bank confirming that the FPO Matching Grant
Agreement format has been finalized and approved, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2024.
-10-
SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share").
Level Principal Repayments
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning May 15. 2024
through May 15, 2041 
2.78%
On November 15, 2041 
2.70%
-11-
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, including for purposes of paragraph 5 of the
Appendix to the General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as
of July 1, 2016.
2. 
"Agriculture Technology Management Agency" or "ATMA" means a registered
society responsible 
for agricultural technology dissemination 
and other
agricultural extension services at the district level in the State of Maharashtra.
3. 
"Approved Individual Farmer Matching Grant Application" means the legal
agreement to be entered into between the PMU and an Individual Fanner
benefiting from Individual Farmer Matching Grant pursuant to Section I.E of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement, for purposes of providing financing for the
implementation of selected activities of the CDPs.
4. 
"Beneficiary" means either: (i) Individual Farmers benefitting from the Individual
Farmer Matching Grants; and/or (ii) FPOs benefitting from FPO Matching Grants,
as the case may be.
5. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section m.I of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
6. 
"Capacity Development and Coaching Program" or "CDC" means the program
developed under the Project to strengthen the capacity of the FPOs, referred to in
Section B.1 of Schedule I to the Loan Agreement.
7. 
"Capacity Enhancement Needs Assessment" or "CENA" means the assessment to
be carried out under the Project to provide the diagnostic basis for the CDC,
referred to Section B.1 of Schedule I to the Loan Agreement.
8. 
"Cluster Development and Investment Plans" or "CDPs" means the plans
describing the roadmap for activities and investments required to strengthen
climate resilience in the frming systems prevailing in a particular cluster of
villages, referred to in Section A.1 of Schedule I to the Loan Agreement
9. 
"Custom Hiring Centers" or "CHC" means the centers referred to in Section B.2
of Schedule I to this Agreement, to be established and run by FPOs to make
available gender-sensitive farm machinery and equipment.
-12-
10. 
"Department of Agriculture" or "DOA" means the State of Maharashtra's
Department of Agriculture or any successor thereto.
I1. 
"Displaced Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of the
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts
caused by- (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of
shelter- (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or
means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to another location;
or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected
areas, resulting in adverse impact on the livelihoods of such persons.
12. 
"District Project Committee" or "DPC" means the committee referred to in Section
I.A.2(a) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement created to facilitate coordination
of project activities among agencies represented at district level.
13. 
"District Superintendent Agriculture Officer" or "DSAO" means the civil servant
from the Department of Agriculture, responsible for the planning, implementation
and monitoring of all the agriculture-related interventions in a district, except those
assigned to the district extension services and the district rural local self-
government institution.
14. 
"Divisional Project Management Units (DPMUs)" or "DPMUs" means the units
referred to in Section LA.3(a) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement created to
provide institutional coordination with the districts in their respective jurisdiction.
15. 
:'ESMF means the Project Implementing Entity's environmental and social
management framework (which includes an Integrated Pest and Nutrient
Management Plan) dated September 14, 2017, and disclosed by the Bank's portal
on October 31, 2017, setting forth. (i) the policy framework, principles, standards,
processes and institutional arrangements to be applied to assess potential adverse
environmental impacts associated with Project activities and the ways to avoid,
minimize, mitigate or offset them, including public consultation, disclosure and
reporting; and (ii) the social impact assessments and mitigation procedures and
arrangements and grievance redress procedures for assessing and addressing any
Project social impacts; as such framework may be amended from time to time only
with the prior written concurrence of the Bank-
16. 
"Farmer Field Schools" or "FFS" means the participatory and interactive on-site
learning approach referred to in Section A.2 of Schedule I to this Agreement
created to emphasize problem-solving and discovery-based learning for farmers
with focus on the demonstration of climate-resilient agricultural technologies and
agronomic practices.
17. 
"Farmer Producer Companies" or "FPCs" means registered producer companies
under the Borrower's amended Companies Act (1956) with a minimum share
-13-
capital of Indian rupees 500,000 and run by their members through a board of
directors.
18. 
"Fanner Producer Organizations" or "FPOs" means organizations which may
include Farmer Producer Companies (FPC), or other farmers' and women's
focused groups at the sub district or village level in the State of Maharashtra.
19. 
"FI Loan Agreement" means each of the legal agreements to be entered between
an FI and a FPO for purposes of providing financing to support implementation of
activities under an approved Subproject Proposal, referred to in Section I.E.2 of
the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
20. 
"FI Loan" means the financing to be provided by Fis to an FPO, based on a
Subproject Proposal endorsed by the DPMU, for purposes of providing financing
to support implementation of activities under said Proposal. referred to in Section
I.E.2 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
21. 
"Financial Institutions" and the acronym "FIs" mean the financial institutions
chosen by the Beneficiaries of the FPO Matching Grants, referred to in Section
1.E.2 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
22. 
"Financial Management Manual" or "FM Manual" means the manual dated
January 18, 2018 setting forth the operating procedures for the carrying out of the
financial management requirements under the Project, including inter alia: (i)
accounting principles, practices, methods and procedures; (ii) budgeting and
-planning; (iii) fund flow mechanism, internal control and financing reporting; and
(iv) audit arrangements; as such manual may be amended from time to time with
the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
23. 
"FPO Matching Grant Agreement" means the legal agreement to be entered into
between the DPMU and a Beneficiary of the FPO Matching Grant, pursuant to
Section I.E.3 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, for purposes of providing
financing for the implementation of Subprojects.
24. 
"FPO Matching Grants" means the grants awarded to selected FPOs out of the
proceeds of the Loan pursuant to Section I.E of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement and to the selection criteria and procedures set forth in the PIP and the
FM Manual, to be disbursed only after verification of successful implementation
of the FPO's Subproject activities.
25. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for I3RD Financing, Investment Project
Financing", dated July 14, 2017.
-14-
26. 
"Grant Application" means, in the case of Individual Farmer Matching Grants, an
application submitted by an individual farmer for an Individual Farmer Matching
Grant, in accordance with the procedures and formats prescribed in the PIP and
FM Manual, to apply for a Matching Grant.
27. 
"ICT" means information, communication and technology.
28. 
"Individual Farmer" means the individual farmer who owns farm lands in selected
villages of the State of Maharashtra and who has been selected to receive
Individual Farmer Matching Grants by the VCRMC, "Individual Farmers" means
the plural thereof.
29. 
"Individual Farmer Matching Grants" means the grants awarded to Individual
Farmers out of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to Section LE. of the Schedule
to the Project Agreement and to the selection criteria and procedures set forth in
the PIP and the FM Manual to promote climate-resilient technologies and
agronomic practices.
30. 
Individual Farmer "Subproject" means a set of activities under approved
Subproject Proposal to be carried out by Beneficiaries of FPO Matching Grants.
31. 
"Knowledge Sharing and Learning Plan" or "KSLP" means the plan referred to in
Section C.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to be developed by the PMU based
on a needs assessment for all out-of-state and international training activities to be
funded under the Project and approved by the Project Steering Committee and the
#Bank.
32. 
"Mini Watershed Plans" means the comprehensive diagnostic documents resulting
from the participatory micro planning process to be prepared in selected villages,
referred to in Section A. I of Schedule I to this Agreement, which plans capture,
at the village-cluster level, the mapping of resources, stakeholder's analysis, water
budgeting, specific investments, and knowledge gaps to strengthen climate
resilience in the agriculture systems.
33. 
"Operating Costs" means the reasonable costs of incremental expenditures
incurred by DOA and other Participating Entities on account of Project
implementation, including, inter alia: costs of operation, rent and maintenance of
offices, communication costs, (including public awareness and outreach,
development and maintenance of a comprehensive project web site), vehicle
hiring, printing, incremental staff salaries (including government staff on
deputation to the Project), training, and travel allowances of Project staff related
to Project implementation, coordination, and monitoring but excluding the salaries
of civil servants of the Borrower.
-15-
34. 
"Participating Entities" means the list of government departments and agencies
involved in technical aspects of Project activities implementation, and for which
the Project shall cover Operating Costs, including Water Conservation
Department, Department of Water Supply and Sanitation, Forest Department,
Department of Marketing and Cooperation. Department of Animal Husbandry,
Dairy and Fish, Yashwantrao Chavan Academy of Development Administration
(YASHADA), Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs), as such list may be revised by the
Project Implementing Entity from time to time.
35. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Project implementing Entity's procurement plan
for the Project dated January 18, 2018, and provided for under Section IV of the
Procurement Regulations, as the same shall be updated from time to time in
agreement with the Bank.
36. 
"Procurement Regulations" means, including for purposes of paragraph 85 of the
Appendix to the General Conditions, the "World Bank Procurement Regulations
for Borrowers under Investment Project Financing" dated July 1, 2016, and revised
in November 2017.
37. 
"Procurement Manual" means the manual dated January 18. 2018 prepared in
accordance with the Procurement Regulations by the Project Implementing Entity
in a manner and substance satisfactory to Bank for the purpose of carrying out the
Procurement activities which shall comprise of, inter alia; guidance on
procurement arrangements, processes and procedures agreed with Bank as may
be amended from time to time with prior written concurrence of the Bank.
38. 
"Project Advisory Committee" means the committee to be set up by the Project
Implementing Entity to provide advice pursuant to Section I.A. 1(b) of Schedule 2
to the Project Agreement and the Project Implementation Plan.
39. 
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and the Project
Implementing Entity of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to
the Project Agreement.
40. 
"Project Implementing Entity" or "Maharashtra" means the Borrower's State of
Maharashtra.
41. 
"Project Implementation Plan" or "PIP" means the implementation plan of the
State of Maharashtra for the Project, dated January 18, 2018, including the time-
bound action plans, procedures and criteria agreed with the Bank for Project
implementation (including the criteria for the selection, and disbursement of the
Individual Farmers Matching Grants and FPO Matching Grants) as the same may
amended from time to time with the prior written concurrence of the Bank
-16-
42. 
"Project Management Unit" or "PMU" means the unit established under
Maharashtra's Department of Agriculture for assisting in the carrying out of the
Project activities and coordination with other stakeholders and Participating
Entities in the Project, referred to in Section I.A.1(c) of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement
43. 
"Project Steering Committee" means the committee to be established by the
Project Implementing Entity, for purposes of providing policy guidance and
oversight for the Project implementation, pursuant to Section I.A.1(a) of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.
44. 
"Safeguard Documents" means, collectively, the ESMF (environmental and social
management frameworks), the TPPF, as well as any other plans and documents
prepared or to be prepared, pursuant to Section I.C. of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.
45. 
"Strategic Research and Extension Plans" or "SREPs" means the district plans
referred to in Section C.1 of Schedule I to this Agreement, to be developed under
the leadership of ATMA containing recommendations for expanded adaptive
research to introduce innovations in technology dissemination to cater to local
needs and situations.
46. 
"Sub-division Agriculture Office" or "SDAO" means the office of the DOA in
sub-divisions of the State of Maharashtra responsible for the implementation of
annual work plan, and regular monitoring of activities implemented at the sub-
Aivision level.
47. 
"Signature Date" means the means the latest of the two dates on which the
Borrower and the Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applied to all
references to "the date of the Loan Agreement" in the General Conditions.
48. 
"Subproject Proposal" means, in the case of FPO Matching Grants, a proposal
submitted by an FPO in accordance with the procedures and formats prescribed in
the PIP and FM Manual to apply for an FPO Matching Grant.
49. 
"Training and Workshops" means the reasonable cost of trainings, seminars,
workshops, conferences and study tours, conducted in the territory of the Borrower
or overseas and subject to the Bank's prior agreement; all in direct relation to the
Project, which costs may include, inter alia: (a) the fees of training institutions and
courses; (b) domestic and international travel costs, lodging costs, and
subsistence/per diem allowances both for trainers and trainees; (c) the rental of
training facilities; and (d) preparation, purchase or reproduction of training
materials.
-17-
50. 
"Tribal People Planning Framework" or "TPPF" means the framework dated
October 1, 2017, which sets forth, inter alia: the protocols for. (a) screening the
Project activities and identifying and assessing any potential Project-related social
impact on Tribal Groups; and (b) preparing any mitigation actions therefore; as
well as (c) the monitoring and reporting requirements in relation thereto; which
TPPF may be amended from time to time only with the prior written concurrence
of the Bank.
51. 
"Tribal Groups" means any distinct, vulnerable, social and cultural group within
the territory of the Project Implementing Entity, that: (i) self-identifies as such and
claims, and is recognized by others as, having a distinguishable cultural identity:
(ii) has collective attachment to geographically distinct habits or ancestral
territories in the Project area, and to the natural resources in these habitat and
territories; (iii) has customary cultural, economic, social and political institutions
that are separate from those of the dominant society and culture; and (iv) has an
indigenous language, often different from the official language of the Borrower
and/or the Project Implementing Entity.
52. 
"VCRMC" means Village Climate Resilient Agriculture Management Committee,
a Committee created by the State of Maharashtra through Government Resolution
dated November 7, 2017, headed by the Chairperson of the Village Panchayat
(rural local self-government institution at the village level), to carry out planning
and execution of community works, referred to in Section I.A.4(a) of the Schedule
to the Project Agreement.
