OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8814-PK
Loan Agreement
(National Transmission Modernization - I Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
13- e6
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between the ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
OF 
PAKSITAN 
(the 
"Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount up to four hundred and
twenty-five million Dollars (USD 425,000,000), as such amount may be converted
from time to time through a Currency Conversion ("Loan"), to assist in financing
the project described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may
apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are June 15' and December 15' in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
-2-
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that the
Project Implementing Entity's Legal Framework has been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the Project
Implementing Entity's ability to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that event
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period
of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the
Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following, namely that:
(a) 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity and all conditions
precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Project Implementing
Entity to make withdrawals thereunder (other than the effectiveness of this
Agreement) have been fulfilled; and
(b) 
the Project Implementing Entity has obtained the internal approvals for the
Procurement and Contract Management Protocol.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section Officer of the Economic Affairs Division
of the Ministry of Finance, Revenue and Economic Affairs of the Borrower; each
such person acting individually.
-3 
6.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower's address is:
Economic Affairs Division
Ministry of Finance, Revenue and Economic Affairs
Islamabad
Pakistan; and
(b) 
the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile:
+92-51-910-4016
6.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) 
the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile:
1-202-477-6391
-4-
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By
Aut6orized Representative
Name:
Title: 
GHAZAN FAR ABBAS JILANI
Economic Affairs Division
Date: 
Government of Pakistan
Islamabad
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authori 
epresentative
Name: 
tq; 
t 
wa, 
Title: __ 
_ _ __ 
_ 
_ 
__ 
_ 
_
Date: _) 
___6_-
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to increase the capacity and reliability of selected
segments of the National Transmission System in Pakistan, and modernize key business
processes of NTDC.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: Expansion and Upgradation of the Transmission Network
Constructing new power substations and/or associated transmission lines at 765
kV, 500 kV and/or 220 kV, as well as expanding and augmenting or upgrading existing
substations at 500 kV and/or 220 kV and/or associated transmission lines.
Part B: Deployment of the Enterprise Resource Planning System
Implementing the first stage of NTDC's adoption of an enterprise resource
planning system comprising, but not limited to: (a) building and/or improving essential
ICT civil infrastructure; (b) carrying out office automation and adoption of ICT systems;
(c) establishing a centralized help desk (call center) as a first tier solution mechanism; (d)
implementing/integrating information systems for human resources and payroll, financial
management, and supply chain management; (e) providing technical assistance and
training to NTDC staff to develop their ICT capabilities, including developing end-users
key computer interface skills and institutionalizing key security controls; (f) implementing
a change management and communication strategy/plan to ensure NTDC's units
preparedness for adoption of new technologies and automated systems; (g) carrying out a
business process improvement and mapping initiatives; and (h) engaging a Project
management and quality assurance consultant ("PMQA Consultant") to assist NTDC with
procurement, project and risk management, quality assurance, and record keeping
standardization.
Part C: Project Management, Technical Assistance & Capacity Building
Strengthening NTDC institutional capacity for carrying out the Project, including:
(a) compliance with the financial management, procurement, social and environmental,
and reporting requirements under the Project; (b) the preparation of feasibility studies for
new projects; and (c) the implementation of priority capacity building initiatives such as:
(a) 
updating the National Grid Code (2005) to accommodate new
institutional, commercial and technological developments in Pakistan's
power systems;
-6-
(b) 
carrying out feasibility studies to enhance transmission system capacity
issuing flexible alternating current transmission systems;
(c) 
developing the institutional capacity in project management and operation
of HVDC transmission systems;
(d) 
developing new internal audit methodology, manual and plans; and
(e) 
developing the institutional capacity of the NPCC on operational planning
and economic dispatch for new thermal and renewable energy generation.
-7-
SCHEDULE2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arran2ements
A. 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds
of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity under a subsidiary loan
agreement between the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity, under terms
and conditions approved by the Bank (the "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"), which
shall include the following:
(a) 
the subsidiary loan amount, equivalent to the amount of the Loan,
denominated in Pakistan Rupees (the "Subsidiary Loan");
(b) 
the right of the Project Implementing Entity to withdraw the proceeds of
the Loan on behalf of the Borrower. The proceeds so withdrawn shall be
considered to have been withdrawn by the Borrower;
(c) 
the Project Implementing Entity's obligation to: (i) pay to the Borrower an
amount in Pakistan Rupees equal to the Front-end Fee and Commitment
Charge, each determined by the Bank pursuant to Sections 2.03 and 2.05
of this Agreement and Section 3.01 of the General Conditions; (ii) repay
proceeds of the Loan on-lent pursuant to the Subsidiary Loan, and
withdrawn from the Bank the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, in Pakistan
Rupees and over the period applicable to the Borrower pursuant to Section
2.07 of, and Schedule 3 to, this Agreement; and (iii) pay an interest on the
principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate agreed between the Borrower and the Project
Implementing Entity, and acceptable to the Bank, as per the re-lending
policies of the Borrower, which rates (other than those charges in case of
default) shall in no case exceed twelve percent (12%) per annum, unless
otherwise agreed between the Borrower and the Bank;
(d) 
the Borrower's and the Project Implementing Entity's understandings and
arrangements for the flow of funds, including disbursement protocols,
supporting evidence and any reporting requirements therefor;
(e) 
the Borrower's right to suspend or terminate the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and/or accelerate the re-payment/recovery of any outstanding
amounts withdrawn thereunder, upon (i) NTDC's failure to perform its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and/or the Project
-8-
Agreement, as the case may be; or (ii) the Bank's exercising any of the
remedies under Article VII of the General Conditions.
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any of its provisions, nor consent to any assignment, amendment
abrogation or waiver by the Project Implementing Entity.
B. 
Notification of Transmission Charges
The Borrower undertakes to promptly publish any NEPRA revision/update of
NTDC's transmission charges within thirty (30) days of their final determination
by NEPRA.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to furnish to the Bank
each Project Report not later than forty five (45) days after the end of each calendar
semester, covering the calendar semester.
Section III. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and
in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the
Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible
Expenditures; and (b) pay the Front-end Fee, the Commitment Charge and the
Interest During Construction; in the amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the
percentage set forth against each Category of the following table:
-9-
Percentage of
Amount of the 
Expenditures to
Category 
Loan Allocated 
be financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of
Taxes)
100% for goods,
works, non-
consulting services,
consulting services,
-. 
Incremental
(1) Goods, works, non-consulting 
Op ents
services, consulting services, 
aneraiing and
Incremental Operating Costs, 
Worhops ae
Training and Workshops, 
423,937,500 
askallsamount
Commitment Charge and Interest 
aal punt
During Construction for Parts A, B 
Seios 
and C of the Project 
an 3.0 o the
and 3 .02 of the
General Conditions
during the
Construction
Period
Amount payable
pursuant to Section
2.03 of this
(2) Front-end Fee 
1,062,500 
Agreement in
accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of
the General
Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
425,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed eighty five million United States dollars (USD
85,000,000) may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after
January 1, 2018, for Eligible Expenditures under Category (1).
2. 
The Closing Date is January 31, 2024.
-10-
SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule - Level Principal
Repayments
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share").
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
June 15, 2024 
1.50%
December 15, 2024 
1.50%
June 15, 2025 
1.50%
December 15, 2025 
1.50%
June 15, 2026 
1.75%
December 15, 2026 
1.75%
June 15, 2027 
2.00%
December 15, 2027 
2.00%
June 15, 2028 
2.50%
December 15, 2028 
2.50%
June 15, 2029 
4.50%
December 15, 2029 
4.50%
June 15, 2030 
5.00%
December 15, 2030 
5.00%
June 15, 2031 
5.00%
December 15, 2031 
5.00%
June 15, 2032 
5.00%
December 15, 2032 
3.50%
June 15, 2033 
3.50%
December 15, 2033 
3.50%
June 15, 2034 
3.50%
December 15, 2034 
3.50%
June 15, 2035 
3.50%
December 15, 2035 
3.50%
June 15, 2036 
3.50%
December 15, 2036 
3.50%
June 15, 2037 
1.50%
December 15, 2037 
1.50%
June 15, 2038 
1.50%
December 15, 2038 
1.50%
June 15, 2039 
1.50%
December 15, 2039 
1.50%
June 15, 2040 
1.50%
December 15, 2040 
1.50%
-11 
June 15, 2041 
1.00%
December 15, 2041 
1.00%
June 15, 2042 
1.00%
December 15, 2042 
1.00%
- 12-
APPENDIX
Definitions
"Annual Work Plan and Budget" means the work plan for Project activities and
their respective budgets (cash plan) to be prepared on annual basis by the Project
Implementing Entity pursuant to Section I.B of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
"Bank Safeguard Policies" means, collectively, but only to the extent that are
applicable to the Project activities, the operational policies and procedures OP/BP
4.01 (Environmental Assessment), OP/BP 4.04 (Natural Habitats); OP/BP 4.07
(Water Resources Management); OP/BP 4.09 (Pest Management), OP/B) 4.10
(Indigenous Peoples), OP/BP 4.11 (Physical Cultural Resources), OP/BP 4.12
(Involuntary Resettlement), (OP/BP 4.36 (Forests), OP/BP 4.37 (Safety of Dams),
OP/BP 7.50 ( contained in the Bank's Operational Manual which can be found on
the Bank's website at www.worldbank.org.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
5. 
"Construction Period" means the period commencing on the Effective Date and
ending on the Closing Date, in relation to works under the Project.
6. 
"Displaced Persons" means any persons who, on account of the execution of the
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts
caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of
shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; or
(b) the involuntary restriction or access to legally designated parks and protected
areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such persons.
7. 
"ERP" means enterprise resource planning.
8. 
"ERP-PMU" means the enterprise resources planning project management unit to
be established by the Project Implementing Entity pursuant to Section I.A.2(b) of
the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
9. 
"ESIA" means each of the Project Implementing Entity's environmental and social
impact assessments (to be) prepared and adopted by NTDC pursuant to Section
- 13 
I.E.2 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement and in accordance with the
provisions of the ESMF, in order to assess the likely positive and negative
environmental impact of Project activities; as such assessments may be revised,
updated or supplemented from time to time with the prior written concurrence of
the Bank.
10. 
"ESMF" means the Project Implementing Entity's environmental and social
management framework, dated September 2017, disclosed by the Bank on October
18/19, 2017, setting forth the guiding policies/principles, acceptable standards and
procedures for: (a) the screening of Project investment activities and the
identification of any adverse or positive social and environmental impacts caused,
or expected to be caused, on account of their implementation; and (b) the
preparation of their prescribed ESIA(s) and ESMP(s); as such framework may be
revised, updated or supplemented from time to time with the prior written
concurrence of the Bank.
11. 
"ESMP" means each environmental and social management plan (to be) prepared
and adopted by NTDC pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section I.E of Schedule to
Project Agreement, in accordance with the outcomes of the respective ESIA and
the provisions of the ESMF, setting out mitigation, enhancement, monitoring and
institutional measures, including capacity building through training, required to:
(i) eliminate adverse environmental and social impacts of activities to be
implemented under Project; (ii) offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels;
and/or (iii) enhance any positive impacts thereof; as such plan may be revised,
updated or supplemented from time to time with the prior written concurrence of
the Bank.
12. 
"Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's and Project Implementing Entity's fiscal year,
commencing on July 1st of each calendar year, and concluding on June 30' of the
next following calendar year.
13. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project
Financing", dated July 14, 2017.
14. 
"GM Project Delivery Offices" means, collectively, the regional offices (north and
south) 
of 
NTDC 
established 
pursuant 
to 
Notification
MD/NTDC/HR&AD/ADG/DM(CM)/5532-65 
of July 20, 2017, and referred to in
section I.A. 1(b) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
15. 
"Group I Investments" means the investment subprojects under Part A of the
Project that: (i) meet the eligibility criteria set forth for Group II Investments in
sub-paragraphs (a) through (g) of Section IC.1 of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement; and (ii) have been agreed by the Bank for inclusion under the Project
prior to the signing of this Agreement.
- 14 
16. 
"Group II Investments" means the investment subprojects under Part A of the
Project that: (i) shall be screened pursuant to Section I.C.1 of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement to ensure that they meet the eligibility criteria set forth therein
to be included under the Project; and (ii) are agreed by the Bank for inclusion under
the Project after the signing of this Agreement.
17. 
"HVDC" means high-voltage direct current.
18. 
"ICT" means information and communications technology.
19. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the incremental expenses incurred by the
Project Implementing Entity on account of the management, implementation,
monitoring and/or evaluation of the Project, including, but no limited to:
incremental staff salaries, per diem and allowances, office rent, office supplies,
utilities, conveyance, travel and boarding/lodging allowances, operating and
maintenance expenditures of office equipment and vehicles, bank charges,
insurance, advertising, media projections, newspaper subscriptions, periodicals,
and printing and stationary costs incurred for the purposes of Project activities; but
excluding salaries, fees, honoraria, bonuses, and any other salary supplements of
members of the Borrower's civil service or the Project Implementing Entity's
regular staff.
20. 
"Interest During Construction" means the interest accrued during the Construction
Period and payable on the Loan in accordance with the terms set forth or referred
to in this Agreement.
21. 
"LARF" means the Project Implementing Entity's Land Acquisition Resettlement
Framework dated March 2014 and disclosed by the Bank on October 18,
2017,which framework: (i) sets out the policies and procedures for the acquisition
of land and other assets, compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation of
Displaced Persons, and for the preparation of the respective RAP required for
Project activities, as said framework may be revised, updated or supplemented
from time to time with the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
22. 
"Linked Activities" means any substations, transmission lines and/or power
generation plants established connected/related to selected segments of the
National Transmission System to be improved under the Group I Investments and
Group II Investments, and/or any other ancillary infrastructure and activities that
are: (i) significantly or directly related to the Project; (ii) necessary to achieve the
Project's development objectives; and (d) carried out or planned to be carried out
contemporaneously with the Project.
23. 
"National Grid Code (2005)" means the NTDC's Grid Code dated June 2005,
prepared and adopted pursuant to Article 16 of the NTDC license and approved by
NEPRA pursuant to Article 35 of the NEPRA Act.
- 15-
24. 
"National Transmission System" means the Borrower's power transmission
system managed and operated by NTDC.
25. 
"NEPRA" means the Borrower's National Electric Power Regulatory Authority,
an independent regulatory agency established and existing under the NEPRA Act
for purposes of regulating the Borrower's electric power sector.
26. 
"NEPRA Act" means the Borrower's Act XL of 1997, for the Regulation of
Generation, Transmission and Distribution of Electric Power Act, as amended to
the date of this Agreement.
27. 
"NPCC" means the Borrower's National Power Control Center established
pursuant to Memorandum No. 2/148/S.O.2(E)/56 of August 24,1957, as amended
and supplemented to the date of this Agreement, and operating under the aegis of
the Borrower's Ministry of Energy (Power Division).
28. 
"NTDC" means the National Transmission and Despatch Company Ltd., an
electricity transmission, system operation and dispatch utility established and
operating under Section 32 of the Companies Ordinance (1984) of the Islamic
Republic of Pakistan and NEPRA's license No. TL/01/2002, and registered with
the Joint Registrar of Companies under certificate of incorporation No. L-09689,
dated November 6, 1998.
29. 
"Pakistan" means the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
30. 
"Pakistan Rupees" means the lawful currency of the Borrower.
31. 
"Part" means, individually, each cluster of activities under the Project
individualized as "Part A", "Part B" or "Part C" in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
32. 
"PDP Consultant" means the Project design and procurement consultant to be
selected and engaged by the Project Implementing Entity pursuant to Section
I.A. 1 (c)(i) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
33. 
"PMQA Consultant" means the Project management and quality assurance
consultant to be selected and engaged by the Project Implementing Entity pursuant
to Section I.A.(c) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
34. 
"PMU" means the project management unit established pursuant to Office Order
MD/NTDC/DG(HR)/ADG/DMCM 
G-8/5823-47 
of August 2, 2017, as
supplemented by Office Order MD/NTDC/DG(HR&A)/ADG/DMCM G-8/6823-
52 and referred to Section I.A.1(a) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
35. 
"Procurement and Contract Management Protocol" and the terms "Protocol"
means the protocol for procurement and contract management, dated [August 3,
- 16 
2016 (as revised on November 17, 2017), regarding projects implemented, or to be
implemented, by NTDC and financed, or to be financed, by the Bank, as the same
may be as revised, updated or supplemented from time to time with the prior
written concurrence of the Bank.
36. 
"Procurement Regulations" means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for
Borrowers under Investment Project Financing", dated July 1, 2016, revised
November 2017.
37. 
"Procurement Review Committee" means the committee to be established by the
Project Implementing Entity pursuant to Section I.A.3(a) of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement.
38. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means NTDC.
39. 
"Project Implementing Entity's Legal Framework" means NTDC's Memorandum
and Articles of Association, dated November 6, 1998, as amended to the date of
this Agreement.
40. 
"PS Consultant" means the Project supervision consultant to be selected and
engaged by the Project Implementing Entity pursuant to Section I.A. 1 (c)(ii) of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.
41. 
"RAP" means each resettlement action plan (to be) prepared and adopted by
NTDC pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section I.E of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement, in accordance with the outcomes of the respective ESIA and the
provisions of the LARF; which plan: (i) identifies the Displaced Persons on
account of NTDC's implementation of the Project, (ii) sets forth the Displaced
Persons' entitlement schedules, and the terms and conditions for providing them
with resettlement assistance and/or compensation; and (iii) outlines the procedures
to be applied in the identification, assessment and mitigation of potential Project
related social impacts, including the protocols for consultation, processing of
complaints and redressal of grievances, monitoring and reporting task; as such
plans may be revised, updated or supplemented, from time to time, with the prior
written concurrence of the Bank.
42. 
"Safeguard Documents" means, collectively, the ESMF, ESIA(s), LARF, EMP(s)
and RAP(s) prepared and/or to be prepared by NTDC on account of the Project.
43. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the
date of the Loan Agreement" in the General Conditions.
-17-
44. 
"Steering Committee" means the committee to be established by the Project
Implementing Entity pursuant to Section I.A.2(a) of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.
45. 
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the on-lending agreement to be entered by
the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity pursuant to Section I.A.1 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
46. 
"Subsidiary Loan" means the amount of the Loan on-lent by the Borrower to the
Project Implementing Entity pursuant to Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
47. 
"Training and Workshops" means the reasonable costs of training, workshops and
conferences required for the Project and conducted in the territory of the Borrower
and, subject to the Bank's prior approval, overseas, including training institutional
and course fees, logistics expenses, rental of training facilities, purchase and
publication of training materials, and travel and subsistence allowance for trainers
and/or trainees.
