OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8892-RO
Loan Agreement
(Strengthening Disaster Risk Management Project)
between
ROMANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between ROMANIA ("Borrower") and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of fifty million euro (C50,000,000),
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion
("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement
("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Fixed Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May I and November I in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project, in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and fifty days (150) days after the
Signature Date.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Public Finance or his/her successor
thereof.
5.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions the Borrower's address is:
Ministry of Public Finance
16 Libertatii Boulevard, district 5
Bucharest, 05 07 06
Romania
Facsimile:
40213126792
5.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Facsimile:
1-202-477-6391
-2-
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
ROMANIA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: C-u 
/ OdAO 
SO 
oV/
Title: 
, 
, 
a 
;
Date: 
c' 0
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Akh 
zed Representative
Name /+-4wA- PRO St 
/co--, 
-- 
\V4
Title:
Date: 
LS( zols
-3-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to enhance the resilience of critical disaster and emergency
response infrastructure and to strengthen the Borrower's institutional capacities in disaster risk
reduction and climate change adaptation.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Improving seismic resilience of disaster and emergency response infrastructure
1 .
Provision of support to improve the seismic safety and disaster resilience of prioritized
critical disaster and emergency response facilities, through investments in structural
strengthening and rehabilitation of existing building infrastructure, and/or construction of
new buildings to ensure that these critical buildings are fully operational before, during and
after disasters such as earthquakes, floods, storms, extreme weather events, by considering
the resilience of the buildings and critical systems, such as back up energy, water and
communications systems.
Upgrades will also include: (a) improvements in energy efficiency and building
functionality; (b) support universal access; and (c) facilitate equal access and use of these
buildings both for men and women.
This component will cover all goods, works and consulting services associated with,
among others, the technical surveys, energy efficiency audits, feasibility studies (including
relevant documentation), design, authorizations and permits, designer consultant services
during execution of works and site supervision needed to carry out this component.
2. 
Provision of support, through the provision of goods and consulting services, non-
consulting services to develop and carry out of communication, awareness raising and
dissemination 
activities associated 
with the renovation of buildings, 
including
informational meetings to staff and volunteers using the building and surrounding
communities.
Part 2: Enhancing institutional capacity for risk reduction investment planning
1 .
Provision of support, through the provision of goods, consulting services and non-
consulting services to DES and GIES to enable risk-informed capital investment planning
and support accelerated risk reduction interventions in emergency and disaster response
buildings.
The activities will include:
(a) 
Improving and updating the Ro-Risk platform through preparation and use of
higher resolution data, improved vulnerability modeling and developing more
robust data on the financial and economic impacts of disasters;
-4-
(b) 
Develop a package of evidence-based priority investments to enhance the
resilience of emergency and disaster response facilities under GIES; and
(c) 
Conducting national workshops, trainings, and public awareness campaigns for
disaster risk management in Romania.
Part 3: Project Management
1 .
Support to the PIU for the overall day-to-day implementation of the Project including
procurement, financial management, monitoring, and evaluation, safeguards and technical
oversight, through the provision of goods, consultants' services, Training and Operating
Costs, including audit.
2. 
Support to the PCU for the overall monitoring, reporting and coordination of the Project
through the provision of goods, consultants' services, Training and Operating Costs.
-5-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements.
1. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions, and except as
the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, through GIES, maintain at all times
during the implementation of the Project, a PIU within GIES, with composition, resources,
terms of reference and functions acceptable to the Bank. The PIU shall be responsible for
the procurement, financial management, day to day monitoring and evaluation and
safeguards compliance under the Project.
2. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions, and except as
the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, through MOIA, maintain at all
times during the implementation of the Project, a PCU within DES with composition,
resources, terms of reference and functions acceptable to the Bank. The PCU shall be
responsible for overall monitoring, reporting to the Bank, and strategic coordination with
the Bank and Ministry of Public Finance under the Project.
B. 
Project Operations Manual.
1. 
The Borrower, through MOIA and GIES, shall implement the Project in accordance with
a Project Operations Manual ("POM"), in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, that
sets out the operational and administrative procedures and requirements for Project
implementation.
2. 
The POM may not be assigned, amended, abrogated or waived, or permitted to be assigned,
amended, abrogated or waived, or any provision thereof, in a manner which, in the opinion
of the Bank, may materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project. The
POM may only be amended in consultation with, and after approval of, the Bank. In case
of any conflict between the terms of the POM and those of this Agreement, the terms of
this Agreement shall prevail.
C. 
Safeguards.
1. 
The Borrower through GIES shall, ensure that the Project is carried out with due regard to
appropriate health, safety, social, and environmental standards and practices, and in
accordance with the Safeguards Instruments.
2. 
The Borrower, through GIES shall ensure that the obligation to comply with the relevant
Safeguards Instruments is incorporated: (a) in the contracts, through GIES, and the relevant
contractor(s) and any entity (including any engineer) supervising the Project's civil works;
and (b) in the contracts between the relevant contractor(s) and the contractors'
subcontractors.
-6-
3. 
The Borrower, through GIES, shall ensure that prior to the carrying out of works under the
Project:
(a) 
carry out site-specific EIA and ESMP, under terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank, for the relevant works;
(b) 
prepare, consult and disclose respective site-specific ESMPs in a manner
acceptable to the Bank and as set forth in the ESMF; and
(c) 
before issuing bidding documents for any works contract, prepare and submit to
the Bank for its approval the relevant ESMPs in form and substance satisfactory to
the Bank.
4. 
The Borrower, through GIES, shall ensure that: (a) all consultancies related to technical
assistance, design and capacity building under the Project, the application of whose results
could have environmental, social and health and safety implications, shall only be
undertaken pursuant to terms of reference reviewed and found satisfactory by the Bank;
and (b) such terms of reference shall require the technical assistance, design and capacity
building activities to take into account the requirements of the applicable Bank Safeguards
Policies and EHS Guidelines.
5. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through GIES, shall ensure, and
cause to ensure, that none of the provisions of the Safeguard Instruments is abrogated,
amended, repealed, suspended or waived. In case of any inconsistencies between the
provisions of any of the Safeguard Instruments and the provisions of this Agreement, the
provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
6. 
The Borrower, through GIES, shall maintain, throughout Project implementation, and
publicize the availability of a grievance redress mechanism, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, to hear and determine fairly and in good faith all complaints raised
in relation to the Project, and take all measures necessary to implement the determinations
made by such mechanism in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
1 .
The Borrower, through MOIA, shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than
one month after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar semester.
2. 
Without limitation upon its other reporting obligations under this Agreement, the
Borrower, through MOIA and GIES, shall:
(a) 
take all measures necessary on its part to regularly collect, compile, and submit to
the Bank, as part of the Project Reports, and promptly in a separate report whenever
the Bank may require, information on the status of compliance with the Safeguards
Instruments. Such information shall include: (i) measures taken in furtherance of
the Safeguards Instruments; (ii) conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to
interfere with the smooth implementation of the Safeguards Instruments; and (iii)
remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such conditions;
-7-
(b) 
promptly furnish to the Bank a copy of each progress report prepared and
submitted by any entity (including any engineer) supervising the Project's civil
works, the Project's contractors and/or subcontractors; and
(c) 
promptly upon receipt, shall furnish to the Bank any notification received from any
entity (including any engineer) supervising the Project's civil works, the Project's
contractors and/or subcontractors regarding any incident that have might occurred
during Project implementation.
Section III. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in
accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to finance Eligible Expenditures; in the amount
allocated and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category of the
following table:
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in Euro) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non- 
50,000,000 
100%
consulting services,
consulting services (including
audits), Training and
Operating Costs
TOTAL AMOUNT 
50,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made for payments
made prior to the Signature Date.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2024.
-8-
SCHEDULE 3
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date ("Installment Share").
Level Principal Repayments
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
On each May I and November 1
Beginning November 1, 2024
through May 1, 2026 
25%
-9-
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption
in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006
and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
3. 
"DES" means Department for Emergency Situations established under the Borrower's
Ministry of Internal Affairs pursuant to the Borrower's Emergency Ordinance 1/2014
regarding measures in emergency situation management and amending the Emergency
Ordinance No. 21/2004 regarding the National System for emergency situations
management, or its successor thereof.
4. 
"EHS Guidelines" means the World Bank Group Environmental, Health and Safety
Guidelines published on www.ifc.org/ehsguidelines, as said guidelines are updated from
time to time.
5. 
"Environmental Impact Assessment" or "EIA" means the document to be prepared and
adopted by the Borrower, through GIES, disclosed in-country prior to the initiation of
works setting out details of potential environmental risks, and adverse impacts associated
with any Project activities, together with an environmental management plan defining
measures to manage such risks and impacts, and including any schedules to such
assessment, and as such assessment may be amended by the Borrower from time to time,
with the prior written approval of Bank.
6. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF' means the plan prepared
and adopted by the Borrower, through GIES dated May 22, 2018, disclosed in-country, and
the Bank's website on May 29, 2018, setting out the modalities to be followed in assessing
the potential adverse environmental and social impacts of Project activities including
impacts and the measures to be taken to offset, reduce or mitigate such adverse impacts, as
well as for the preparation of environmental and social management plans, as such
framework may be amended by the Borrower, from time to time, with the prior written
agreement of the Bank.
7. 
"Environmental and Social Management Plans" or "ESMPs" means the site-specific plans
prepared by the Borrower during the implementation of the Project, all in a manner
acceptable to the Bank adopted by the Borrower, and disclosed in-country, setting out
details of the specific actions and environmental and social protection measures in respect
of the Project, including for chance finding of cultural property and potential direct and
indirect environmental and social impacts from the carrying out of the Project,
recommendation of mitigation measures for each negative impact identified, as well as
measures for enhancing each identified positive impact, along with the procedural and
institutional measures needed to implement such actions, measures and policies, including
-10-
any schedules to such plans, and as such plan may be amended by the Borrower from time
to time, with the prior written approval of the Bank.
8. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing", dated July 14,
2017.
9. 
"GIES" means General Inspectorate for Emergency Situations, established under the
Borrower's Ministry of Internal Affairs pursuant to the Borrower's Ordinance No. 88/2001
regarding the establishment, organization and functioning of the community public
services for emergency situations, as subsequently amended, or its successor thereof.
10. 
"MOIA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Internal Affairs or its successor thereof.
11. 
"MOPF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Public Finance or its successor thereof.
12. 
"Operating Costs" means expenditures incurred by PIU and PCU on the account of the
Project implementation, such as: office supplies, utilities, bank charges, communication
tools, advertisement fees translation and interpretation services, transportation, travel costs,
car rental and fuel costs, office rental and maintenance, moving expenses, equipment
maintenance and repair, printing and publications, and per diem allowances and
accommodation costs for PIU and PCU staff, insurance for goods and salaries for PIU and
PCU staff, including qualified social charges, but excluding salaries for the Borrower's
civil servants.
13. 
"Performance Indicators" means the indicators to be used for purposes of monitoring the
progress of the Project agreed between the Borrower and the Bank on May 29, 2018.
14. 
"Procurement Regulations" means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF Borrowers", dated
July 2016, revised November 2017.
15. 
"PIU" means the Borrower's Project Implementation Unit, established and maintained by
the Borrower, through GIES in accordance with Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement pursuant to General Inspector Order No. 1512/IG dated May 29, 2018.
16. 
"PCU" means the Borrower's Project Coordination Unit, established and maintained by the
Borrower, through MOIA in accordance with Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement pursuant to Disposition of State Secretary Number 530 dated May 29, 2018.
17. 
"Project Operational Manual" or "POM" means the Project Operational Manual prepared
by the Borrower, through MOIA and GIES in accordance with Section I.B. 1 of Schedule
2 to this Agreement and satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth the operational and
administrative responsibilities, procedures and rules for the implementation of the Project
and including the Environmental and Social Management Framework, the Performance
Indicators and the financial management arrangements for the Project, as the same may be
amended and supplemented from time to time with the Bank's prior written approval.
-11-
18. 
"Safeguard Instruments" means collectively, the EIA, ESMF, and ESMP, and "Safeguard
Instrument" means any of such Safeguards Instruments.
19. 
"Safeguard Policies" means, the Operational Policies (OPs) and Bank Procedures (BPs) of
the Bank, namely OP/BP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment), and OP/BP 4.11 (Physical
Cultural Resources), found on https://policies.worldbank.org.
20. 
"Training" means Project related study tours, training courses, seminars, workshops and
other training activities, including costs of training materials, space and equipment rental,
travel, accommodation and per diem costs of trainees and trainers, trainers' fees, and other
training related miscellaneous costs.
21. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the date of the Loan
Agreement" in the General Conditions.
-12-
