OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8850 -AL
Loan Agreement
(Regional and Local Roads Connectivity Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8850 -AL
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of fifty million Dollars
(USD50,000,000), ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Fixed Spread; subject to Section 3.02(e) of
the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March I and September 1 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project Implementing Entity in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and the Project Agreement.
-2-
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely the Project
Implementing Entity's Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of
the Project Implementing Entity to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement or the Subsidiary Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consist of the following, namely that any event
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 60 days
after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V- EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and the
Project Implementing Entity.
(b) 
The Project Implementing Entity has prepared and adopted the Project Operations
Manual.
5.02. 
The other matter mentioned in Section 9.02 (a) (ii) of the General Conditions consists of,
namely that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized by the Borrower and the
Project Implementing Entity and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the Project
Implementing Entity in accordance with its terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance and Economy or any successor
thereto.
6.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance and Economy
Bulevardi "Ddshmordt e Kombit", no3
Tirand, Albania; and
(b) 
the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile: 
Email:
355 42228494 
sekretariamin@financa.gov.al
6.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
-3-
(a) 
the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) 
the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
E-mail:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
msaliml@worldbank.org
64145(MCI)
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
REPUBLIC OF A 
A IA
By 
j
_/ uthorized R presentative
Name:rA 
P 
) 
!T1
Title: ;-t,N'67, 
n 
Nn 
t c 
Ccom 3m
Date: 
: 6. 2-o/ 6
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONS 
CTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authori 
d Representative
Name: 
6&
Title: 
(oljr 
Pec o
Date: 
cj(u/Ci- 
.o~
-4-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to improve access to selected agricultural and tourism
centers, and to strengthen their municipalities' capacity to manage their road assets.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. Accessibility Improvement
(a) Climate Resilient Road Rehabilitation Works.
(i) 
Support for the rehabilitation of regional and local roads in Selected
Municipalities, 
including 
footpaths, 
cycleways, 
safety improvements,
orientation signage and aesthetic considerations where roads serve tourism
areas, or pass through urban areas.
(ii) 
Support for the development of road designs and supervision of civil works,
including through the carrying out of technical and road safety audits.
(b) Road Safety Initiatives.
Support for identification of potential road safety interventions on roads other than
those referred to under Part 1 (a) above and implementation of such interventions, carrying
out of road risk mapping and road safety inspection of road sections linked to such Part
1(a) roads, to address accident blackspots.
Part 2: Capacity Building for Municipalities
(a) 
Build Municipal Capacity to Manage and Maintain Road Networks.
Support Selected Municipalities to develop municipal systems for road maintenance and
road planning, including through the following: (i) provision of advice to enhance existing
asset management systems to improve the planning and prioritization of maintenance and
rehabilitation activities; (ii) development of a standard service level agreement to improve
the efficiency of maintenance execution; (iii) provision of advice to develop a framework
for sustainable maintenance finance; and (iv) carrying out of capacity building activities
for the Selected Municipalities to effectively implement roads maintenance programs.
(b) 
Building New Economies.
Support Selected Municipalities for implementation of rural development programs,
including the 100 Villages Program and similar programs through provision of advice to:
(i) assess market potential at the village level to determine which productive activities yield
the highest return; (ii) prepare investment proposals to leverage grant funds available under
rural development programs to address market demands; and (iii) implement the activities
referred to in (i) and (ii).
-5-
Part 3. Implementation Management Support.
Support the Project Implementing Entity to carry out Project implementation, including
through the provision of incremental Operating Costs and Training, development and maintenance
of a Geographic Information System (GIS), use of a prioritization database for regional and local
roads and a Project impact assessment.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
Dedicated Staff
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to:
(a) 
maintain, throughout the implementation of the Project, its Dedicated Staff with
qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank;
(b) 
ensure that its Dedicated Staff carries out Project oversight and coordination of the
Selected Municipalities' technical inputs; and
(c) 
carry out Project implementation including financial management, procurement
and contract management.
2. 
Board of Trustees of the Project Implementing Entity
Further to the Project Implementing Entity's Legislation and its by-laws the Board of
Trustees of the Project Implementing Entity shall actively steer Project implementation in
accordance with Section I.A.2 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
B. 
Implementation Arrangements
1 .
Project Operations Manual
(a) 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to: (i) prepare and adopt
a Project Operations Manual in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, and
(ii) thereafter implement the Project in accordance with the Project Operations
Manual.
(b) 
Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower
shall ensure that the Project Implementing Entity shall not abrogate, amend,
suspend, waive or otherwise fail to enforce the Project Operations Manual, or any
provision thereof.
(c) 
In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of the Project Operations
Manual and the provisions of this Agreement or the Project Agreement, the
provision of this Agreement shall prevail.
2. 
Subsidiary Agreement
(a) 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds
of the Loan available on a grant basis to the Project Implementing Entity under a
-7-
subsidiary agreement ("Subsidiary Agreement") between the Borrower and the
Project Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions approved by the Bank.
(b) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the
Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate
or fail to enforce the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions.
C. Safeguards
1. 
In order to cause the proper implementation of the Project in an environmentally and
socially sound manner, the Borrower shall ensure the Project Implementing Entity to:
(a) 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Safeguards Instruments;
(b) 
prior to carrying out any works under the Project: (i) prepare ESMPs in accordance
with the respective ESMF, including disclosure and public consultation, in form
and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) implement the Project activities in
accordance with the respective ESMP;
(c) 
prior to carrying out any works under the Project which entail Involuntary
Resettlement, prepare a RAP in accordance with the RPF, including disclosure and
meaningful consultation with Project Affected Persons, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, and ensure that such RAP is implemented, including by
providing appropriate compensation consistent with the provisions of the RPF and
RAP, to the Project Affected Persons; and
(d) 
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Safeguards Instruments or any provision
thereof, without the prior approval of the Bank.
2. 
In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of any Safeguards Instruments
and the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
3. 
The Borrower, shall ensure the Project Implementing Entity to ensure that the terms of
reference of any consultancy in respect to the Project shall be satisfactory to the Bank
following its review thereof and, to that end, such terms of reference shall duly incorporate
the requirements of the Bank's Safeguards Policies then in force, as applied to the advice
conveyed through such technical assistance.
4. 
Without limitation upon its other reporting obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower
shall ensure the Project Implementing Entity, for each of the Safeguards Instruments
including for the related environmental and social plans, to collect, compile and furnish to
the Bank on a quarterly basis (or with more frequency or in a separate report whenever the
circumstances warrant), reports in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, on the
status of compliance with such Safeguard Instrument including the related environmental
and social plans, as part of the Project Reports, giving details of:
-8-
(a) 
measures taken in furtherance of the Safeguards Instruments including any related
environmental and social plans;
(b) 
conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the smooth
implementation of the Safeguards Instruments and any related environmental and
social plans (including Project-related accidents and complaints); and
(c) 
remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such conditions.
5. 
Without limitation to the excluded expenditures provision set forth in the ESMF and the
RPF, the Borrower, through the Project Implementation Entity, shall ensure that the
following activities shall not be eligible to be included in or funded under the Project,
namely any activities that would lead to conversion or degradation of critical natural
habitats or their supporting areas.
6. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Implementing Entity, maintain, throughout
Project implementation, and publicize the availability of a grievance redress mechanism,
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, to hear and determine fairly and in good
faith all complaints raised in relation to the Project, and take all measures necessary to
implement the determinations made by such mechanism in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Implementing Entity, furnish to the Bank each
Project Report, prepared and furnished by the Project Implementing Entity, not later than
forty-five days after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar semester.
Section III. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in
accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible Expenditures; and (b) pay the
Front-end Fee; in the amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth
against each Category of the following table:
-9-
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
Category 
(expressed in Dollars) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works and non- 
45,025,000 
100%
consulting services
(2) Consulting Services 
2,850,000 
100%
(3) Operating Costs and 
2,000,000 
100%
Training
(4) Front-End Fee 
125,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
50,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made for payments
made prior to the Signature Date.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2022.
Section IV. 
Other Undertakings
A. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to ensure that interim design
standards acceptable to the Bank shall be used for the design of the roads financed under
Part 1 of the Project. Alternative design standards may only be used following previous
written agreement between ADF, Selected Municipalities and the Bank.
- 10 
SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date ("Installment Share").
Level Principal Repayments
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
On each March I and September 1
Beginning September 1, 2024
through March 1, 2047 
2.13%
On September 1, 2047 
2.02%
- 11 
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"ADF" or "Albania Development Fund" means a non-for-profit organization with
administrative, financial, technical and legal autonomy established further to the
Borrower's Laws No. 10130 dated 11.05.2009 and No. 82, dated 17.07, or any successor
thereto acceptable to the Bank.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption
in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006
and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
3. 
"Bank's Safeguards Policies" means the Bank's operational policies and procedures, set
forth in the Bank's operational manual and identified as OP/BP 4.01, 4.04, 4.09, 4.10, 4.11,
4.12, 4.36 and 4.37, as said manual is published under www.WorldBank.orv/opmanual.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
5. 
"Cooperation Agreements" means an agreement entered into between the Project
Implementing Entity and a Selected Municipality as referred to in Section I.B.3 of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.
6. 
"Dedicated Staff" or "DS" means the staff appointed within the PIE to implement the
Project and referred to in Section I.A. 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement or any successor
thereto acceptable to the Bank.
7. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the framework
for the Project prepared by the Project Implementing Entity, and disclosed on the Project
Implementing Entity's website on December 22, 2017 and on the Bank's website on
January 10, 2018 which sets forth, inter alia, the modalities for site-specific environmental
and social screening, including: 
(a) guidelines for the identification of existing
environmental and social conditions and potential direct and indirect environmental and
social impacts and risks resulting from the carrying out of the Project; (b) guidelines for
the carrying out of environmental and social assessments and the preparation of
environmental 
and 
social 
management 
plans 
(ESMPs), 
when applicable; 
(c)
recommendation of mitigation measures for each negative impact identified; (d) measures
for enhancing each identified positive impact; and (e) guidelines for the preparation of
environmental and social monitoring plans for tracking the application of the mitigation
measures, as said framework may be amended from time to time with the Bank's prior
approval.
8. 
"Environmental and Social Management Plan(s)" or "ESMPs" means site-specific
environmental 
social 
management 
plans, satisfactory to the Bank, 
comprising
environmental mitigation plans and environmental monitoring plans to be prepared and
adopted by the Project Implementing Entity pursuant to the ESMF, wherein are set forth
specific details of measures to manage identified or potential environmental and social
- 12 
risks and to mitigate, reduce and/or offset adverse environmental and social impacts
associated with the implementation of activities under the Project, together with an
environmental and social baseline for each site, details of the relevant environmental
legislative framework, adequate institutional, monitoring and reporting arrangements
capable of ensuring proper implementation of, and regular feedback on compliance with
each ESMP, as the same may be amended and supplemented from time to time with the
Bank's prior written approval.
9. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing", dated July 14,
2017.
10. 
"Involuntary Resettlement" means any direct economic and social impact caused by: (a)
the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets
or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not
such persons must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to
legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood
of such persons.
11. 
"MoFE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and Economy or any successor thereto.
12. 
"Operating Costs" means the incremental expenses incurred by the Project Implementing
Entity, on account of Project implementation, which would not exist absent the Project,
and includes the costs for office rent, operation and maintenance of vehicles, 
office
equipment and supplies, communication costs, support for information systems,
translations, bank charges, travel and per diem costs, salaries of the Project Implementing
Entity contractual staff (excluding consulting services and salaries of officials of the
Borrower's civil service), Social Charges for staff of the Project Implementing Entity,
office administration costs, and other reasonable expenditures directly associated with the
carrying out of the Project, as agreed by the Bank; and based on an annual budget
acceptable to the Bank
13. 
"Procurement Regulations" means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF Borrowers", dated
July 2016, revised November 2017.
14. 
"Project Affected Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of the Project,
have been, or will be affected, by Involuntary Resettlement.
15. 
"Project Implementing Entity" or "PIE" means the Albanian Development Fund or ADF.
16. 
"Project Implementing Entity's Legislation" means the Borrower's Laws No. 10130 dated
11.05.2009 and No. 82, dated 17.07.2009, as amended.
17. 
"Project Operations Manual" means the manual to be prepared and adopted by the Project
Implementing Entity and satisfactory to the Bank, including a detailed description of the
Project, procedures for implementation of the Project, detailed institutional arrangements,
consistent with the provisions of this Agreement and with applicable laws and regulations
and including, inter alia, timetables of actions required to be carried out under the Project,
- 13 
staffing, the fiduciary, technical and operational aspects and procedures for implementation
of the Project, including the financial management procedures (budgeting, accounting and
internal control, disbursement and flow of funds, financial reporting, annual reports,
internal and external audit arrangements procedures and including the Project specific chart
of accounts), model Cooperation Agreement, procurement procedures, the ESMF and the
RPF, monitoring and evaluation arrangements, and other fiduciary and administrative
arrangements, as the same may be amended from time to time by agreement with the Bank.
18. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" or "RAP" means a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to be
prepared and implemented by the Project Implementing Entity for carrying out activities
under the Project in accordance with the Resettlement Policy Framework, and setting out,
inter alia, the principles and objectives, the Affected Persons' eligibility criteria,
compensation, assistance and rehabilitation entitlements, as well as the monitoring and
reporting arrangements in conformity with the Resettlement Policy Framework, as said
plan may be amended from time to time with the Bank's prior approval.
19. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the document prepared by the Project
Implementing Entity and disclosed on the Project Implementing Entity's website on
December 22, 2017and the Bank's website on January 10, 1018 satisfactory to the Bank,
defining the modalities for land acquisition under the Project and describing the policies,
procedures, plans and actions (including preparation of RAPs), and institutional measures
related to Involuntary Resettlement, including land acquisition and other social impacts
that may arise during the Project, as said framework may be amended from time to time
with the Bank's prior approval.
20. 
"Safeguards Instrument" means the ESMF, ESMP, RPF or any RAP for a Project activity
as the context may require; and "Safeguards Instruments" means, collectively, all such
frameworks or plans for the Project.
21. 
"Selected Municipality" means any of the Borrower's municipalities that may be agreed
between the Borrower and the Bank to participate in the Project, including Shkoder, Fier
and Pogradec.
22. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the date of the Loan
Agreement" in the General Conditions.
23. 
"Social Charges" means any payments, premia, or contributions for health and social
benefits provided to the Project Implementing Entity's staff pursuant to the Borrower's
Law No. 7703 dated May 11, 1993, as amended.
24. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.B.2 of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan
available to the Project Implementing Entity.
25. 
"Training" means expenditures (other than for consulting services), incurred by the Project
Implementing Entity in connection with the implementation of the Project, based on
periodic budgets acceptable to the Bank, for: (i) reasonable travel, room, board and per
diem expenditures incurred by trainers and trainees in connection with their training; (ii)
- 14 
course fees; (iii) training/workshop facility and equipment rentals; and (iv) training
material preparation, acquisition, reproduction and distribution expenses not included
under goods or service providers' contracts.
26. 
"100 Villages Program" means the Borrower's program adopted for the purpose of turning
100 villages in the Borrower's territory into rural development models through an
integrated and inter-governmental multi-sectorial intervention approach in development
interventions by the Borrower in its rural areas.
