OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8849-CN
Loan Agreement
(Jiangxi Integrated Rural and Urban Water Supply and
Wastewater Management Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8849-CN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
OF CHINA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of two hundred million
Dollars (USD 200,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project
described in Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may
apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are June 1 and December 1 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure
Limit (as said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of
this Section), the Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of
one half of one percent (0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess
-2-
Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for
each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if any)
shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set
forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during
which the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit,
the product of: (A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the
ratio of all (or, if the Bank so determines, a portion) of the Loan
to the aggregate amount of all (or the equivalent portions) of the
loans made by the Bank to the Borrower and to other borrowers
guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an exposure
surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined from
time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the
Bank's financial exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded,
would subject the Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined
from time to time by the Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total
financial exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by
the Bank.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions, Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that any of
the parties to the Subsidiary Agreement shall have failed to perform any of their
respective obligations thereunder.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of Project Implementing
Entity and Provincial Water Investment Group in accordance with Section I.A.2
of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
-3-
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the Subsidiary
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Project Implementing Entity
and Provincial Water Investment Group, respectively, and is legally binding upon
the parties thereto in accordance with its terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the Signature Date.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
6.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower's
address is:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Xicheng District
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China; and
(b) the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile: (86-10) 6855-2077
6.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank's address
is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-4-.
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By
Authorized Representative
Name:
Title: 
/ 
__ 
__
Date:____________
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authoriz 
Representative
Name: 
Title: 
- C 
I
Date:
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to increase access to, and improve operating
efficiency of, water supply services; and (b) to pilot provision of improved wastewater
management in selected counties in Jiangxi Province.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Expansion, Rehabilitation, and Modernization of Water Supply System
(a) 
(i) Construction, upgrade, repair and/or rehabilitation of urban and rural
water supply infrastructure including water intake works, water treatment
works and water distribution works such as pump stations, transmission
and distribution pipelines and control valves; and (ii) installation and/or
replacement of urban and rural household water service connections and
corresponding water meters.
(b) 
Design, procurement, installation and trial operation of a Smart Water
Supply Management System.
(c) 
Carrying out of energy audits of pump stations and water supply and
treatment plants, preparation of audit reports and carrying out of remedial
measures recommended in such reports.
(d) 
Conducting technical studies designed to inform modernization of rural
water supply management in Jiangxi Province, including studies on rural
water pricing and on alternative models for rural water supply
management.
Part 2: Demonstration of Rural Wastewater Management
(a) 
Design, construction and trial operation of wastewater management
system in Zhajin town in Xiushui County, such a system to comprise a
treatment plant, sewerage pipelines, household sewer connections, as well
as related public outreach and system management, operation and
maintenance.
(b) 
Conducting technical studies designed to improve rural wastewater
management in Jiangxi Province including a study on sustainable
mechanism for rural wastewater management and a feasibility study on
public-private partnership approach for rural wastewater management.
-6-
Part 3: Public Engagement and Project Management
(a) 
Carrying out a program to integrate public and community participation
into the Project, such a program to include such activities as: (i) public
dissemination, mobilization, and training (including media outreach); (ii)
establishment of community participation mechanisms; (iii) promotion of
women's participation in Project activities through inter alia gender-
sensitive needs assessment; (iv) participatory design for household sewers
connections; (v) participatory management of local water supply systems;
(vi) participatory monitoring of water quality; (vii) public participation in
water supply and wastewater management system operation and
maintenance; and (viii) behavioral change campaigns.
(b) 
Supporting the overall capacity of the Project Implementing Entity and
Project Counties to coordinate, manage and supervise the implementation
of the Project through such activities as: (i) undertaking preliminary and
final engineering designs and preparing bidding documents; 
(ii)
construction supervision; (iii) technical review of studies undertaken
under the Project; (iv) training and study tours; and (v) procurement of
office equipment and vehicles.
(c) 
Establishment and operation of an integrated management information
system and a monitoring and evaluation system.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Financing Arrangements
1. 
For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall make available the
proceeds of the Loan to the Project Implementing Entity, under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank, including the following principal terms:
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars or any other
Currency as the Loan may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion of the value of the currency or currencies so
withdrawn (such principal amount determined on the date, or respective
dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account).
(b) 
The principal amount so made available (including an amount equal to the
fee paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement) shall be recovered
over a period of twenty-nine (29) years, inclusive of a grace period of six
(6) years.
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of
Section 2.05 of this Agreement.
(d) 
A Commitment Charge shall be charged equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to: (a) manage, operate,
monitor, transfer and reconcile the proceeds of the Loan made available to it
pursuant to paragraph I above in accordance with arrangements and procedures
acceptable to the Bank; (b) take all required actions, including provision of timely
consents and approvals as may be necessary, to facilitate the utilization of said
Loan proceeds and the implementation of the Project and, to enable the Project
Implementing Entity to comply with its undertakings under the Project
Agreement; and (c) maintain all relevant records and documents related to the
Loan and the Project and provide promptly such documents and records, including
all other Project related information, as may be requested by the Borrower or the
Bank from time to time.
-8-
B. 
Safeguards and Dam Safety Measures
The Borrower shall take, and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to take,
all measures necessary to comply with, or all measures necessary to enable the
Project Implementing Entity to comply with, the provisions of Section I.B and I.C
of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reportina and Evaluation
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to furnish to the Bank
each Project Report not later than sixty (60) days after the end of each calendar
semester, covering the calendar semester.
Section III. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and
in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the
Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible
Expenditures; (b) pay the Front-end Fee; in the amount allocated and, if applicable,
up to the percentage set forth against each Category of the following table:
Category 
Amount of the 
Percentage of
Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
(expressed in 
(inclusive of Taxes)
USD)
(1) 
Goods, Works, Consulting
services, Training and Workshops, 
199,500,000 
100%
Incremental Operating Costs and
Non-consulting services for the
Project
(2) Front-end Fee 
500,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
200,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed USD 40,000,000 may be made for payments made
-9-
prior to this date but on or after January 23, 2018 for Eligible Expenditures under
Category (1).
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2024.
-10-
SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share").
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
June 1, 2024 
1.18%
December 1, 2024 
1.21%
June 1, 2025 
1.24%
December 1, 2025 
1.27%
June 1, 2026 
1.30%
December 01, 2026 
1.34%
June 1, 2027 
1.37%
December 1, 2027 
1.40%
June 1, 2028 
1.44%
December 1, 2028 
1.47%
June 1, 2029 
1.51%
December 1, 2029 
1.55%
June 1, 2030 
1.59%
December 1, 2030 
1.63%
June 1, 2031 
1.67%
December 1, 2031 
1.71%
June 1, 2032 
1.75%
December 1, 2032 
1.80%
June 1, 2033 
1.84%
December 1, 2033 
1.89%
June 1, 2034 
1.93%
December 1, 2034 
1.98%
June 1, 2035 
2.03%
December 1, 2035 
2.08%
June 1, 2036 
2.13%
December 1, 2036 
2.19%
June 1, 2037 
2.24%
December 1, 2037 
2.30%
June 1, 2038 
2.36%
December 1, 2038 
2.42%
June 1, 2039 
2.48%
December 1, 2039 
2.54%
June 1, 2040 
2.60%
December 1, 2040 
2.67%
-11-
June 1, 2041 
2.73%
December 1, 2041 
2.80%
June 1, 2042 
2.87%
December 1, 2042 
2.94%
June 1, 2043 
3.02%
December 1, 2043 
3.09%
June 1, 2044 
3.17%
December 1, 2044 
3.25%
June 1, 2045 
3.33%
December 1, 2045 
3.41%
June 1, 2046 
3.50%
December 1, 2046 
3.78%
-12-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"Annual Dam Safety Action Plan" means each of the plans referred to in Section
I.C.4 of Schedule to the Project Agreement.
2. 
"Annual Work Plan" means each of the consolidated annual work plans and
budgets for the Project to be prepared or updated by PWIG, submitted by the
Project Implementing Entity and approved by the Bank, on an annual basis as
provided for in Section I.A.5 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement; and
"Annual Work Plans" means, collectively, all such plans.
3. 
Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
4. 
"Bank's Safeguards Policies" means the operational policies and procedures for
the financing of development projects by the Bank at the date of this Agreement
and relating to Environmental Assessment, Natural Habitats, Pest Management,
Indigenous Peoples (Ethnic Minorities), Physical Cultural Resources, Involuntary
Resettlement, Forests, Safety of Dams, Projects on International Waterways, and
Projects in Disputed Areas, as published under http://policies.worldbank.org/ to
the extent they are applicable to the Project.
5. 
"Beneficiary Participation Manual" means a guideline prepared by the Project
Implementing Entity on how to implement activities under Part 3(a) of the Project.
6. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
7. 
"County Project Implementing Unit" means the unit referred to in Section I.A. 1(e)
of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and any successor thereto.
8. 
"County Project Leading Group" means the group referred to in Section I.A.1(d)
of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and any successor thereto.
9. 
"Ecological Protection Group" means the entity referred to in Section I.A. 1(g) of
the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and any successor thereto.
10. 
"Environmental Impact Assessment" means the environmental impact assessment
report, acceptable to the Bank, dated November 2017 and disclosed on the Bank's
external website (documents and reports) on November 26, 2017 (Report No.
SFG3822).
-13-
11. 
"Environmental 
and Social Management Plan" 
or "ESMP" means 
the
environmental and social management plan for the Project, acceptable to the Bank,
dated November 2017 and disclosed on the Bank's external website (documents
and reports) on November 25, 2017 (Report No. SFG3778), which sets out the
environmental and social protection measures in respect of the Project - including
for dam safety measures and measures for protection of physical cultural resources,
as well as administrative, monitoring, supervision and training arrangements to
ensure the implementation of said plan, as said plan may be revised from time to
time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes all
schedules and annexes supplemental thereto.
12. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project
Financing", dated July 14, 2017.
13. 
"Global Expert Group" means the group referred to in Section I.A.1(i) of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement, and any successor thereto.
14. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the reasonable costs incurred for purposes
of Project management and implementation based on the Annual Work Plans
approved in advance by the Bank, on account of office rental, supplies and
consumables, utilities, bank charges, communications, mass media and printing
services, interpretation and translation services, vehicle rental, operation,
maintenance, and insurance, building and equipment maintenance, local
transportation, domestic travel, lodging, and subsistence allowances, and salaries
of contractual and temporary staff, but excluding salaries and any salary
supplements of members of the Borrower's or the Project Implementing Entity's
civil service.
15. 
"Independent Expert" means any of the independent qualified dam professionals
who have not been involved with the investigation, design, construction, or
operation of the dam that they are tasked to inspect.
16. 
"Jiangxi Provincial Water Resources Department" and the acronym "PWRD"
mean the agency of the Jiangxi Province responsible for water resources, or any
successor thereto.
17. 
"Procurement Regulations" means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF
Borrowers", dated July 2016, revised November 2017.
18. 
"Project Affected Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of the
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts
caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of
shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or
-14-
means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to another location;
or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected
areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such persons; and a "Project
Affected Person" means any of such Project Affected Persons.
19. 
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and the Project
Implementing Entity of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to
the Project Agreement.
20. 
"Project Counties" means, collectively, the following counties of Jiangxi Province
selected to participate in the Project: Yongxin; Linchuan; Dongxiang; Jinxi;
Nanfeng; Xiushui; and Leping, provided that the list of such Project Counties may
be amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank; and
"Project County" means, individually, any of such Project Counties.
21. 
"Project Dams" means the existing dams/ reservoirs on which the Project is
directly dependent as listed in the Environmental and Social Management Plan.
22. 
"Project Implementation Plan" means the Project Implementing Entity's plan
dated February 2018, acceptable to the Bank, which incorporates the Procurement
Plan, procurement manual, financial management manual, the Project's results
framework and performance indicators, technical modules, and other operational
arrangements for the Project, as the same may be revised from time to time with
the prior written agreement of the Bank.
23. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means the Borrower's Jiangxi Province, or any
successor thereto.
24. 
"Provincial Project Implementing Unit" means the unit referred to in Section
I.A. 1(c) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and any successor thereto.
25. 
"Provincial Project Leading Group" means the group referred to in Section I.A. 1(a)
of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and any successor thereto.
26. 
"Provincial Project Management Office" means the office referred to in Section
I.A. 1(b) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and any successor thereto.
27. 
"Provincial Water Investment Group" and the acronym "PWIG" mean the state-
owned enterprise established and operating according to the laws of the Borrower
and responsible for providing integrated urban and rural water supply services in
Jiangxi Province.
28. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" or "RAP" means the consolidated resettlement action
plan for the Project, acceptable to the Bank, dated October 2017 and disclosed on
-15-
the Bank's external website (documents and reports) on November 26, 2017
(Report No. SFG 3830), setting forth, inter alia: (i) the principles and procedures
governing the acquisition of land required for the Project and related facilities; (ii)
actions and measures for the payment of compensation to Project Affected Persons
and for their resettlement and rehabilitation; (iii) grievance redress mechanisms;
and (iv) reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said
plan, as the same may be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement
of the Bank; and such term includes all attachments and annexes supplemental to
said plan.
29. 
"Safeguards Instruments" means, collectively, Beneficiary Participation Manual,
Environmental Impact Assessment, Environmental and Social Management Plan,
and Resettlement Action Plan, as well as any attachments, schedules and annexes
supplemental to said instruments.
30. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the
date of the Loan Agreement" in the General Conditions.
31. 
"Smart Water Supply Management System" means the system of sensors, meters,
controls, data transmission devices, data storage and processing equipment,
management and end-user terminals, software, user interfaces and applications,
and other associated infrastructure designed and developed under the project to
monitor, manage, and control the water and wastewater systems.
32. 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.A.2 of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement, to be entered into between Project
Implementing Entity and PWIG, acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with the
terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.
33. 
"Technical Expert Panel Unit" means the group referred to in Section I.A.1(h) of
the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and any successor thereto.
34. 
"Training and Workshops" means the costs of training activities under the Project,
based on the Annual Work Plans, and attributable to seminars, workshops, and
domestic and overseas training, along with travel and subsistence allowances for
training participants, services of trainers, rental of training facilities, preparation
and reproduction of training materials, and other activities directly related to
course preparation and implementation.
35. 
"Water Affairs Group" means a subsidiary company of PWIG, referred to in
Section I.A.I(f) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, responsible for
provision of water supply services in the Jiangxi Province, and any successor
thereto.
