OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8834-PA
Loan Agreement
(Support for the National Indigenous Peoples Development Plan Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of eighty million Dollars
($80,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in
Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may
apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
-2-
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower, through MINGOB, shall: (a) cause the PEA to carry out Parts 1 and
2 of the Project with the assistance of MINSA and MEDUCA; and (b) carry out
Part 3 of the Project, all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following, namely, that the
PEA shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations under the PEA
Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to
the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that
the Borrower has adopted the Operational Manual in a manner acceptable to the
Bank.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance.
6.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) the Borrower's address is:
Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas
Viceministerio de Economia
Direcci6n de Financiamiento Publico
Edificio Ogawa, Via Espafia y Calle 52E
Corregimiento de Bella Vista
Apartado postal: 0816-02886
Ciudad de Panama
Rep6blica de Panama; and
-3-
(b) the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
E-mail:
ridcp@mef.gob.pa
6.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
E-mail:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
ysakho@worldbank.org
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
Aut 
'zed 
epresentative
Name:D 
CD ti 0 
LA g t u Ag>
Title: 
i miSeR oFz Ecct4 qAjT^AftO ki<tQCE
Date: JUAja t-, 2-O f'
INTERNATIONAL 
NK F R
RECONSTRUCTIO 
N 
V LOPMENT
By
Authorized Repr entative
Name:aJ 
p- C-E FA Li A iR
Title:i'jce 
9I séDNT LATéI AMEc- CA
Tug CARi>ssEAN 
RE_r,'cmI
Date: ju E 
i 
, 2- o1 2
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to strengthen: (a) the capacity of Indigenous
Authorities and the Borrower to jointly plan and implement development investments for
Indigenous Territories; and (b) the delivery of selected public services in those Indigenous
Territories, as identified in the National Indigenous Peoples Development Plan.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Institutional Strengthening and Governance Capacity for the Borrower's
Authorities and Indigenous Authorities
Enhance the capacity of the Borrower and the Indigenous Authorities to carry out
key governance functions necessary to improve the opportunities and living conditions in
Indigenous Territories, including:
1.1 
The institutional strengthening of VMAI to effectively plan and coordinate public
policies, investments, dialogue and conflict resolution with indigenous peoples,
through: (a) the carrying out of an institutional assessment and the implementation
of an action plan to strengthen VMAI's capacity to deliver effectively on its
institutional and legal mandate with indigenous peoples; (b) the coordination and
establishment of consultation platforms with indigenous peoples and with other
actors to promote the implementation of the National Indigenous Peoples
Development Plan; (c) the provision of support for the design and operation of
information systems to monitor public investments in Indigenous Territories; and
(d) the provision of support for the implementation of relevant sector laws for
indigenous peoples.
1.2 
The carrying out of capacity building activities and strengthening of Indigenous
Authorities for effective governance within their territories, through: (a) the
carrying out of an institutional assessment and the implementation of an action
plan to strengthen the Indigenous Authorities; (b) the purchase of equipment and
the provision of support for the carrying out of small-scale infrastructure
investments; (c) the provision of support for territorial planning processes; and (d)
the design and implementation of a leadership program for male and female
indigenous peoples' representatives, including youth.
1.3 
The institutional strengthening and the provision of support for selected
Borrower's authorities to enhance public planning and investments in Indigenous
Territories, through: (a) the design and consultation of methodologies for the
carrying out of selected censuses in Indigenous Territories; (b) the improvement
-6-
of the SINIP system to track public investment projects for Indigenous Territories
and their relevant consultation processes; (c) the carrying out of an institutional
assessment and the implementation of action plans to strengthen both MINSA and
MEDUCA's capacity to deliver effectively on their institutional mandates with
indigenous peoples; (d) the preparation and consultation of regulations for relevant
sector laws for indigenous peoples; and (e) the provision of support for the
participation of Indigenous Authorities in municipal developing planning
processes mandated under Law No. 66.
Part 2: Improved Quality and Cultural Pertinence of Select Public Service Delivery
in Education, Health, and Water and Sanitation in Indigenous Territories
Improve the quality and cultural pertinence of service provision in the health,
education, and water and sanitation sectors in the Indigenous Territories based on
indigenous peoples' vision and priorities for said sectors, including:
2.1 
(a) The design and construction of new, or rehabilitation or expansion of existing,
educational centers; (b) the design and expansion of the intercultural bilingual
education curriculum in Indigenous Territories; (c) the provision of technical
assistance to improve school management; and (d) the design and implementation
of a program to promote access, retention and pertinence of higher education for
indigenous peoples.
2.2 
(a) The design and construction of new, or rehabilitation or expansion of existing,
health posts and centers; (b) the design and implementation of an intercultural
health system, including the development of intercultural health protocols; and (c)
the carrying out of capacity building activities for health care providers working
in Indigenous Territories.
2.3 
(a) The design and construction of new, and rehabilitation of existing, water and
sanitation systems; and (b) the design and implementation of a capacity building
program to improve the operation and maintenance of water and sanitation systems
and promote behavioral change in basic hygiene and sanitation practices among
indigenous communities.
Part 3: Prooect Management, Monitorine and Evaluation
Provision of support for Project supervision, planning, coordination, social
management, communication, monitoring and evaluation, including the carrying out of the
Project's audits and the hiring of the PEA.
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements.
1I 
The Borrower shall: (a) operate and maintain, throughout Project implementation,
the project coordinating unit ("PCU") within VMAI, responsible for the
management, coordination, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the
Project; and (b) ensure that the PCU shall have a structure, responsibilities and key
staff with functions, experience, responsibilities, qualifications and financing
acceptable to the Bank, as set forth in the Operational Manual.
2. 
Not later than (3) three months after the Effective Date the Borrower shall
establish, and thereafter operate and maintain, throughout Project implementation,
a committee (the "Project Steering Committee"), chaired by MINGOB and a
representative of the Indigenous Peoples Roundtable and comprised of
representatives of MINGOB, 
the Indigenous Peoples Roundtable, 
MEF,
MEDUCA and MINSA, with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank
and defined in the Operational Manual, including, inter alia: (a) the endorsement
of annual operation plans ("AOPs"); (b) the review of the progress of Project
implementation based on information in each pertinent Progress Report and AOP;
(c) the provision of political and strategic guidance; and (d) the carrying out of
general oversight of the Project and of inter-institutional coordination, to facilitate
the participation, cooperation and resolution of high-level outstanding issues
among, inter alia, MINGOB, MEDUCA, MINSA, the PEA, 
the Indigenous
Peoples Roundtable, and/or other external actors.
3. 
(a) 
For purposes of carrying out Part 1 and 2 of the Project, and prior to the
carrying out of any activity under said Parts of the Project which falls
under the administrative jurisdiction of MINSA or MEDUCA (as the case
may be), the Borrower, through MINGOB, shall enter into an arrangement
with 
each 
MINSA 
and 
MEDUCA 
(the 
"Inter-institutional
Arrangements"), all under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank,
which shall include, inter alia, the obligation of MINSA and MEDUCA
to: (i) assist the Borrower, through MINGOB and with the assistance of
the PEA, in the carrying out of the corresponding activities under Parts I
and 2 of the Project; (ii) appoint a representative to the Project Steering
Committee; and (iii) provide the necessary counterpart resources to
operate and maintain Project investments.
-8-
(b) 
Except the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through MINGOB,
shall not assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any
Interinstitutional Arrangement or any provision thereof.
4. 
(a) 
The Borrower, through the PCU, shall: (i) carry out Part 3 of the Project;
and (ii) carry out and cause PEA to carry out Part I and 2 of the Project, in
accordance with the provisions of a manual ("Operational Manual"), which
shall include, the rules, methods, guidelines, standard documents and
procedures for the carrying out of the Project, including but not limited to
the following: (I) a detailed description of Project implementation activities
and the detailed institutional arrangements for the Project; (II) the Project's
administrative, budgeting, accounting, auditing, reporting, financial,
procurement and disbursement procedures; (Ill) the monitoring indicators
for the Project referred to in Section II below; (IV) the safeguard
instruments referred to in Section I.D of this Schedule; (V) the institutional
and administrative mechanisms established to ensure inter-institutional
coordination; and (VI) the eligibility criteria for the investments to be
carried out under Part 2 of the Project.
(b) 
In the event of conflict between any provision of the Operational Manual
and this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
(c) 
Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree in writing, the
Borrower shall not abrogate, amend, suspend, waive or otherwise fail to
enforce the Operational Manual or any provision thereof.
B. 
PEA Agreement.
1. 
For purposes of carrying out Parts 1 and 2 of the Project, the Borrower, through
MINGOB, shall: (a) not later than four (4) months after the Effective Date, select
and hire an entity acceptable to the Bank (the "PEA") under terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank, and in accordance with Section 5.13 (Procurement) of the
General Conditions; and (b) immediately thereafter, make the proceeds of the Loan
allocated to finance said Parts of the Project available to the PEA under an
agreement (the "PEA Agreement"), to be entered between the Borrower, through
MINGOB, and the PEA, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank and as
set forth in the Project Operational Manual, including the PEA's obligation to
comply with the pertinent provisions of this Schedule as applicable to said Parts of
the Project.
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the PEA
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive, terminate or fail to
enforce the PEA Agreement or any of its provisions.
-9-
3. 
Without limitation to the provisions in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
Section I.B. 1 of this Schedule 2, in exceptional circumstances, and subject to the
Bank's prior written approval, the Borrower, through the PCU, shall directly
implement selected activities under Parts I and 2 of the Project, all in accordance
with the pertinent provisions of this Agreement.
C. 
Action Plan.
1. 
The Borrower, through MEF and MINGOB, shall: (a) not later than thirty six (36)
months after the Effective Date (or such other date as the Bank shall establish by
notice to the Borrower), carry out jointly with the Bank, a midterm review of the
progress made in carrying out the Project and the achievement of its objective (the
"Midterm Review") in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank,
which shall include, inter alia, a review of the results of the report mentioned in
paragraph 2 below and an assessment of the conditions for potentially downsizing
the PEA or terminating the PEA Agreement (as the case may be), or alternatively
continuing with the extension of the duration period of the PEA Agreement; (b)
not later than four (4) weeks (or such other date as the Bank shall establish by
notice to the Borrower) after the conclusion of the Midterm Review: (i) prepare
and furnish to the Bank, an action plan (including a timetable), acceptable to the
Bank, which shall include, inter alia, the recommendations and actions to be
undertaken by the Borrower resulting from the Midterm Review; and (ii)
immediately thereafter, implement or cause to be implemented said action plan in
accordance with its terms.
2. 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph I of this Section, the Borrower,
through MEF and MINGOB, shall, not later than thirty (30) days prior to the
Midterm Review (or such other date as the Bank shall establish by notice to the
Borrower), prepare and furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request (which report shall be consulted with
the Indigenous Peoples Roundtable and agreed upon with the Project Steering
Committee) concerning the readiness for the transfer of Project implementation
responsibilities of the PEA in respect of Parts 1 and 2 of the Project to the
Borrower, through the PCU.
D. 
Safeguards.
1. 
The Borrower, through MINGOB shall, and shall cause PEA to, carry out the
Project in accordance to the provisions of the ESMF.
2. 
The Borrower, through MINGOB, shall, and shall cause PEA to, ensure that the
terms of reference for any consultancy in respect of any Project activity shall be
satisfactory to the Bank following its review thereof and, to that end, such terms
of reference shall duly incorporate the requirements of the Bank Safeguards
-10-
Policies then in force, as applied to the advice conveyed through such technical
assistance.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reportin2 and Evaluation
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar
semester.
Section HI. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and
in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the
Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: finance Eligible
Expenditures; in the amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the percentage set
forth against each Category of the following table:
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) 
Goods, 
works, 
80,000,000 
100%
non-consulting
services, 
consulting
services, 
Operating
Costs and Training
under the Project
TOTAL AMOUNT 
80,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the Signature Date
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2023.
-11-
SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share").
Level Principal Repayments
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
On each February 15 and August 15
Beginning February 15, 2024 
2.56%
through August 15, 2042
On February 15, 2043 
2.72%
-12-
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
2. 
"AOP" means any given annual operation plan, acceptable to the Bank, which
details the Project activities to be implemented during each calendar year of Project
implementation.
3. 
""Bank's Safeguard Policies" means the Bank's operational safeguard policies and
procedures, set forth in the Bank's Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04,
4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.36 and 4.37, or such policies and procedures then in force.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
5. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the
Borrower's framework dated January 8, 2018 acceptable to the Bank, which was
disclosed to the public on MINGOB's website on January 8, 2018, and on the
Bank's website on January 8, 2018, which contains, inter alia: (a) the social risk
management measures in respect of the Project, including, inter alia: (i)
mechanisms and procedures for ensuring free, prior and informed consultation; (ii)
participation of indigenous peoples in the design, implementation, monitoring and
evaluation of Project investments at relevant levels, when applicable; (iii)
procedures for documenting broad community support for Project investments;
(iv) protocols for voluntary land donation; and (v) grievance redress and conflict
resolution mechanisms; (b) the environmental protection measures in respect of the
Project, including:, inter alia (i) measures for chance findings of physical cultural
property; (ii) protection of natural habitats; (iii) guidelines for the identification of
existing environmental conditions and potential direct and indirect environmental
impacts resulting from the carrying out of the Project; (iv) guidelines for the
carrying out of environmental assessments and the preparation of environmental
management plans, when applicable; (v) the recommendation of mitigation
measures for each negative impact identified; and (vi) measures for enhancing each
identified positive impact; and (c) the eligibility criteria for the investments to be
carried out under Part 2 of the Project, as said framework may be updated and/or
amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
6. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project
Financing", dated July 14, 2017.
-13-
7. 
"Indigenous Authorities" means the representatives of the Indigenous Territories
selected by the corresponding governing traditional system of each Indigenous
Territory for the purpose of ensuring their internal governability and coordinating
with the Borrower's authorities regarding the development and wellbeing of the
indigenous peoples' communities.
8. 
"Indigenous Territories" means the communities, collective lands, and semi-
autonomous territories (Comarcas) that subscribe to the following twelve (12)
traditional governance congresses (Congresos) and councils (Consejos) within the
Borrower's territory: (i) Congreso General de la Comarca Embera Wounaan; (ii)
Consejo General del Pueblo Bribri; (iii) Congreso General de la Comarca Ngibe-
Bugld; (iv) Consejo General del Pueblo Naso Tjer-di; (v) Congreso General de la
Comarca Kuna de Wargandi; (vi) Congreso Nacional del Pueblo Wounaan; (vii)
Congreso General de la Comarca Kuna de Madungandi; (viii) Congreso General
EmberM de Alto Bayano; (ix) Congreso General de la Comarca Kuna Yala; (x)
Congreso General de Tierras Colectivas Embera y Wounaan; (xi) Congreso
General Kuna de Dagargunyala; and (xii) Congreso General Buglj.
9. 
"Indigenous Peoples Roundtable" means a political coordination platform
conformed by Indigenous Authorities and MINGOB which purpose is to promote
dialogue, coordination and consensual decision-making within the framework of
the National Indigenous Peoples Development Plan.
10. 
"Inter-institutional Arrangements" means any of the arrangements referred to in
Section I.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
11. 
"Law No. 66" means the Borrower's law No. 66 dated October 29, 2015 (published
in the Borrower's Official Gazette on October 30, 2015) on the decentralization of
the public administration.
12. 
"MEDUCA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education, or any successor
thereto.
13. 
"MEF" means the Borrower's Minister of Economy and Finance, or any successor
thereto.
14. 
"MINGOB" means the Borrower's Ministry of Governance, or any successor
thereto.
15. 
"MINSA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health, or any successor thereto.
16. 
"National Indigenous Peoples Development Plan" means a framework document
prepared through a participative process lead by the Indigenous Authorities, which
presents an integral development model based on three (3) strategic pillars: (a)
political and legal (governance and land rights); (b) economic (productive
-14-
activities and food security); and (c) social (access to basic infrastructure and
services), reflecting the indigenous peoples' own views and priorities for
development, 
and 
published 
in 
the 
following 
website:
http://www.pa.undp.org/content/dam/panama/docs/documentos/undppa 
finalp
Ian desarrollo pueblos indigenas.pdf
17. 
"Operating Costs" means the incremental expenses incurred on account of Project
implementation, supervision, monitoring and evaluation, which may include office
supplies, reasonable commercial banking charges and fees, vehicle operation and
maintenance, communication and insurance costs, operation and maintenance of
office equipment, office administration costs, utilities, travel, and per diem, and
remuneration of locally contracted employees, none of which would have been
incurred in the absence of the Project.
18. 
"Operational Manual" means the Borrower's manual, acceptable to the Bank, and
referred to in Section I.A.4(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may
be amended from time to time in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
19. 
"PCU" means the unit referred to in Section l.A. I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
or any successor thereto, acceptable to the Bank.
20. 
"PEA" means a Project executing agency procured in accordance with the Section
5.13 of the General Conditions and referred to in Section I.B.1(a) of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
21. 
"PEA Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.B. 1(b) of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
22. 
"Procurement Regulations" means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF
Borrowers", dated July 2016, revised November 2017.
23. 
"Project Steering Committee" means the committee referred to in Section I.A.2 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
24. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the
date of the Loan Agreement" in the General Conditions.
25. 
"SINIP" means the Borrower's national system for public investments established
by the Borrower's Decree No. 148 dated December 11, 2001 and published in the
Borrower's Official Gazette on December 26, 2001.
26. 
"Training" means reasonable expenditures (other than for consulting services and
non-consulting services) incurred by trainers, trainees and workshop participants
-15-
for reasonable travel, room, board, and per diem expenses in connection with
training and workshops under the Project, including registration fees, facility and
equipment rentals.
27. 
"VMAI" means the Vice Ministry of Indigenous Affairs established within
MINGOB.
