OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8639-BR
Loan Agreement
(Paraiba Sustainable Rural Development Project
Projeto Paraiba Rural Sustentavel)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF PARAIBA
Dated 
K 
cJ 
A 
, 201-
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8639-BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
Qcc½ .
, 2013 between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") and STATE OF
PARAIBA ("Borrower"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty million Dollars ($50,000,000),
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement
("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to this
Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower's Representative for purposes
of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is
the Secretary of Planning, Budget, Management and Finance.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure
Limit (as said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of
this Section), the Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of
one half of one percent (0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess
Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for
each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if any)
shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set
forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during
which the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit,
the product of: (A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the
ratio of all (or, if the Bank so determines, a portion) of the Loan
to the aggregate amount of all (or the equivalent portions) of the
loans made by the Bank to the Borrower, the Guarantor and to
other borrowers guaranteed by the Guarantor that are also subject
to an exposure surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably
determined from time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the
Bank's financial exposure to the Guarantor which, if exceeded,
would subject the Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined
from time to time by the Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total
financial exposure to the Guarantor, as reasonably determined by
the Bank.
2.07. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.08. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.09. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time, in each case with prior non-objection of
the Guarantor, through the Secretariat of the National Treasury of the
Guarantor's Ministry of Finance, request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
-2-
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall carry out the Project through COOPERAR, with the assistance
of: (a) Community Associations (CAs) for Parts 1 (b) and 2 (a) and (b) of the
Project; (b) Producer Organizations (POs) for Parts I (c) and 3 of the Project; (c)
AESA for Part 2 (c) of the Project; (d) SEIRHMACT for Part 1 (e) of the Project;
and (e) CINEP for Parts I (f) and 3 of the Project, all in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following, namely that the Loan has
been validly registered with the Guarantor's Central Bank.
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Governor.
5.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Governo do Estado da Paraiba
Paldcio da Redengdo
Praqa Presidente Epitdcio Pessoa S/N, Centro
58.013-140, Jodo Pessoa, PB
Brazil
Phone: (55-83) 3216-8015
Facsimile: (55-83) 3214-1891
With copies to:
Projeto Cooperar
BR 230 - KM 14 - Estrada de Cabedelo
58.3 10-000, PB
Phone: (55-83) 3246-8644
E-mail: gestor.cooperar@gmail.com
Controladoria Geral do Estado da Paraiba
Av. Avenida Rio Grande do Sul, 1280 - Bairro dos Estados
58.030-021, Jo5o Pessoa, PB
Phone: (55-83) 3218-7537/7515
E-mail: gecrefigcge.pb.gov.br
-4-
Minist6rio do Planejamento, Orgamento e Gestdo
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Esplanada dos Ministdrios, Bloco "K" - 50 andar
70040-906, Brasilia, DF
Brazil
Facsimile: (55-61) 2020-5006
5.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
AGREED at EMS I'U 
6L 
1QA 
E cA' j I ~ 
OA- ) Q as
of the day and year first abov6 written. 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By 
Authorized Representative
S ATE 
PA 
IBA
Authorized Representative
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve access to water, reduce agro-climatic
vulnerability and increase access to markets of the Borrower's rural inhabitants.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1 - Institutional Strengthening
(a) 
Carrying out a communication campaign to: (i) inform stakeholders about the
scope and rules of the Project; (ii) publish and disseminate the Project; and (iii)
promote investments and attract buyers in rural value chains under the Project.
(b) 
Strengthening the institutional capacity of CAs and Municipal Councils to: (i)
improve their governance and managerial skills for operations and maintenance of
community infrastructure; (ii) provide hygiene, environmental and nutritional
training to CA members; and (iii) provide training to farmers to facilitate adoption
of good agricultural and environmental practices, including the use of climate
information for decision making.
(c) 
Strengthening the institutional capacity of POs to: (i) comply with organizational
and business regulations; and (ii) improve organizational, managerial, business
and risk-management skills.
(d) 
(i) Provision of training to technical service providers which may provide technical
support to CAs, POs, COOPERAR and any other selected public institution, under
the Project; and (ii) establish a technical service provider database.
(e) 
Strengthening the institutional capacity of SEIRHMACT and other selected public
institutions to implement a management model for improving rural water and
sanitation services, including, inter alia, the provision of support to: (i) define and
establish sub-sector institutional arrangements; (ii) improve coordination between
sub-sector institutions and programs; (iii) establish an information system for
registering and monitoring the status of rural water and sanitation systems; (iv)
pilot the implementation of technical assistance mechanisms and management
models for rural water systems; (v) the federation of CAs; and (vi) provide training
and technical assistance to improve the capacities of CAs to manage, operate and
maintain rural water systems.
(f) 
Strengthening of CINEP's and other selected partners' capacity for targeting and
reaching out to potential investors and buyers, and facilitating their decision to
enter into Productive Alliances.
-6-
Part 2 - Water Access and Agro-Climatic Vulnerability Reduction
(a) 
Provision of support for:
(i) 
identifying water supply investments, including, inter alia, construction
and rehabilitation of piped and non-piped water systems, desalinization
facilities and household rainwater harvesting systems, and Agro-Climatic
Vulnerability Reduction Subprojects;
(ii) 
carrying out pre-investment studies for water supply investments
identified under sub-paragraph (a) (i) herein, and for Agro-Climatic
Vulnerability Reduction Subprojects; and
(iii) 
carrying out the water supply investments mentioned under (i) herein.
(b) 
Provisions of Matching Grants to the CAs for carrying out the Agro-Climatic
Vulnerability Reduction Subprojects.
(c) 
Provision of support to AESA for the establishment of an Agro-Climatic Risk
Information System.
Part 3 - Productive Alliances
(a) 
Provision of support for:
(i) 
identifying, and implementing Productive Alliances; and
(ii) 
carrying out pre-investment studies for Productive Alliances, including the
formulation of business plans and associated to Productive Alliance
Subprojects.
(b) 
Provision of Matching Grants to the POs for carrying out the Productive Alliance
Subprojects.
Part 4 - Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
Provision of support to the Borrower for carrying out:
(a) 
Project coordination and management;
(b) 
monitoring, results evaluation and impact assessment of Project activities;
(c) 
Project fiduciary administration, internal controls and audits;
(d) 
Project safeguards management;
-7-
(e) 
independent financial and technical evaluations of Productive Alliances' business
plans;
(f) 
a citizen's engagement mechanism (Ouvidoria); and
(g) 
Project related studies.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall operate and maintain, throughout the implementation of the
Project, a Project coordination unit (COOPERAR), headed by a Project
coordinator and with structure, functions and responsibilities acceptable to the
Bank, including, inter alia: (a) the responsibility of the overall management,
planning, coordination, monitoring and evaluation of the Project, including the
fiduciary activities and safeguards compliance; and (b) the provision of technical
cooperation and support to the CAs and POs during the carrying out of their
respective activities under the Project.
2. 
The Borrower shall: (a) at least once a year during Project implementation and not
later than December 7 of each year, commencing on the first such date after the
Effective Date, prepare and furnish to the Bank, a plan (the Annual Operating
Plan), acceptable to the Bank, for the Project's operation during the following
twelve months; and (b) thereafter, carry out and/or cause to be carried out, the
pertinent Annual Operating Plan in accordance with its terms and in a manner
acceptable to the Bank.
B. 
Operational Manual
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project, and/or cause the Project to be carried out,
in accordance with the provisions of a manual (the Operational Manual),
satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia:
(a) 
the procedures for the implementing, monitoring and evaluation of the
Project (including the technical, procurement, disbursement, financial
management, social and environmental requirements thereof);
(b) 
the eligibility criteria for the selection of POs and CAs;
(c) 
detailed social, economic, financial, technical and environmental criteria
for the selecting, evaluation and ranking of Subprojects;
(d) 
the functions, responsibilities, structure and key staff composition of the
COOPERAR;
(e) 
the criteria for selecting the investments under Part 2 (a) of the Project;
-9-
(f) 
the negative list of the type of investments that will not be supported under
the Project;
(g) 
model forms of Subproject Agreements;
(h) 
indicators to be used for Project monitoring and evaluation; and
(i) 
the Safeguard Documents.
2. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, waive or
fail to enforce any provision of the Operational Manual without the Bank's prior
written approval. In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational
Manual and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
C. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D. 
Technical Cooperation Agreements
1. 
Prior to the carrying out of any Project activity which requires the assistance of
SEIRHMACT, AESA, CINEP, or any other selected public institution, the
Borrower, through COOPERAR, shall enter into a cooperation agreement with
each of said entities (the "Technical Cooperation Agreement"), under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia, the obligation of
SEIRHMACT, AESA, CINEP and any other selected public institution to: (a)
assist the Borrower in the carrying out of said Project activity or activities; and (b)
comply with the pertinent obligations under this Agreement, all as applicable to
the corresponding Project activity.
2. 
The Borrower, through COOPERAR, shall exercise its rights and carry out its
obligations under each Technical Cooperation Agreement in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes
of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate, waive, terminate or fail to enforce any Technical
Cooperation Agreement or any of its provisions.
E. 
Subprojects
For the purposes of carrying out Parts 2 (b) and 3 (b) of the Project, the Borrower,
through COOPERAR, shall:
(a) 
after having selected any given Subproject in accordance with the
guidelines and procedures set forth in the Operational Manual, enter into
- 10 
an agreement with the relevant PO or CA, as the case may be, ("Subproject
Agreement"), under terms and conditions approved by the Bank and
included in the Operational Manual, for the provision of the corresponding
Matching Grant for the implementation of said Subproject; and
(b) 
exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each Subproject
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and
the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate,
waive, terminate or fail to enforce any Subproject Agreement or any
provision thereof.
F. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the CAs, POs, AESA, SEIRHMACT and/or CINEP
to implement the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Environmental
and Social Management Framework (ESMF), the Involuntary Resettlement Policy
Framework (IRPF), and the Indigenous and Quilombola Peoples Planning
Framework (IQPPF). The Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive,
or permit to be assigned, amended, abrogated or waived any of the Safeguards
Documents or provision thereof, without the prior approval of the Bank.
2. 
If any Project activity (including any Subproject) requires Resettlement, the
Borrower shall: (a) prior to carrying out any such Project activity (including any
Subproject), prepare a resettlement action plan in accordance with the IRPF, and
disclose said plan in accordance with the procedures set forth in the IRPF; and (b)
thereafter implement, or cause to be implemented, all necessary measures under
said plan, in accordance with its terms and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
3. 
If any Project activity (including any Subproject) involves the presence of
Indigenous and/or Quilombola Peoples, the Borrower shall: (a) prior to carrying
out any such Project activity (including any Subproject), prepare an indigenous
peoples development plan in accordance with the IQPPF, and disclose said plan in
accordance with the procedures set forth in the IQPPF; and (b) thereafter
implement, or cause to be implemented, all necessary measures under said plan, in
accordance with its terms and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
4. 
The following activities shall not be eligible to be carried out under and/or to be
funded under the Project:
(a) 
any activities that would lead to conversion or degradation of critical
natural habitats or their supporting areas;
- 11 
(b) 
any activities that would lead to conversion or degradation of critical forest
areas, related critical natural habitats, clearing of forests or forest
ecosystems; and
(c) 
the construction of any Dams that are 10 meters or more in height, all as
further described in the Operation Manual.
5. 
If any activity financed by the Project includes the construction of a Dam that is
less than 10 meters in height and/or substantial remedial work of an existing Dam
of 10 meters or more in height, the Borrower shall, prior to carrying out any said
Project activity, appoint qualified engineers, with qualifications, experience and
terms of reference acceptable to the World Bank, to design and supervise said
activity and/or remedial works.
6. 
The Borrower shall ensure, and/or cause the CA, PO, AESA, SEIRHMACT,
and/or CINEP to ensure, that the terms of reference for any consultancy in respect
of any Project activity shall be satisfactory to the Bank following its review thereof
and, to that end, such terms of reference shall duly incorporate the requirements of
the applicable Bank Safeguards Policies, as applied to the advice conveyed through
such technical assistance.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of the performance indicators set forth in the
Operational Manual. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar
semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 30 days after the end of
the period covered by such report.
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1 .
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of
each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering
the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. 
Each audit of the
- 12-
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. 
All goods, works and Non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2. 
Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and Non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consulting
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and Non-
consulting services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under
which such methods may be used.
- 13 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding (including the method known as "pregdo
eletr6nico", as provided in the Guarantor's Law No. 10520, of July 17,
2002, under an e-procurement system approved by the Bank), subject to
the following additional procedure, namely, that the bidding documents
shall be acceptable to the Bank
(b) Shopping
(c) Direct Contracting
(d) Framework Agreements
(e) Community Participation in Procurement procedures, as set forth in the
Operational Manual
(f) Commercial Practices which have been acceptable to the Bank
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based
Selection, which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Method
(a) Selection based on Consultant's Qualifications
(b) Quality-based Selection
(c) Least Cost Selection
(d) Fixed Budget Selection
(e) Procedures set forth in Section V of the Consultants Guidelines for the
Selection of Individual Consultants
(f) Single Source Selection of consulting firms
(g) Single Source Selection of Individual Consultants set forth in paragraph 5.6
of the Consultant Guidelines
(h) Commercial Practices which have been found acceptable to the Bank
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
- 14 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article Il of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
"Disbursement Guidelines for Investment Project Financing" dated February
2017, as revised from time to time by the World Bank and as made applicable to
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions),, to finance Eligible Expenditures as
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Category 
Allocated 
to be financed
(US Dollars) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Works, goods, Non-
consulting services,
consultant's Services,
Training and Operating 
31,641,100 
100%
Costs under the Project,
excluding Categories (2)
and (3)
(2) Works, goods, Non-
consulting services, and 
100%
consultant's Services, 
5,172,792 
of the relevant Matching
under Agro-Climatic 
Grant
Vulnerability Reduction
Subprojects
(3) Works, goods, Non-
consulting services, and 
100%
consultant's services 
13,061,108 
of the relevant Matching
under Productive 
Grant
Alliances Subprojects
- 15 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Category 
Allocated 
to be financed
(US Dollars) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of the Loan
(4) Front-end Fee 
125,000 
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(5) Premium for Interest 
Amount payable pursuant to
0 
Section 2.09 (c) of the Loan
Rate Caps and CollarsAremn
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 
50,000,000
3. 
For the purposes of this table:
(a) 
the term "Operating Costs" means the reasonable incremental operational
costs (which would not have been incurred absent the Project), related to
Project technical and administrative management, monitoring and
supervision required under the Project, including inter alia, administrative
and operational support staff, office equipment, supplies, travel costs
(including accommodations, transportation costs and per diem), printing
services, communication costs, utilities, maintenance of office equipment
and facilities, vehicle operation and maintenance costs, and logistics
services; and
(b) 
the term "Training" means expenditures (other than those for consultants'
services) incurred by the Borrower in connection with the carrying out of
training, seminars, and workshops, including the reasonable travel costs
(e.g. accommodations, transportation costs and per diem) of trainees and
trainers (if applicable), course enrollment fees, catering, rental of training
facilities and equipment, logistics and printing services, as well as training
materials and equipment needed under the Project.
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up
to an aggregate amount not to exceed two million dollars ($2,000,000) equivalent
may be made for payments made within one year prior to this date, for Eligible
Expenditures.
- 16-
2. 
The Closing Date is December 15, 2023. The Bank shall only grant an extension
of the Closing Date after the Guarantor's Ministry of Finance has informed the
Bank that it agrees with such extension.
-17-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning May 15, 2023 
4%
through May 15, 2035
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this
Schedule.
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
- 18-
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
- 19 
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
"AESA" means Ag ncia Executiva de Gestdo das Aguas da Paraiba, the
Borrower's Executive Agency for Water Management, created by Law No. 7.779,
dated July 7, 2005, and under the administrative jurisdiction of SEIRHMACT or
any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
2. 
"Agro-Climatic 
Risk 
Information 
System" means Sistema Estadual de
Informaq5es sobre Riscos Agrohidroclimaticos (SEIRA), an online interactive
database that provides access to hydrological and agro-climatic information aimed
at supporting decision making and increased resilience to climate related risks.
3. 
"Agro-Climatic 
Vulnerability 
Reduction 
Subproject" means any 
eligible
investment aimed at improving resilience of farmers and their livelihoods to
climate related risk, including, inter alia: (i) water supply for agricultural
production; (ii) agriculture diversification and natural resources management; (iii)
food security and nutritional improvement; and (iv) improvement of rural roads
access, all identified and prioritized by the CAs with support of Municipal
Councils and approved by the Borrower in accordance with relevant provisions of
the Operational Manual and to be carried out by a CA.
4. 
"Annual Operating Plan" means each plan referred to in Section I.A.2 of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
5. 
"Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines" means the "Guidelines 
on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
6. 
"Bank Safeguards Policies" means the Bank's operational policies and procedures
set forth in the Bank's Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04, 4.09, 4.10,
4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37, 7.50 and 7.60.
7. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
8. 
"CINEP" means Companhia de Desenvolvimento da Paraiba, the Borrower's
Development Company, created by the Borrower's law No. 6.037, dated July 2,
1996 or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
9. 
"Community Association" or "CA" means any civil association formed by
members of a community (associaqdo civil), or any private association, all duly
established in the Borrower's territory in accordance with the Guarantor's laws,
including communities of Indigenous and Quilombola Peoples, and which meets
-20-
the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined) for
participating in the Project.
10. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 and revised July 2014.
11. 
"COOPERAR" means Projeto Cooperar do Estado da Paraiba, the unit referred
to in Section I.A. 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, linked to SEAFDS and
established by the Borrower's Law No. 10,676, dated September 11, 1997 and
amended by Decree No. 15.723, dated January 3, 2015, or any successor thereto
acceptable to the Bank.
12. 
"Dam" means any dam, underground water retention dam, local silt retention dam,
farm pond and/or low embankment tank.
13. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the
Borrower's integrated environmental and social impact assessment dated March
28, 2016, acceptable to the Bank, published and made available to the public on
the website http://www.cooperar.pb.gov.br, which contains the environmental
protection measures in respect of the Project, including: (i) measures for chance
findings of physical cultural resources; (ii) protection of natural habitats; (iii)
guidelines for the identification of existing environmental conditions and potential
direct and indirect environmental impacts resulting from the carrying out of the
Project (including Subprojects); (iv) guidelines for the carrying out of
environmental assessments and the preparation of environmental and social
management plans, when applicable; (v) the recommendation of mitigation
measures for each negative impact identified; (vi) measures for enhancing each
identified positive impact; (vii) guidance and procedures for the use of pesticides
and other chemicals; (viii) guidance and procedures for interventions involving
existing Dams and the construction of farm ponds; (ix) guidance and procedures
for the restoration of native forests and sustainable management of non-timber
forest resources; and (x) the Environmental and Social Manual for Civil Works
(containing complementary guidance and procedures for the carrying out and
monitoring of civil works, including Subprojects); as the same may be amended,
supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time with the prior written
agreement of the Bank.
14. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
15. 
"Indigenous and Quilombola Peoples Planning Framework" or "IQPPF" means
the Borrower's framework dated March 28, 2016, acceptable to the Bank,
published 
and 
available 
to 
the 
public 
on 
the 
website
-21 
http://www.cooperar.pb.gov.br, detailing measures to mitigate any adverse impact
on Indigenous and Quilombola Peoples as a result of any activity carried out under
the Project (including Subprojects) and to ensure that they benefit from the Project,
including procedures for the preparation and implementation of any pertinent
plans, as such framework may be amended from time to time with the prior
agreement of the Bank.
16. 
"Involuntary Resettlement Policy Framework" or "IRPF" means the Borrower's
framework dated March 28, 2016, acceptable to the Bank, published and available
to the public on the website http://www.cooperar.pb.gov.br, outlining general
implementation procedures, mitigation measures and monitoring procedures for
Resettlement under the Project, including the procedures for the preparation and
implementation of resettlement action plans, as such framework may be amended
from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank.
17. 
"Matching Grant" means a grant made out of the proceeds of the Loan to a selected
PO (for Productive Alliance Subprojects) or a selected CA (for Agro-Climatic
Vulnerability Reduction Subprojects), for the partial financing of the cost of the
pertinent Subproject, subject to the specific terms and conditions set forth in the
Operational Manual and in the relevant Subproject Agreement.
18. 
"Municipal Council" means a Conselho Municipais de Desenvolvimento Rural
Sustentdvel or any other entity supporting Project follow-up in the Borrower's
territory at the municipal level, and operating in accordance with the Operational
Manual.
19. 
"Non-consulting services" means surveys and other services of non-intellectual
and non-advisory nature that can be procured on the basis of performance or
measurable physical outputs.
20. 
"Operational Manual" means the Borrower's manual referred to in Section I.B. I
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time
with the agreement of the Bank.
21. 
"Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 and revised July 2014.
22. 
"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
May 20, 2016 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
23. 
"Producer Organization" or "PO" means any producer-based organization vested
with legal personality and/or any group of rural citizens organized into a legally
-22-
established private assotiation, which, upon meeting the criteria set forth in the
Operational Manual, is eligible to receive a Matching Grant, for the carrying out
of a Productive Alliance Subproject.
24. 
"Productive Alliance" means any alliance between a Producer Organization and a
buyer, which specifies product characteristics, quantity to be produced/bought,
delivery modalities and price determination criteria, and which forms the basis for
the formulation of a Productive Alliance Subproject.
25. 
"Productive Alliance Subproject" means any eligible productive and market-
oriented investment aimed at supporting POs to comply with market requirements,
including, inter alia: 
(i) minor on-farm infrastructure; (ii) soil and water
conservation measures; (iii) provision and utilization of inputs, equipment and
tools; (iv) technical assistance services; and (v) off-farm infrastructure for storage,
processing and packaging, all identified and prioritized by PO and buyers in the
relevant Productive Alliance business plan, and approved by the Borrower in
accordance with relevant provisions of the Operational Manual and to be carried
out by a PO.
26. 
"Quilombola Peoples" means any Afro-Brazilian descendent of ex-slaves living in
the Borrower's territory which maintain distinct subcultural traditions and have
received recognition, as such, by the Guarantor's Ministry of Culture's Fundagio
Cultural Palmares.
27. 
"Resettlement" means the impact of: (i) an involuntary taking of land under the
Project, which taking causes affected persons to have their: (a) income source or
means of livelihood adversely affected (whether or not the affected persons must
move to another location); or (b) right, title or interest in any house, land (including
premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset
acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (c) access to productive
assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (d) business, occupation,
work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily or
permanently; or (ii) an involuntary restriction of access to natural resources in
legally designated parks and protected areas (including reserves) which causes an
adverse impact on the livelihoods of the affected persons.
28. 
"Safeguard Documents" means the ESMF, the IQPPF and the IRPF (including any
environmental and social management plan, indigenous peoples plan and
resettlement action plan), as the same may be amended, supplemented or otherwise
modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
29. 
"SEAFDS" means Secretaria da Agricultura Familiar e do Desenvolvimento do
Semidrido, the Borrower's Secretariat of Family Agriculture and Development of
the Semiarid, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
-23-
30. 
"SEIRHMACT" means Secretaria de Estado da Infraestrutura, dos Recursos
Hidricos, Meio Ambiente e Ciencia e Tecnologia, the Borrower's Secretariat of
Infrastructure, Water Resources, Environment and Science and Technology, or any
successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.
31. 
"Subproject" means any Agro-Climatic Vulnerability Reduction Subproject and/or
any Productive Alliance Subproject.
32. 
"Subproject Agreement" means each agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and a PO (for Productive Alliance Subprojects) or a CA (for Agro-
Climatic Vulnerability Reduction Subprojects), as the case may be, as specified in
Section I.E.(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
33. 
"Technical Cooperation Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in
Section I.D.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.
2. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the "Front-end Fee").
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
"Commitment Charge"). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. 
The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date."
3. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
4. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of "Commitment Charge", and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
-24-
"19. 
"Commitment Charge" means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.0 1(b)."
5. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).
6. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term "Loan Payment" is modified to read as follows:
"68. 
"Loan Payment" means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any
surcharge, any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early
termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any
premium payable upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower."
7. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting the word "is" and inserting
the words "and Commitment Charge are" after the word "interest".
- 25 
