OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTs
LOAN NUMBER 8967-PH
Loan Agreement
(Additional Financing for the Social Welfare Development and Reform Project II)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between REPUBLIC OF THE
PHILIPPINES ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank").
WHEREAS (A) under an agreement, dated April 29, 2016, between the Borrower
and the Bank ("Original Loan Agreement"), the Bank agreed to extend to the Borrower a
loan in an amount of four hundred and fifty million Dollars ($450,000,000) ("Original
Loan") to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to the Original Loan
Agreement ("Original Project"); and
(B) the Borrower has requested the Bank to provide additional financing to
continue certain activities started under the Original Project; and the Bank has agreed to
extend such additional financial assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
set forth in this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, the Original Loan
Agreement or in the Appendix to this Agreement. In case of inconsistency between
the definitions provided in the Original Loan Agreement and this Agreement, the
provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
ARTICLE II- LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of three hundred million
Dollars ($300,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
-2-
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may
apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through its Department of Social
Welfare and Development ("DSWD") in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that the
Legal Framework (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) has been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of the Borrower to carry out the Project or to perform any of
its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE V -
TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Secretary of Finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Department of Finance
Department of Finance Building
Bangko Sentral Complex
Roxas Blvd. comer Pablo Ocampo Sr. Street
Manila, Philippines
Facsimile:
(63-2) 523-9216
6.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank's address
is:
-3-
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
E-mail:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
PhilippineCMU(a)worldbank.org
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
REPUBLIC OF PHILIPPINES
Byy_
Authorized Representative
4 Name: 
CAPLOJS 0. Okil"bW617-
Title: JNA-1MXY OF F1/$140*
Date: 
NOV " 8 2019
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
t1hM A. 
RKtd(
Title: 
CpWAXY
Date: 
NOV. ag, J0/9
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to support the conditional cash transfer program of
DSWD to improve the use of health and education services by poor children.
The Project consists of: (A) the support to Pantawid Pamilya through provision by
the Borrower of Conditional Cash Transfer Grants ("CCT Grants") under the Pantawid
Pamilya to CCT Beneficiaries in order to enable them to access health and/or education
services under the terms and conditions set out in the Pantawid Pamilya Operations
Manual; and (B) the provision of technical and analytical support for strengthening of CCT
implementation and monitoring and evaluation, through (i) improvement of business
processes; (ii) upgrading the Project's information systems; (iii) strengthening capacity
monitoring, evaluation, and data analysis; (iv) enhancing payment and grievance redress
system; (v) streamlining and improving family development sessions; (vi) improving
compliance verification and beneficiary data systems; and (vii) enhancing the spot checks
and impact evaluation for the Project.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section 1. 
Implementation Arran2ements
A. 
Implementation Provisions
1. 
Sections I.A (Institutional Arrangements) and I.B (Eligibility Criteria, Terms and
Conditions for Conditional Cash Transfer Grants) of Schedule 2 to the Original
Loan Agreement are hereby incorporated by reference in this Part A, and shall
apply, mutatis mutandis, to this Agreement, and the Borrower, through DSWD,
hereby undertakes to comply with the provisions thereof to the same extent as if
such provisions had been set out in full in this Agreement, except that the date
-June 30, 2019" in paragraph 5 of Section L.A of Schedule 2 to the Original Loan
Agreement shall be read as "June 30, 2021".
2. 
For greater clarity and the avoidance of doubt, in view of the above incorporation
of Section 1. A of Schedule 2 to the Original Loan Agreement in this Agreement,
if the Original Loan Agreement terminates prior to the termination of this
Agreement, such termination shall have no effect for purposes of this Agreement,
and the provisions of the Original Loan Agreement incorporated in this Agreement
pursuant to Section I. A. I above shall continue in full force and effect between
the Borrower and the Bank for purposes of this Agreement following and
notwithstanding such termination of the Original Loan Agreement.
B. 
Safeguards.
1. 
The Borrower, through DSWD, shall ensure that the Project is carried out with due
regard to appropriate health, safety, social, and environmental practices and
standards, and in accordance with the Safeguards Instruments.
2. 
For each activity under the Project for which the IPPF provides for the preparation
of an Indigenous Peoples' Plan, the Borrower, through DSWD, shall: (a) prior to
the carrying out of any said activity, prepare and/or cause to be prepared and
furnish to the Bank, an Indigenous Peoples' Plan, in accordance with the IPPF and
satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) thereafter, adopt and implement said Indigenous
Peoples' Plan in accordance with its terms and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower, through DSWD, shall maintain and publicize the availability of a
grievance mechanism, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, to hear and
determine fairly and in good faith all complaints raised in relation to the Project,
and take all measures necessary to implement the determinations made by such
mechanism in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
-7-
4. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower shall, through
DSWD, ensure that none of the provisions of the Safeguard Instruments is
abrogated, amended, repealed, suspended or waived. 
In case of any
inconsistencies between the provisions of any of the Safeguard Instruments and
the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
5. 
Without limitation upon its other reporting obligations under this Agreement, the
Borrower, through DSWD, 
shall take all measures necessary on its part to
regularly collect, compile, and submit to the Bank, as part of the Project Reports,
and promptly in a separate report whenever the Bank may require, information on
the status of compliance with the Safeguards Instruments, all such reports in form
and substance acceptable to the Bank, setting out, inter alia:
(i) 
the status of implementation of the Safeguards Instruments;
(ii) 
conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the
implementation of the Safeguards Instruments; and
(iii) 
corrective and preventive measures taken or required to be taken to address
such conditions.
Section II. 
Project Monitorin2 Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower, through DSWD, shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not
later than sixty (60) days after the end of each calendar year, covering the calendar
year.
B. 
Mid-term Review
The Borrower, through DSWD shall: (a) on or about the date eighteen (18) months
after the Effective Date, prepare and furnish to the Bank a mid-term report, in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, documenting progress achieved in the
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of such report; and
(b) review with the Bank such mid-term report, on or about the date sixty (60) days
after its submission.
Section III. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and
in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the
Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible
-8-
Expenditures; and (b) pay the Front-end Fee; in the amount allocated and, if
applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category of the following
table:
Percentage of
Amount of the Loan 
Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive Taxes)
(1) 
Conditional 
Cash 
299,250,000 
100% of amounts disbursed
Transfer Grants under the 
under each CCT Grant
Project
(2) Front-end Fee 
750,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (bj of the
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
300,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the Signature Date.
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2022.
-9-
SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
("Installment Share").
Level Principal Repayments
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning November 15, 2029 
3.33%
through November 15, 2043
On May 15, 2044 
3.43%
- 10 
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
2. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
3. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project
Financing", dated December 14, 2018.
4. 
-Legal Framework" means the framework of the Borrower establishing the
Pantawid Pamilya and comprising, among others, of the following: (a) the
Republic Act Number 11310 dated April 17, 2019 approved by the Borrower's
President institutionalizing the Pantawid Pamilyang Pilipino Program (4Ps), and
(b) Administrative Order No. 1, Series of 2019 (Management Reorganization of
the DSWD Central Office), for Defining the Institutional Arrangements for the
Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation of the Pantawid Pamilyang Pilipino
Program (4Ps), as may be revised from time to time.
5. 
"Safeguard Instruments" means collectively, the Indigenous People's Policy
Framework, and any indigenous peoples plan prepared thereunder, and "Safeguard
Instrument" means any of such Safeguards Instruments.
6. 
"Safeguards Policies" means, the Operational Policies (OPs) and Bank Procedures
(BPs) of the Bank, namely OP/BP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment), OP/BP 4.04
(Natural Habitats), OP/BP 4.09 (Pest Management), OP/BP 4.10 (Indigenous
Peoples), OP/BP 4.11 (Physical Cultural Resources), OP/BP 4.12 (Involuntary
Resettlement), OP/BP 4.36 (Forests), and OP/BP 4.37 (Safety of Dams); they can
be found at https://policies.worldbank.org.
7. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the
date of the Loan Agreement" in the General Conditions.
