OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
=＝ ニニ ニニニ ニニ ニニ にニ ニニニ ニニ ニ ニ ニ ニ ニ ニ ニ
LOAN NUMBER 9003-MN
Loan Agreement
(Economic Management Support operation Second Development Policy Loan)
between
MONGOLIA
and
1NTERNAT10NALBANKF0RREC0NSTRUCTI0N
ANDDEVELOPMENT
■国■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■園■■■■□■■■■■■■■■
園■ー …
■―
国…
園国■国■■■■■ー ■■■国■■■■■■■■ ■ 国国■国国国■■ ■■■ ―
園園国■■■ー ■ー ―
…
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 9003-MN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between MONGOLIA ("Borrower") and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank7) for the
purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this
Agreement).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to assist in financing of the
Program in the amount of fifty-eight million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
58,100,000), pursuant to a financing agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and
the Association ("Financing Agreement"); and
(B) the Bank has decided to provide the financing provided under this Agreement and the
Financing Agreement, on the basis, inter alia, of- (i) the actions which the Borrower has already
taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule I to this Agreement; and
(ii) the Borrower's maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework.
NOW THEREFORE, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings 'ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in this Agreement
(including the Preamble and Appendix hereto).
ARTICLE 11 -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of twenty million Dollars
($20,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion ("Loan").
2.02. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.03 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
-2-
2.04. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
2.07. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.05 of the General Conditions, the
Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of
this Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this
end, and further to Section 5.05 of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework and the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
(b) 
without limitation upon paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall promptly
inform the Bank of any situation that would have the effect of materially reversing
the objectives of the Program or any action taken under the Program including any
action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension is that a situation has arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) 
the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out
the Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework;
(b) 
the Bank has received a copy of a duly executed contract between BOM and an
independent and external auditor under terms of reference and with qualifications
acceptable to the Bank for carrying out forensic audit of the recapitalization
process of selected commercial banks operating in the territory of the Borrower;
and
-3-
(c) 
the Financing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all conditions
precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
under it (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement) have been fulfilled.
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the Signature
Date.
5.03. 
For purposes of Section 9.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement (other than those providing for payment
obligations) shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister at the time responsible for finance.
6.02. 
For purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower's address is:
Ministry of Finance
Government Building II
S. Danzan Street 5/1 D
Ulaanbaatar 15160
Mongolia
and
(b) the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile:
976-11-320247
6.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
MONGOLIA
By
Auth 
ed Reprefntative
Name: 
Alf 
,e/acike ex-Ime/
Title: 
A 
/4ijC-le-( 
' 
Xaa &ee-
Date: 
PP0
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
AuthoN9 Representative
Name: 
n ffai 
NKA LV
Title: 
r41/ 
of
Date:~V~
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I. 
Actions under the Pro2ram
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
A. 
Restoring Debt Sustainability
1. 
The Borrower has publicly disclosed the comprehensive external special review on
DBM's operations from 2012 to 2017, as evidenced through the Financial Diagnostic
of the DBM dated December 4, 2018, accessible at the official website of DBM visited
on June 17, 2019.
2. 
The Borrower has restructured the Housing Mortgage Program to support affordable
housing in a more cost-effective way, and with a time-bound plan for BOM to fully
exit the Housing Mortgage Program, as evidenced through the Joint Order Number
285/A-334 
issued by Governor of BOM and its Minister of Finance on
December 20, 2018.
3. 
The Borrower has publicly disclosed the independent special external review of
BOM's quasi-fiscal operations, including the Housing Mortgage Program, Price
Stabilization Program, and financial support to companies, as evidenced through the
special review of quasi-fiscal operations of the BOM on November 15, 2018 accessible
at the official website of BOM visited on June 17, 2019.
4. 
The Borrower has established a framework to evaluate the tax expenditure system in
terms of costs and benefits to reduce ineffective tax incentives and exemptions, starting
with the 2020 budget, as evidenced through the Ministerial Order Number 99 issued
by its Minister of Finance on May 1, 2019.
5. 
The Borrower has initiated the reduction of costs for on-going and new investment
projects in the state budget, as evidenced through the Ministerial Order Number 295
issued by its Minister of Finance dated December 25, 2018, approving regulations and
methodologies for appraisal, prioritization, and selection of projects and activities
financed from the state budget.
6. 
The Borrower has improved the legal, governance, and monitoring frameworks of the
Government Special Funds, as evidenced through the adoption of the Cabinet
Resolution Number 87 issued by the Cabinet on February 27, 2019.
-6-
B. 
Strengthening the Social Protection System
7. 
The Borrower has increased the 2019 budget allocation for the Food Stamp Program
and other poverty targeted programs, as evidenced through the Ministerial Order
Number 309 on the 2019 budget monthly plan issued by its Minister of Finance on
December 28, 2018.
C. 
Supporting Economic Competitiveness through Structural Reforms
8. 
The Borrower has submitted a revised Permit Law to the Parliament, listing all licenses
and permits granted by public administration and proposing a reduction of selected
licenses and permits to be granted, as evidenced through the summary report
dated April 30, 2019 accompanying with the draft Permit Law jointly signed by its
Cabinet Secretariat Minister and its Minister of Justice.
9. 
The Borrower has approved a package of regulations, ordinances, and guidelines to
operationalize the Livestock and Animal Health Law by providing the modalities
for: the animal disease free zone; international quarantine procedures; major
trans-boundary animal diseases control strategic plans; and herders' obligations, as
evidenced through: (a) the Ministerial Order A-40 issued by its Minister of Food,
Agriculture and Light Industry dated February 20, 2019 enclosed with an Appendix on
determination and declaration of disease free status; (b) Government Resolution
Number 266 issued by the Government dated August 22, 2018 enclosed with
Attachment 2 on the activities to be implemented during the quarantine and restriction
regime; and (c) the Order A/17 issued by its Director of General Authority for
Veterinary Services on April 24, 2018 enclosed with an Appendix 
1 providing
guidelines on veterinary and quarantine for transboundary animal disease free
compartment.
10. 
The Borrower has established an institutional framework for implementation of
Trade Facilitation Agreement ("TFA"), including: a time-bound action plan for TFA
implementation; an inter-agency coordination mechanism for the TFA; and a trade
information portal consisting of all regulations required for trade activities, as
evidenced through: (a) the Strategic Action Plan for the period of 2018-2022 adopted
by the National Committee on Trade Facilitation on October 4, 2018; (b) the decision
made by the National Committee on Trade Facilitation at the fourth meeting session
on January 10, 2019; and (c) the Joint Order Number A/27/28 issued by its Minister of
Foreign Affairs and Minister of Finance on March 29, 2019.
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by
notice to the Borrower.
-7-
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. 
The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the
Front-end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the Borrower may
make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this
end is set out in the table below:
Amount of the Loan Allocated
Allocations 
(expressed in USD)
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 
19,950,000
(2) Front-end Fee 
50,000
(3) Amount due pursuant to Section 4.05 (c) 
0
of the General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
20,000,000
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.
1. 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is
satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with the adequacy
of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
D. 
Deposit of Loan Amounts.
1. 
The Borrower, within thirty (30) days after the withdrawal of the Loan from the Loan
Account, shall report to the Bank: (a) the exact sum received into the account referred to
in Section 2.03 (a) of the General Conditions; (b) the details of the account to which the
Mongolian Tugrik equivalent of the Loan proceeds will be credited; (c) the record that an
equivalent amount has been accounted for in the Borrower's budget management
systems; and (d) the statement of receipts and disbursement of the account referred to in
Section 2.03 (a) of the General Conditions.
E. 
Closing Date. The Closing Date is July 23, 2020.
-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date ("Installment Share").
Level Principal Repayments
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
On each April 15 and October 15
Beginning October 15, 2024 
2%
through April 15, 2049
-9-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"BOM" means the Borrower's Bank of Mongolia; established and operating pursuant to
the Borrower's Law on Central Bank dated September 3, 1996, or any successor thereto.
2. 
"Cabinet Resolution" means a resolution of the Borrower's cabinet of ministers.
3. 
"Cabinet Secretariat" means the secretariat of the Borrower's cabinet of ministers, or any
successor thereto.
4. 
"DBM" means the Borrower's development bank established and operating pursuant to the
Law on Development Bank dated February 10, 2011, or any successor thereto.
5. 
"Food Stamp Program" means the Borrower's food stamp program established and
operating pursuant to the Social Welfare Law, which aims to provide nutrition assistance
to the poorest households.
6. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Development Policy Financing", dated
December 14, 2018.
7. 
"Government Special Funds" means the Borrower's state budget financed special funds
established and operating with the purpose of implementing particular functions and
objectives of the Government pursuant to the Law on Government Special Funds.
8. 
"Housing Mortgage Program" means the Borrower's program of such name established
and operating pursuant to Joint Decree No. A-2/06, dated January 9, 2013 issued by the
Governor of the BOM and the Borrower's Minister of Construction and Urban
Development, which aims to provide subsidized loans to mortgage borrowers.
9. 
"Law on Government Special Funds" means the Borrower's law of such name issued by
the Borrower's Parliament on June 29, 2006, as amended from time to time.
10. 
"Livestock and Animal Health Law" means the Borrower's law of such name issued by
the Borrower's Parliament on December 8, 2017, as amended from time to time.
11. 
"Mongolian Tugrik" means the lawful currency of the Borrower.
-10-
12. 
"Parliament" means the Borrower's legislative branch of government, or any successor
thereto.
13. 
"Program" means: the program of objectives, policies, and actions set forth or referred to
in the letter dated June 17, 2019 from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in
support of the Program during its execution and comprising actions taken, including those
set forth in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and actions to be taken consistent
with the program's objectives.
14. 
"Price Stabilization Program" means the Borrower's program of such name established
and operating pursuant to a memorandum of understanding on joint implementation of
medium-term program to stabilize prices of key commodities and products jointly signed
by the Government of Mongolia and BOM in October 2012, which aims to provides
low-cost funding to corporations whose price-setting behavior has a significant impact on
the consumer price index.
15. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the date of the Loan
Agreement" in the General Conditions.
16. 
"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category
entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
17. 
"Social Welfare Law" means the Borrower's law of such name dated January 19, 2012, as
amended from time to time.
18. 
"Trade Facilitation Agreement" or "TFA" means the trade facilitation agreement
concluded at the World Trade Organization by all of its members, including the Borrower
which entered into force on February 22, 2017.
