OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8927-CN
Loan Agreement
(Guizhou Aged Care System Development Program)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
CHINA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of three hundred five million seven
hundred thousand Euro (E305,700,000), as such amount may be converted from time to
time through a Currency Conversion ("Loan"), to assist in financing the program described
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Program").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited
by the Bank into an account specified by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread; or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit (as
said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of this Section), the Borrower
shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of one half of one percent (0.5%) per annum
of the Allocated Excess Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this
Section) for each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if any) shall
be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during which the Total
Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit, the product of: (A) the total
amount of said excess; and (B) the ratio of all (or, if the Bank so determines, a
portion) of the Loan to the aggregate amount of all (or the equivalent portions) of
the loans made by the Bank to the Borrower and to other borrowers guaranteed by
the Borrower that are also subject to an exposure surcharge, as said excess and
ratio are reasonably determined from time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the Bank's financial
exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded, would subject the Loan to the
Exposure Surcharge, as determined from time to time by the Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total financial exposure to
the Borrower, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
ARTICLE III -
PROGRAM
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Program. To this end, the
Borrower shall cause the Program to be carried out by the Program Implementing Entity
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the Program
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness is that the Co-financing Agreement has been
executed and delivered and all conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of
the Borrower to make withdrawals under it (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement)
have been fulfilled.
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower's address is:
-2-
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Xicheng District
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China; and
(b) the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile:
(86-10) 6855-2077
5.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile:
1-202-477-6391
-3 
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By:
Authorized Representative
Name:
Title: 
/2= 
,, 
7 
,L
Date: 
~~i6
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By:
Au 
rized Representative
Name: 
1 
Sa.
Title: 
,9
Date:
-4-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Description
The objective of the Program is to increase equitable access to a basic package of aged care
services and to strengthen the quality of services and the efficiency of the aged care system.
The Program consists of the following activities:
A. 
Expanding Coverage of Basic Aged Care Services for the Elderly
1. 
Developing a needs assessment toolkit for measuring, inter alia, the functional limitations
of the elderly and carrying out needs assessments at the district/county level.
2. 
Defining the basic package of aged care services and level of subsidy for the basic package.
3. 
Defining the eligibility criteria for the elderly accessing the basic package of aged care
services based on individual functional needs and income/assets test.
4. 
Delivering the basic package of aged care services in urban and rural areas covering three
tiers of home- and community-based care, and institutional care, with an emphasis on
home- and community-based care.
B. 
Enhancing Quality of Aged Care Services for the Elderly
1. 
Improving and implementing aged care quality standards for facilities and services.
2. 
Introducing case management and promoting coordination of aged care and health care
services at the home, community, and institutional levels.
3. 
Enhancing and expanding aged care skills by providing, inter alia: (a) training to wage
and family caregivers, professionals, managers, and government officials; (b) job subsidies
to wage caregivers; and (c) financial subsidies and respite services to family caregivers.
4. 
Establishing a provincial cloud platform for service delivery, quality enhancement, and
public financial management.
-5-
C. 
Strengthening Efficiency of Aged Care Financing for the Elderly
1. 
Enhancing the planning and utilization of public financial resources in the aged care sector
by introducing a zero-based budget reform.
2. 
Refining the decision-making process for new infrastructure investment activities in the
aged care sector to comply with the provincial investment management guidelines.
3. 
Enhancing the service delivery and management of public aged care facilities, through the
promotion of institutional reforms, and enabling the participation of private providers and
operators in the aged care sector.
4. 
Establishing a monitoring and evaluation system, including setting up a provincial
monitoring and evaluation framework, collecting quality data and carrying out evaluations.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Program Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arran2ements
A. 
Financing Arrangements
1. 
For the purposes of carrying out of the Program, the Borrower shall make available the
proceeds of the Loan to the Program Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank, including the following principal terms:
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Euro or any other Currency as the
Loan may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion of the
value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn (such principal amount
determined on the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account).
(b) 
The principal amount so made available (including an amount equal to the fee paid
pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement) shall be recovered over a period of
thirty-four (34) years, inclusive of a grace period of six (6) years.
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest applicable from time to time
to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.05 of this Agreement.
(d) 
A Commitment Charge shall be charged equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Program Implementing Entity to: (a) manage, operate,
monitor, transfer and reconcile the proceeds of the Loan made available to it pursuant to
paragraph 1 above in accordance with arrangements and procedures acceptable to the
Bank; (b) take all required actions, including provision of timely consents and approvals
as may be necessary, to facilitate the utilization of said Loan proceeds and the
implementation of the Program and, to enable the Program Implementing Entity to comply
with its undertakings under the Program Agreement; and (c) maintain all relevant records
and documents related to the Loan and the Program and provide promptly such documents
and records, including all other information related to the Loan and the Program, as may
be requested by the Borrower or the Bank from time to time.
-7-
B. 
Program Action Plan
The Borrower shall take, and shall cause the Program Implementing Entity to take, all
measures necessary to comply with, or all measures necessary to enable the Program
Implementing Entity to comply with the provisions of Section I.B.2 of the Schedule to the
Program Agreement.
Section II. 
Excluded Activities
The Borrower shall ensure that the Program excludes any activities which:
A. 
in the opinion of the Bank, are likely to have significant adverse impacts that are sensitive,
diverse, or unprecedented on the environment and/or affected people; or
B. 
involve the procurement of: (1) works, estimated to cost $75 million equivalent
or more per contract; (2) goods, estimated to cost $50 million equivalent or more per
contract; (3) non-consulting services, estimated to cost $50 million equivalent or more
per contract; or (4) consulting services, estimated to cost $20 million equivalent or more
per contract.
Section III. 
Pro2ram Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
The Borrower shall cause the Program Implementing Entity to furnish to the Bank each
Program Report not later than sixty (60) days after the end of each calendar semester,
covering the calendar semester.
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in
accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) pay the Front-end Fee; (b) pay interest and
Commitment Charge; (c) pay each Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar premium; and
(d) finance Program Expenditures, on the basis of the results ("Disbursement Linked
Results" or "DLRs") achieved by the Program Implementing Entity, as measured against
specific indicators ("Disbursement Linked Indicators" or "DLIs"); all as set forth in the
table in paragraph 2 of this Part A.
2. 
The following table specifies each category of withdrawal of the proceeds of the Loan
(including the Disbursement Linked Indicators as applicable) ("Category"), the
-8-
Disbursement Linked Results for each Category (as applicable), and the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category:
Category 
Disbursement Linked 
Amount of the 
Disbursement
(including Disbursement 
Result (as applicable) 
Loan 
Calculation
Linked Indicator as 
Allocated 
Formula (as
applicable) 
(expressed in 
applicable)
EUR)
(1) DLI #1: Development 
DLR #1.1: DOCA has 
5,732,000 
n/a
of the Needs Assessment 
developed the Needs
Toolkit and number of 
Assessment Toolkit
Program Districts/
Program Counties where 
DLR #1.2: 
22,928,000 
EUR 477,666.67
Implementation of the 
Implementation of the 
per each Program
Needs Assessment Toolkit 
Needs Assessment 
District/ Program
has occurred 
Toolkit has occurred in 
County
48 Program Districts/
Program Counties
(2) DLI #2: Development 
DLR #2.1: DOCA has 
5,732,000 
n/a
of the Basic Package of 
developed the Basic
Aged Care Services and 
Package of Aged Care
number of Program 
Services
Districts/ Program
Counties where 
DLR #2.2: 
22,928,000 
EUR 477,666.67
Implementation of the 
Implementation of the 
per each Program
Basic Package of Aged 
Basic Package of Aged 
District/ Program
Care Services has 
Care Services has 
County
occurred 
occurred in 48 Program
Districts/Program
Counties
(3) DLI #3: Number of DLR #3: 402,000 
57,320,000 
EUR 142.59 per
Eligible Elderly receiving 
Eligible Elderly 
each Eligible
the Basic Package of Aged 
receiving the Basic 
Elderly
Care Services 
Package of Aged Care
Services
(4) DLI #4: Development 
DLR #4.1: DOCA has 
17,196,000 
n/a
of the Aged Care Quality 
developed the Aged
Standards and number of 
Care Quality Standards
Aged Care Facilities
complying with the Aged
Care Quality Standards
-9-
DLR #4.2: 1,500 Aged 
40,124,000 
EUR 26,749.34
Care Facilities 
per each Aged
complying with the 
Care Facilities
Aged Care Quality 
complying with
Standards 
Aged Care
Quality
Standards
(5) DLI #5: Number of DLR #5: 19,000 Wage 
28,660,000 
EUR 1508.43 per
Wage Caregivers receiving 
Caregivers receiving 
each 
Wage
training and certification in 
training and 
Caregiver
the age care sector 
certification in the age 
receiving training
care sector 
and certification
in the age care
sector
(6) DLI #6: Development 
DLR #6.1: DOCA has 
17,196,000 
n/a
of the Zero-based Aged 
developed the Zero-
Care Budget Planning and 
based Aged Care
Allocation Guidelines and 
Budget Planning and
number of Program 
Allocation Guidelines
Districts/ Program
Counties where 
DLR #6.2: 
40,124,000 
EUR 835,916.67
Implementation of the 
Implementation of the 
per each Program
Zero-based Aged Care 
Zero-based Aged Care 
District/ Program
Budget Planning and 
Budget Planning and 
County
Allocation Guidelines has 
Allocation Guidelines
occurred 
has occurred in 48
Program Districts
/Program Counties
(7) DLI #7: Development 
DLR #7.1: DOCA has 
5,732,000 
n/a
of the Operational 
developed the
Management Guidelines 
Operational
for public aged care 
Management
facilities and number of 
Guidelines for public
Program Districts/ 
aged care facilities
Program Counties where
Implementation of the 
DLR #7.2: 
22,928,000 
EUR 477,666.67
Operational Management 
Implementation of the 
per each Program
Guidelines for public aged 
Operational 
District/ Program
care facilities has occurred 
Management 
County
Guidelines for public
aged care facilities has
occurred in 48 Program
Districts/ Program
Counties
(8) Front-end Fee to be 
764,250
paid pursuant to Section
2.03 of this Agreement in
- 10-
accordance with Section
2.05 (b) of the General
Conditions
(9) Interest and 
18,335,750
Commitment Charge on
the Loan accrued on or
before the last Payment
Date immediately
preceding the Closing
Date, to be paid pursuant
to Sections 2.05 and 2.04
of this Agreement,
respectively, in
accordance with Section
2.07 (c) of the General
Conditions
(10) Interest Rate Cap or 
0
Interest Rate Collar
premium to be paid
pursuant to Section 4.05
(c) of the General
Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
305,700,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
on the basis of DLRs achieved prior to the Signature Date;
(b) 
for any DLR (except DLR #4.2) under Categories (1), (2), (4), (6) and (7), until
and unless the Program Implementing Entity has furnished evidence in accordance
with the provisions of the Verification Protocol and acceptable to the Bank
showing that said DLR has been achieved; and
(c) 
for DLRs #3, #4.2 and #5 under Categories (3), (4) and (5), until and unless the
Program Implementing Entity has furnished evidence in accordance with the
provisions of the Verification Protocol and acceptable to the Bank showing that
the Minimum DLR, and thereafter any DLR above the Minimum DLR, has been
achieved.
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.1(b) and (c) of this Section, the Borrower may
withdraw an amount not to exceed E76,425,000 as an advance; provided, however, that if
the DLRs in the opinion of the Bank, are not achieved (or only partially achieved) by the
Closing Date, the Borrower shall refund such advance (or the portion thereof corresponding
- 11 
to the extent of partial achievement of the DLRs, said portion to be calculated in accordance
with the Formula (if applicable)) to the Bank promptly upon notice thereof by the Bank.
Except as otherwise agreed with the Borrower, the Bank shall cancel the amount so
refunded. Any further withdrawals requested as an advance under any Category shall be
permitted only on such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B. 1(b) and (c) of this Section, the amount of the
Loan to be withdrawn upon the verified achievement of any DLR by the end of each
calendar year (or such other period as agreed with the Bank), shall be calculated, in
accordance with the Formula.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B. 1(b) and (c) of this Section, if any of the DLRs
has not been achieved by the date by which the said DLR is set to be achieved, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower: (a) only with respect to DLRs #1.2, #2.2, #3, #4.2, #5, #6.2
and #7.2, authorize the withdrawal of such lesser amount of the unwithdrawn proceeds of
the Loan then allocated to said Category which, in the opinion of the Bank, corresponds to
the extent of achievement of said DLR, said lesser amount to be calculated in accordance
with the Formula; (b) reallocate all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan then allocated
to said DLR to any other DLR; and/or (c) cancel all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan
then allocated to said DLR.
5. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2024.
6. 
For purposes of, inter alia, Section 2.03 and 7.04 of the General Conditions, the term
"Program Expenditures" means those expenditures incurred by the Program Implementing
Entity under its budget codes 208 and 229 (or such other codes as may be notified to the
Bank from time to time) and the expenditures financed out of the Loan proceeds, but
excluding any expenditures associated with the Excluded Activities.
- 12 
SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date ("Installment Share").
Level Principal Repayments
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
On each April l and October 1
Beginning April 1, 2025 through April 1, 2052 
1.79%
On October 1, 2052 
1.55%
- 13 
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Aged Care Facilities" means various institutional facilities established and operating in
Guizhou for delivering aged care services, including urban community daycare centers,
rural happiness homes, rural and urban welfare homes, nursing homes, residential homes,
aged care service centers, and rehabilitation centers.
2. 
"Aged Care Quality Standards" means the Program Implementing Entity's set of standards
for the quality of age care facilities and services, acceptable to the Bank, setting forth,
inter alia the core standards and specifications for aged care infrastructure, equipment,
service delivery, human resources, management and governance at the home, community
and institutional levels, as the same may be revised from time to time with the prior written
agreement of the Bank.
3. 
"Aged Care Leading Group" means Guizhou's leading group, comprising a provincial
representative as chair and representatives of DOCA, key line departments, or any
successors thereto, and referred to in Section I.B.1 (a) (i) of the Schedule to the Program
Agreement.
4. 
"Anti-corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the Bank's "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and
Corruption in Program-for-Results Financing," dated February 1, 2012, and revised July
10,2015.
5. 
"Basic Package of Aged Care Services" means the Program Implementing Entity's set of
publicly financed aged care services comprising three tiers of home, community and
institutional care, acceptable to the Bank, as the same may be revised from time to time
with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
6. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
7. 
"Co-financier" means Agence Franqaise de Developpement.
8. 
"Co-financing" means, for purposes of paragraph 16 of the Appendix to the General
Conditions, an amount of Euro 100,000,000 to be provided by the Co-financier to assist in
financing the Program.
9. 
"Co-financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and the Co-financier providing for the Co-financing.
- 14 
10. 
"Disbursement Linked Indicator" or "DLI' means in respect of a given Category, the
indicator related to said Category as set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
11. 
"Disbursement Linked Result" or "DLR" means in respect of a given Category, the result
under said Category as set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, on the basis of the achievement of which, the amount of the Loan allocated to
said result may be withdrawn in accordance with the provisions of said Section IV.
12. 
"DOCA" means Guizhou's department of civil affairs, or any successor thereto.
13. 
"Eligible Elderly" means elderly (above 60 years) who meet the eligibility criteria for
accessing to the Basic Package of Aged Care Services, as said criteria are determined based
on the functional needs and economic needs of the elderly in the respective Program
District/Program County.
14. 
"Excluded Activities" means the activities that are referred to in Section II of Schedule 2
to this Agreement and Section II of the Schedule to the Program Agreement.
15. 
"Formula" means in respect of DLRs #1.2, #2.2, #3, #4.2, #5, #6.2 and #7.2, the
disbursement calculation formula set forth in the fourth column of the table in Section
IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
16. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Program-for-Results Financing", dated
December 14, 2018.
17. 
"Guizhou" means the Borrower's province of the same name, or any successor thereto.
18. 
"Guizhou Aged Care Office" means the office established by DOCA, on July 11, 2017,
responsible for supporting the implementation and coordination of the Program, or any
successor thereto, and referred to in Section I.B. 1 (a) (iii) of the Schedule to the Program
Agreement.
19. 
"Implementation" means the set of specific actions to be carried out by each Program
District or Program County with respect to each of DLIs 1, 2, 6 and 7 and the corresponding
DLRs #12, #2.2, #6.2 and #7.2, as set forth in the Program Operations Manual, and verified
in accordance with the Verification Protocol.
20. 
"Minimum DLR" means with respect to: (i) DLR #3, 500 Eligible Elderly receiving the
Basic Package of Aged Care Services; (ii) DLR #4.2, 100 Aged Care Facilities complying
- 15 
with the Aged Care Quality Standards; and (iii) DLR #5.2, 625 Wage Caregivers receiving
training and certification in the age care sector.
21. 
"Needs Assessment Toolkit" means the Program Implementing Entity's toolkit for
assessing functional limitations in the access of aged care services, acceptable to the Bank,
setting forth inter alia, methodologies and assessment instruments for measuring the
degree of the elderly independence and their living environment, as the same may be
revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
22. 
"Operational Management Guidelines" means the Program Implementing Entity's
guidelines for operational management of public aged care facilities, acceptable to the
Bank, setting forth, inter alia, rules, procedures and specific requirements to manage and
oversee the operations of public aged care facilities, including those that are publicly
owned and operated and those that are the publicly owned and privately operated ones, as
the same may be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
23. 
"Program 
Action 
Plan" 
means 
Program 
Implementing 
Entity's 
plan 
dated
January 31, 2019 and referred to in Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and Section
I.B.2 of the Schedule to the Program Agreement, as may be amended from time to time
with the agreement of the Bank.
24. 
"Program Counties" means Guizhou's counties of Kaiyang, Xifeng, Xiuwen, Shuicheng,
Tongzi, Suiyang, Zhengan, Fenggang, Meitan, Yuqing, Xishui, Daozhen, Wuchuan, Libo,
Guiding, Wengan, Pingtang, Luodian, Changshun, Longli, Huishui, Dushan, Sandu,
Xingren, Puan, Qinglong, Anlong, Wangmo, Zhenfeng, Ceheng, or any successors thereto.
25. 
"Program Districts" means Guizhou's districts of Nanming, Yunyan, Huaxi, Wudang,
Baiyun, Guanshanhu,Qingzhen, Zhongshan, Liuzhi, Panzhou, Honghuagang, Huichuan,
Bozhou, Chishui, Renhuai, Duyun, Fuquan, Xingyi, or any successors thereto.
26. 
"Program Prefectures" means Guizhou's prefectures of Guiyang, Liupanshui, Qiannan,
Qianxinan and Zunyi, or any successors thereto.
27. 
"Program Implementing Entity" means Guizhou.
28. 
"Program Operations Manual" means the Program Implementing Entity's manual, referred
to in Section I.B.3 of the Schedule to the Program Agreement, describing: (i) institutional
and implementation arrangements; (ii) procurement procedures, and procedures for
reporting allegations of fraud and corruption; (iii) a financial management manual,
including guidelines on financial management, internal controls, accounting procedures,
fund and asset management and withdrawal application procedures; (iv) the procedures for
managing the actual and potential adverse environmental and social impacts of the Program
- 16-
(v) monitoring, evaluation and reporting procedures, including the Verification Protocol;
(vi) a sub-manual on land acquisition; and (vii) a sub-manual of public consultation and
grievance procedures; as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior written
agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any annexes or schedules thereto.
29. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the date of the Loan
Agreement" in the General Conditions.
30. 
"Verification Protocol" means the protocol setting forth the actions and mechanism
required for verification of DLRs, agreed with the Bank, dated January 31, 2019, and
referred to in Section IV.B. 1(b) and (c) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may
be amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
31. 
"Wage Caregivers" means wage workers in the age care sector, including nurses, therapists
and rehabilitators at aged care facilities or such other type of wage worker as may be set
form in the Program Operations Manual, but excluding supporting and managerial staff,
professionals, and family caregivers.
32. 
"Zero-based Aged Care Budget Planning and Allocation Guidelines" means the Program
Implementing Entity's guidelines for budget planning, execution, and monitoring,
acceptable to the Bank, setting forth inter alia, a budgeting process with zero as its base,
and budget planning, execution and monitoring arrangements incorporating actual local
needs from market analysis and gaps identified for the aged care system development, as
the same may be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
- 17 
