OFFICIAL 
DOCUMENTS 
LOAN NUMBER 8952-GE 
Project Agreement 
(Energy Supply Reliability and Financial Recovery Project) 
between 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
and 
GEORGIAN STATE ELECTROSYSTEM 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") and GEORGIAN STATE ELECTROSYSTEM 
("Project Implementing Entity") ("Project Agreement") in connection with the Loan 
Agreement ("Loan Agreement") of the Signature Date between GEORGIA ("Borrower") 
and the Bank, concerning Loan No. 8952-GE. The Bank and the Project Implementing 
Entity hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to the Loan Agreement) apply 
to and form part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Loan Agreement or the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE II -
PROJECT 
2.0 I. 
The Project Implementing Entity declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project. To this end, the Project Implementing Entity shall carry out Part l and 
Part 2 of the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and the Schedule to this Agreement, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Part I and 
Part 2 of the Project. 
ARTICLE III -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
3.0 I. 
The Project Implementing Entity's Representative is the Chairman of the 
Management Board/Rehabi I itation Manager. 
3.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank's address is: 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America; and 
(b) the Bank's Electronic Address is: 
Facsimile: 
1-202-477-6391 
E-mail: 
mtembon@worldbank.org 
- 2 -
4.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Project 
Implementing Entity's address is: 
Georgian State ElectroSystem 
2 Baratashvili Street 
0105 Tbilisi 
Georgia; and 
(b) the Project Implementing Entity's Electronic Address is: 
Facsimile: 
995 322 983704 
E-mail: 
info@gse.com. ge 
AGREED as of the later of the two dates written below. 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
By 
Authorized Representative 
Name: rv\tf"Cj f{h~C\ tl~ l.e.V\lt bo,.J 
Title:ti.f,o~ Dr'/'ll.Ck,r b fiAl s~ Ca..uC4',Su$ 
Date: . l.<t1e IB ~ ~ 
(~ 
GEORGIAN STATE ELECTROSYSTEM 
By 
Title: 
Date: 
j lA \l\e tt, W( ~ 
stb~illl>'W'I )-f~li"l/U.l.8 
KRotou .. L P"i~do~ lar 
-L<ic.. SO-A(\ Cc:,wc,u..._~ 
Au,.su.c.t- -Z..7 1 lOL~ 
- 3 -
SCHEDULE 
Execution of the Project 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity (PIE) shall carry out Part 1 and Part 2 of the 
Project in accordance with this Agreement, the Subsidiary Agreement and the 
Project Operational Manual and shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any 
provision of said Manual without the prior written approval of the Bank. In case 
of a conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and those in this 
Agreement and in the Loan Agreement, the terms of these agreements shall prevail. 
2. 
The PIE shall maintain its International Projects and Reporting Department 
(IPRD), throughout the duration of the Project, with adequate resources and 
facilities, and professional staff in adequate numbers whose qualifications, 
experience and terms of reference shall be acceptable to the Bank. 
3. 
The PIE's Management Board shall oversee the implementation of Part I and Part 
2 of the Project, such Management Board to be comprised of its Chairman and the 
members responsible for the PlE's main functional areas. 
4. 
For the purposes of this Section A.3 of the Schedule, the PIE Management Board 
is defined as follows: 
"Management Board" means the board of the PIE established pursuant to 
Chapter IO of the Charter of PIE, approved by Order No. 70 of the Ministry 
of Energy, dated April 17, 2013. 
B. 
Environmental and Social Standards 
I. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall ensure that Part I and Part 2 of the Project 
is carried out in accordance with the Environmental and Social Standards, in a 
manner acceptable to the Bank. 
2. 
Without limitation upon paragraph I above, the Project Implementing Entity shall 
ensure that Part I and Part 2 of the Project is implemented in accordance with the 
Environmental and Social Commitment Plan ("ESCP"), in a manner acceptable to 
the Bank. To this end, the Project Implementing Entity shall ensure that: 
(a) 
the measures and actions specified in the ESCP are implemented with due 
diligence and efficiency, and as further specified in the ESCP; 
- 4 -
(b) 
sufficient funds are available to cover the costs of implementing the ESCP; 
(c) 
policies, procedures and qualified staff are maintained to enable it to 
implement the ESCP, as further specified in the ESCP; and 
(d) 
the ESCP or any provision thereof, is not amended, revised or waived, 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing and the Project 
Implementing Entity has, thereafter, disclosed the revised ESCP. 
3. 
ln case of any inconsistencies between the ESCP and the provisions of this 
Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 
4. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall: 
(a) 
take all measures necessary on its part to collect, compile, and furnish to 
the Bank through regular reports, with the frequency specified in the 
ESCP, and promptly in a separate report or reports, if so requested by the 
Bank, information on the status of compliance with the ESCP and the 
management tools and instruments referred to therein, all such reports in 
form and substance acceptable to the Bank, setting out, inter alia: (i) the 
status of implementation of the ESCP; (i i) conditions, if any, which 
interfere or threaten to interfere with the implementation of the ESCP; and 
(iii) corrective and preventive measures taken or required to be taken to 
address such conditions; and 
(b) 
promptly notify the Bank of any incident or accident related to or having 
an impact on Part I and Part 2 of the Project which has, or is likely to have, 
a significant adverse effect on the environment, the affected communities, 
the public or workers, including in accordance with the ESCP, the 
instruments referenced therein and the Environmental and Social 
Standards. 
5. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall maintain and publicize the availability of a 
grievance mechanism, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, to hear and 
determine fairly and in good faith all complaints raised in relation to Part I and 
Part 2 of the Project, and take all measures necessary to implement the 
determinations made by such mechanism in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
- 5 -
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
The Project Implementing Entity shall monitor and evaluate the progress of Part I 
and Part 2 of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 5.08 (b) of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the 
Bank. Each such Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-ft ve ( 45) days after the end of the period 
covered by such report. 
Section III. 
Other Undertakings 
A. 
The PIE shall: 
(i) 
ensure that it follows the Rehabilitation Plan agreed with MOF in order to 
secure the end of the rehabilitation regime procedure of the PIE by the end 
of the third quarter of Fiscal Year 2020, and that a copy of the court 
decision confirming the end of the rehabilitation regime procedure of the 
Pl E is submitted to the Bank within one month of its issuance; 
(ii) 
Prepare by the end of the second quarter of Fiscal Year 2020 and thereafter 
implement, under terms satisfactory to the Bank, a Debt Management 
Strategy, which includes specific financial targets, acceptable to the Bank, 
and shall not amend or modify any provisions of said Strategy without the 
prior approval of the Bank; and 
(iii) 
ensure that the PIE and EnergoTrans have no cash deficit by the end of 
Fiscal Year 2020. 
B. 
For the purposes of paragraph A above: 
(i) 
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to value, 
in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another currency, 
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of 
exchange at which such other currency is, at the time of such valuation, 
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of 
such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank. 
(ii) 
The term "cash deficit" means the difference between the cash revenues 
of PIE and GSE and the costs on accrual basis. 
(iii) 
The term "operating cash flows" means the cash flows from operating 
activities derived from principal revenue-generating activities of the PIE 
and EnergoTrans and as reflected in the IFRS compliant annual audited 
financial statements of the PIE and EnergoTrans. 
- 6 -
(iv) 
The term "accrual basis" costs means the operations and maintenance, 
salary, interest and principal, taxes, and other operating costs required for 
core business operations of GSE. 
(v) 
The term "IFRS" means International Financial Reporting Standards in 
effect. 
