OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8976-ID
Loan Agreement
(National Urban Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
2 of 15 
LN 8976-ID
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form part
of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have the
meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of forty-nine million six hundred thousand
United States Dollars (USD 49,600,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn
Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Fixed Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
2.08. 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit (as said
terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of this Section), the Borrower
shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of one half of one percent (0.5%) per
annum of the Allocated Excess Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i)
of this Section) for each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if
any) shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
3 of 15 
LN 8976-ID
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during which the
Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit, the product of: (A) the
total amount of said excess; and (B) the ratio of all (or, if the Bank so
determines, a portion) of the Loan to the aggregate amount of all (or the
equivalent portions) of the loans made by the Bank to the Borrower and to other
borrowers guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an exposure
surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined from time to time
by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the Bank's financial
exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded, would subject the Loan to the
Exposure Surcharge, as determined from time to time by the Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total financial exposure
to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project, through the Ministry of Public Works and Housing,
BAPPENAS and the Ministry of Home Affairs, in accordance with the provisions of Article V
of the General Conditions and Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS;
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Finance.
5.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower's address is:
Directorate General of Budget Financing and Risk Management
Ministry of Finance
Gedung Frans Seda
Jalan DR. Wahidin Raya No. 1
Jakarta 10710
Indonesia; and
(b) the Borrower's Electronic Address is: Facsimile: +62-21-381-2859
4 of 15 
LN 8976-ID
5.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
REPUBLIC 
F INDONESIA
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
LVL3ALfiP2MA~N 
DiRECTOP, 
&EIIJCPAL 
OF 
&JC)6ET 
F-IN~ATNIP6
Title: 
IWlO 
Pri 
MAWA& CMt
Date: 
It 
tOjVEM8u 
2010J
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTIO 
LOPMENT
By
Autho 'epre 
ntative
Name:
Title:
Date: 
//
5 of 15 
LN 8976-ID
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to increase the number of participating cities carrying out
integrated planning and prioritizing their capital investments.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: National Urban Institutional and Policy Development
1. 
Strengthening the capacity of the Inter-Ministerial Coordination Team for Urban
Development to deliver on its inter-sectoral coordination function.
2. Formulation of national urban policy designed to promote integrated urban development
including providing inputs to: (a) the RPJMN; and (b) city positioning and economic
development study.
3. Formulation of national urban infrastructure development strategy plan based on the national
urban policy.
Part 2: Integrated Planning for Urban Development
1. 
Strengthening the quality of data and institutional capacity for data governance through
supporting data development and maintenance, capacity building for data analysis,
establishment of integrated data platforms and drafting of municipal data governance policies.
2. Supporting integrated spatial planning through: (a) carrying out select strategic and analytic
studies to inform statutory plans (such as RPJMD) and non-statutory sectoral plans including
such studies as economic strategy study; baseline survey and analytics study; environmental
zoning and land suitability study; strategic environmental and social assessment; and strategic
integrated transport and land use planning study; (b) preparation of Spatial Development
Framework (SDF); and 
(c) preparation of Strategic Area Frameworks (SAFs); (d) support
the integration of SDF and SAF approaches through review of regulation of RTRWK, RDTR,
RPJMD guidelines and technical assistance.
3. 
Preparation of priority area development plans (rencana pembangunan kawasan prioritas).
4. 
(a) Development of Capital Investment Planning (CIP) framework; (b) supporting
implementation of the CIP framework including through provision of training to relevant
actors such as local governments, universities and private vendors; and (c) formulation of
draft supplemental regulations to guide CIP framework implementation under relevant
ministerial regulation(s).
6 of 15 
LN 8976-ID
Part 3: City Financial Management Capacity Development
1. 
Carrying out assessment of city level financing and project management capacity.
2. 
Enhancing capacity of cities to access alternative sources of finance through providing
support for training, capacity building and systems/tools on such topics as creditworthiness,
debt management, municipal bonds and land-based financing approaches.
Part 4: Project Implementation Support
Provision of technical advisory services and Training and Workshops to entities at national,
provincial and city levels responsible for management and implementation of the Project, including:
(a) recruitment of consultants to support implementation of all Project activities; (b) carrying out
procurement management, contract supervision and financial management, including financial and
technical audits; (c) carrying out environmental and social safeguards management, including citizen
engagement; (d) monitoring, reviewing and evaluation of the Project; and (e) carrying out Project
outreach and dissemination activities.
7 of 15 
LN 8976-ID
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section 1. 
Implementation Arran2ements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
maintain until completion of the Project the Inter-ministerial Coordination Team for
Urban Development chaired by BAPPENAS and including -
among others 
representatives from the Ministry of Public Works and Housing, the Ministry of
Finance, the Ministry of Home Affairs, Ministry of Agrarian Affairs and Spatial
Planning/National Land Agency (ATR/BPN), Ministry of Transportation, Ministry of
Communication and Information Technology, Geospatial Information Agency and
Coordinating Ministry of Economy, which shall be responsible for inter alia Project
coordination 
(including cross-sectoral 
and inter-ministerial 
coordination) 
and
monitoring the achievement of the Project objective;
(b) 
maintain until completion of the Project the Central Project Management Unit
(CPMU), in the Ministry of Public Works and Housing, which shall be responsible for
overall management of the Project;
(c) 
maintain until completion of the Project, Project Implementation Units (PIUs) at (i)
BAPPENAS; (ii) the Ministry of Home Affairs; and (iii) the Ministry of Public Works
and Housing, each of which shall be responsible for provision of technical guidance of
Project activities within the jurisdiction of its respective ministry in coordination with
relevant national level agencies and ministries such as the Central Bureau of Statistics,
the Geospatial Information Agency, the Ministry of Transportation and the Ministry
of Environment and Forestry; and
(d) 
at the level of each Participating City, cause to be established, prior to the
commencement of Project activities in such Participating City and thereafter maintain
until completion of the Project, a City Coordination Committee to be responsible for
coordinating Project implementation at the City level.
2. 
Without limitation to the provision of paragraph I of this Section LA, the Borrower shall ensure
collaboration among PIUs and other Project implementing entities to support Project activities
(including those related to spatial planning) as further detailed in the Project Operations
Manual. To this end, should ajoint review carried out by the Borrower and Bank during Project
implementation conclude that it is necessary to have additional PIU(s) - promptly after such
decision - the Borrower shall ensure that: (a) an assessment of the proposed PIU is facilitated,
following which; (b) such PIU is established and; (c) thereafter, the said PIU is maintained
until completion of the Project.
8 of 15 
LN 8976-ID
3. 
The Borrower shall provide, or cause to be provided, as the case may be, each of the CPMU,
the PIUs and City Coordination Committees at all times with adequate funds (allocated in the
budget) and other resources, and with qualified and experienced personnel in adequate
numbers, as shall be necessary to accomplish its terms of reference and objectives, as further
detailed in the Project Operations Manual.
4. 
Without limitation to the provision of paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of this Section L.A, the Borrower
shall recruit and retain such consultants -
including the project management support
consultants, technical management consultants and oversight service providers - as may be
needed to support the functions of the entities referred to in these paragraphs, all with
composition and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower as further detailed
in the Project Operations Manual.
B. 
Project Operations Manual
1 .
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with the Project Operations
Manual, acceptable to the Bank, which shall include the description of: (i)
implementation arrangements including delineation of roles and responsibilities of
various entities, institutions and agencies involved in Project implementation and their
coordination; 
(ii) 
the 
procurement 
procedures 
and 
standard 
procurement
documentation; (iii) disbursement arrangements, reporting requirements, financial
management procedures and audit procedures; (iv) procedures for preparing and
reviewing a consolidated annual work plan and budget for each Fiscal Year; (v) the
Project performance indicators and monitoring and evaluation arrangements; (vi)
arrangement and procedures for environment and social safeguard management; (vii)
eligibility and selection criteria for Participating Cities; and (viii) such other
administrative, financial, technical and organizational arrangements and procedures as
shall be required for the Project;
(b) 
not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provisions of the Project Operations
Manual without the prior written agreement of the Borrower and the Bank; and
(c) 
with the prior written agreement of the Borrower and the Bank, update the Project
Operations Manual, as necessary, at all times ensuring compliance thereof with the
terms of this Agreement.
2. 
In the event of any conflict between the provisions of: (a) the Project Operations Manual; and
(b) those of this Agreement, the latter shall prevail.
C. 
Annual Work Plans and Budgets
1 .
The Borrower shall: (a) prepare and furnish to the Bank by September 30 in each year 
beginning in the Fiscal Year 2020 - a proposed Project's consolidated annual work plan and
budget for the following Fiscal Year; (b) taking into account the Bank's comments, finalize the
plan and furnish it to Bank for its approval not later than November 30 in each year - beginning
in the Fiscal Year 2020; and (c) adopt the plan as shall have been approved by the Bank
(Annual Work Plan and Budget) and thereafter ensure that the Project is carried out in
accordance with each of such Annual Work Plan and Budget, in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank.
9 of 15 
LN 8976-ID
2. 
The Borrower shall not amend, suspend, abrogate or waiver said Annual Work Plan and Budget
or any of its provisions without the prior written agreement of the Bank.
D. 
Safeguards
1 .
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out with due regard to appropriate health,
safety, social, and environmental practices and standards, and in accordance with the
Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF).
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that: (a) all consultancies related to technical assistance, design and
capacity building under the Project, the application of whose results could have environmental,
social and health and safety implications, shall only be undertaken pursuant to terms of
reference reviewed and found satisfactory by the Bank; and (b) such terms of reference shall
require the technical assistance, design and capacity building activities to take into account the
requirements of the applicable Bank Safeguards Policies and EHS Guidelines.
3. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower shall ensure, and cause to
ensure, that none of the provisions of the ESMF be abrogated, amended, repealed, suspended
or waived. 
In case of any inconsistencies between the provisions of the ESMF and the
provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
4. 
Without limitation upon its other reporting obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower
shall take all measures necessary on its part to regularly collect, compile, and submit to the
Bank, as part of the Project Reports, and promptly in a separate report whenever the Bank may
require, information on the status of compliance with the ESMF. Such information shall
include: (i) measures taken in furtherance of the ESMF; (ii) conditions, if any, which interfere
or threaten to interfere with the smooth implementation of the ESMF; and (iii) remedial
measures taken or required to be taken to address such conditions.
5. 
The Borrower shall maintain, throughout Project implementation, and publicize the availability
of a grievance redress mechanism, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, to hear and
determine fairly and in good faith all complaints raised in relation to the Project and take all
measures necessary to implement the determinations made by such mechanism in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section II. 
Proeect Monitorin2 Reporting and Evaluation
1. 
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than forty-five (45) days
after the end of each calendar year, covering the calendar year.
2. 
No later than June 30, 2022, the Borrower shall, in conjunction with the Bank, carry out a mid-
term review of the Project (the "Mid-term Review"), covering the progress achieved in the
implementation of the Project. To this end, the Borrower shall prepare - under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank - and furnish to the Bank not less than three (3) months prior
to the beginning of the Mid-term Review, a report integrating the results of the Project's
monitoring and evaluation activities, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project
during the period preceding the date of such report, and setting out the measures recommended
to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objective of the
10 of 15 
LN 8976-ID
Project during the period following such date. Following the Mid-term Review, the Borrower
shall act promptly and diligently in order to take, or cause to be taken, measures recommended
to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objective as well
as any corrective action deemed necessary by the Bank to remedy any shortcoming noted in
the carrying out of the Project in furtherance of the objective of the Project.
Section III. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in
accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to finance Eligible Expenditures in the amount allocated
and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category of the following table:
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures to be
Allocated 
financed
Category 
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
Consulting 
services, 
non- 
49,600,000 
100%
consulting 
services, 
goods,
Training and Workshops and
Incremental Operating Costs for
the Project
TOTAL AMOUNT 
49,600,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made for payments
made prior to the Signature Date.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2024.
11 of 15 
LN 8976-ID
SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the total
principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date ("Installment Share").
Annuity Principal Repayments
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
January 15, 2026 
6.47%
July 15, 2026 
6.57%
January 15, 2027 
6.67%
July 15, 2027 
6.77%
January 15, 2028 
6.87%
July 15, 2028 
6.97%
January 15, 2029 
7.07%
July 15, 2029 
7.18%
January 15, 2030 
7.29%
July 15, 2030 
7.40%
January 15, 2031 
7.51%
July 15, 2031 
7.62%
January 15, 2032 
7.74%
July 15, 2032 
7.87%
12 of 15 
LN 8976-ID
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Annual Work Plan and Budget" means each of the consolidated annual work plans and
budgets for the Project to be prepared or updated as provided for in Section I.C. 1 of Schedule
2 to this Agreement; and "Annual Work Plans and Budgets" means, collectively, all such plans.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption in
Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and
revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
3. 
"Bank's Safeguards Policies" means the operational policies and procedures for financing of
development projects by the Bank at the date of this Agreement and relating to Environmental
Assessment, Natural Habitats, Pest Management, Indigenous Peoples, Physical Cultural
Resources, Involuntary Resettlement, Forests, Safety of Dams, Projects on International
Waterways, and Projects in Disputed Areas, as published under http://policies.worldbank.org/
to the extent they are applicable to the Project.
4. 
"BAPPEDA" means Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Daerah or the regional development
planning agency of a province or a city of the Borrower, as the case may be, or any successor
thereto.
5. 
"BAPPENAS" means the ministry responsible for national development planning or the
national development planning agency (Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Nasional) of the
Borrower, or any successor thereto.
6. 
"Capital Investment Planning" and the acronym "CIP" mean investment prioritization, budget
fitting and tracking system at the city level - designed to support effective operationalization
of spatial plans into capital investments - whose establishment is supported under Part 2.4 of
the Project and elaborated in the Project Operations Manual.
7. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
8. 
"Central Bureau of Statistics" means Badan Pusat Statistik, the Borrower's entity established
and operating pursuant to Borrower's law no. 16 of 1997, or any successor thereto.
9. 
"Central Project Management Unit" and the acronym "CPMU" mean the unit referred to in
Section I.A. 1(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
10. 
"City Coordination Committee" means the committee referred to in Section I.A.1(d) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and "City Coordination Committees" means, collectively, all
such committees.
11. 
"Coordinating Ministry of Economy" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for
coordinating economic affairs, or any successor thereto.
13 of 15 
LN 8976-ID
12. 
"EHS Guidelines" means the World Bank Group's environmental, health, and safety
guidelines, incorporated by reference into the Environmental and Social Management
Framework, as published under www.ifc.org/ehsguidelines
13. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" and the acronym "ESMF" mean the
environmental and social management framework dated February 2019 and adopted by the
Borrower and publicly disclosed on the Bank's external website (documents & reports) on
April 21, 2019, such framework setting out the principles, rules, guidelines and procedures to
assess environmental and social impacts of the activities to be undertaken under the Project,
and measures and plans to reduce, avoid, mitigate and/or offset adverse social and
environmental impacts and enhance positive impacts of said activities, provisions for
estimating and budgeting the costs of such measures, and information on the agency or
agencies responsible for addressing project impacts, as said instrument may be amended from
time to time with the Bank's prior written agreement, such framework incorporating among
others the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework and the Land Acquisition and Resettlement
Policy Framework.
14. 
"Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year commencing January 1 and ending December
31 of the same year.
15. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing", dated December 14,
2018.
16. 
"Geospatial Information Agency" or "Badan Informasi Geospasial" and the acronym "BIG"
mean Borrower's agency established and operating pursuant to the Presidential Regulation No.
94/ 2011 and responsible for undertaking government's tasks in the field of geospatial
information.
17. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the reasonable incremental operating costs under the
Project, based on the Annual Work Plans and Budgets, incurred by the Borrower for purposes
of Project management, implementation and monitoring and evaluation, including office
supplies and consumables, utilities, bank charges, communications, information and
communication campaigns, mass media and printing services, vehicle rental, operation,
maintenance and insurance, office space rental, building and equipment maintenance, travel,
lodging and subsistence allowances, and salaries of contractual and temporary staff, but
excluding salary and salary supplements of staff of the Borrower's civil service.
18. 
"Indigenous Peoples" means those social groups in the Borrower's territory that have a distinct,
vulnerable, social and cultural identity, and that possess the following characteristics in
varying degrees: (a) self-identification as members of a distinct indigenous cultural group and
recognition of this identity by others; (b) collective attachment to geographically distinct
habitats or ancestral territories in the Project area and to the natural resources in these habitats
and territories; (c) customary cultural, economic, social, or political institutions that are
separate from those of the dominant society and culture; and (d) an indigenous language.
14 of 15 
LN 8976-ID
19. 
"Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework" means the indigenous peoples planning
framework, incorporated in the ESMF, which sets out the principles, policies, measures and
organizational arrangements designed to facilitate a process of free, prior and informed
consultation involving Indigenous Peoples in the design and implementation of the Project,
and to ensure that such Indigenous Peoples derive benefits from the Project which are socially,
economically and culturally appropriate, and gender and inter-generationally inclusive, as such
framework may be amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
20. 
"Inter-Ministerial Coordination Team for Urban Development" means Tim Koordinasi
Pembangunan Perkotaan Nasional,the steering committee referred to in Section I.A. 1(a) of
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, or any successor thereto.
21. 
"Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework" means the land acquisition and
resettlement policy framework for the Project, incorporated in the ESMF, setting forth the
measures and actions to be taken during the implementation of the Project for the provision of
compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement assistance to Project Affected Persons.
22. 
"Ministry of Agrarian Affairs and Spatial Planning/National Land Agency" and the acronym
"ATR/BPN" mean the Borrower's ministry responsible for spatial planning or any successor
thereto.
23. 
"Ministry of Communication and Information Technology" means the Borrower's ministry
responsible for communication and information or any successor thereto.
24. 
"Ministry of Environment and Forestry" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for
environment or any successor thereto.
25. 
"Ministry of Finance" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for finance or any successor
thereto.
26. 
"Ministry of Home Affairs" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for internal affairs or
any successor thereto.
27. 
"Ministry of Public Works and Housing" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for public
works and housing or any successor thereto.
28. 
"Ministry of Transportation" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for transportation or
any successor thereto.
29. 
"Participating City" means a city (kota) meeting the eligibility requirements set out in the
Project Operations Manual and selected to participate in the Project; and "Participating Cities"
means, collectively, all such cities.
30. 
"Procurement Regulations" means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF Borrowers", dated July
2016, revised November 2017 and August 2018.
15 of 15 
LN 8976-ID
31. 
"Project Affected Person" means a person who, on account of the execution of the Project, has
experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by: (a) the
involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or
access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such
person must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally
designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such
person; and, "Project Affected Persons", means more than one Project Affected Person.
32. 
"Project Implementation Unit" and the acronym "PIU" mean any of the units referred to in
Section I.A.1(c) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and "Project Implementation Units" means,
collectively, all such units.
33. 
"Project Operations Manual" means the manual acceptable to the Bank, dated April 9, 2019
referred to in Section I.B. 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time in agreement with the Bank, and such term includes any schedules to the Project
Operations Manual.
34. 
"RDTR" means Rencana Detail Tata Ruang, a detailed spatial plan as referred to in Borrower's
law no. 26 of the year 2007 concerning spatial management.
35. 
"RPJMD" means Rencana Pembangunan Jangka Menengah Daerah, a regional (sub-national)
medium-term development plan.
36. 
"RPJMN" means Rencana Pembangunan Jangka Menengah Nasional, the Borrower's
national medium-term development plan.
37. 
"RTRWK" means Rencana Tata Ruang Wilayah Kabupaten/Kota, a general spatial plan as
referred to in Borrower's law no. 26 of the year 2007 concerning spatial management.
38. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank signed
this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the date of the Loan
Agreement" in the General Conditions.
39. 
"Spatial Development Framework" and the acronym "SDF" mean an approach of integrated
spatial planning at the city level designed to strengthen the RTRWK and RPJMD through a
process that combines synthesis of analytical inputs and consultative process across line
departments and with citizens as this approach is further detailed in the Project Operations
Manual.
40. 
"Strategic Area Framework" and the acronym "SAF" mean an approach of integrated spatial
planning at a selected priority strategic area identified under SDF - designed to strengthen the
RDTR - through detailed spatial planning within this area and consultative processes to ensure
alignment of priorities of stakeholders within overall direction of development of the area, as
this approach is further detailed in the Project Operations Manual.
41. 
"Training and Workshops" means the costs of training activities under the Project, based on
the Annual Work Plans and Budgets approved in advance by the Bank, and attributable to
seminars, workshops, and domestic and overseas training, along with travel and subsistence
allowances for training participants, services of trainers, rental of training facilities, preparation
and reproduction of training materials, and other activities directly related to course preparation
and implementation.
