OFFICIAL
DOCUPMENTS
1910/ 
LOAN NUMBER 8886-LB
oan Agreement
(Additional Loan for Greater Beirut Water Supply Project)
and Original Financing, as amended
between
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 0 
, 2019
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 8886-LB
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated 
H,R 
,2 
2019, between LEBANESE
REPUBLIC ("Borrower") and INTER1 4TIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"), for the purpose of providing additional loan for
activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).
The Borrower and the Ba ik hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE. -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreemen 
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, 
the amount of ninety million Dollars
(USD 90,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in
Schedule I to thi5 Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) if the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitmeni Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate s the Reference Rate plus the Fixed Spread or such rate as may
apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
2.07 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
-2-
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower, through the MOEW, shall cause Respective Parts of the Project
to be carried out by CDR, and parts of the Project to be carried out by the PMU,
as further described in Sections I.A.3 and I.A.4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
each in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the
CDR Project Agrement and the BMLWE Project Agreement.
ART CLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
The CDF. Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of CDR to
perform any of its obligations under the CDR Project Agreement.
(b) 
The BM WE Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed r waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
the BML 
E to perform any of its obligations under the BMLWE Project
Agreeme t.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that any
event specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs.
ARTICL V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following, namely that
each of the CDR Subsidiary Agreement and the BMLWE Subsidiary Agreement
has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and the CDR and BMLWE
respectively.
5.02. 
The Additional I egal Matter consists of the following, namely that each of the
CDR Subsidiary Agreement and the BMLWE Subsidiary Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the CDR and BMLWE
respectively and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the CDR and BMLWE
respectively in accordance with its respective terms.
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty (180) days after the
date of this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLE VI -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Iepresentative is its Minister in charge of finance.
6.02. 
The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry Df Finance
Riad El-Solh Square
Beirut
Lebanese Republic
Facsimile:
+961 1 642 762
6.03. 
The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washinglon, D.C. 20433
United Slates of America
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFAD 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
Washing on, D.C. 
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at Beir ut, Lebanese Republic, as of the day and year first above
written.
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
By
Authorized Representative
Name: f1  
\Xc'-V&SO' 
\Y aix\
Title: q ydvg40 RY&A--
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 
k1k.N OUf
Title: 
COLL(\ \VC 
I
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to increase the provision of potable water to the
residents in the Project area within the greater Beirut region, including those in the low-
income neighborhoods of southern Beirut, and to strengthen the capacity of the BMLWE
in utility operations.
The Project consists of the Original Project Parts, as amended:
Part 1. Bulk Water Su ply Infrastructure
(a) 
Construc ion and construction supervision of bulk water supply
infrastructure consisting of:
(i) 
water tunnel conveyors, including related intake, flow regulation
and washout structures, and related vent and surge shafts and a
distribution chamber;
(ii) 
tvin transmission pipelines; and
(iii) 
water storage reservoirs.
(b) 
Design, construction, construction supervision and operation of a water
treatment plant.
(c) 
Financing of equipment associated with the bulk water supply
infrastructure including pumps and valves.
(d) 
Support t CDR for Project management related to the bulk water supply
infrastructure through the financing of consultants' services.
Part 2. Supply Reservoirs, Distribution Network and Metering
(a) 
Design, construction and construction supervision of supply reservoirs and
associated pumping stations.
(b) 
Design, construction and construction supervision of water supply
distributi n networks of pipelines across southern Beirut and parts of the
Metn, Baabda and Aley areas.
(c) 
Installation of household water meters in selected areas.
-6-
(d) 
Installation of bulk water meters at the reservoirs and distribution
chamber.
Part 3. Project Management, Utility Strengthening and National Studies
(a) 
Establish nent and operation of the PMU, including the financing of
Increme tal Operating Costs.
(b) 
Capacity building and technical assistance to strengthen BMLWE's
capacity, and MOEW's capacity for Project oversight, and financing of
consultar ts' services for the BMLWE entity audits.
(c) 
Provisior of equipment to strengthen BMLWE, such as telemetry or
supervisi n 
control 
and data acquisition 
systems, 
geographical
information system, customer information system and an international
accounting system.
(d) 
Carrying out of high priority national studies on key sector areas, such as
wastewater management, utility operations and regulation of the water,
sanitation and irrigation sectors, water resource management, water supply
augment tion and inter-basin transfers, to be selected with the agreement
of the Bank, in alignment with the priorities set forth in the Borrower's
National Water Sector Strategy.
(e) 
Financing performance-based and output contracts and their supervision
to monitor pressure, identify leakages, repair pipes and minimize water
leakage.
Part 4: Land Acquisition and Resettlement Compensation
(a) 
Implementing the Resettlement Action Plan, including, inter alia,
providing Land Acquisitions and Resettlement Compensations to
Displacei Persons.
(b) 
Monitori ig and evaluating the implementation of the Resettlement Action
Plan.
-7-
SCHEDULE2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the MOEW to maintain overall responsibility for the
Project and Project oversight and to carry out the Project. To this end, MOEW will
delegate the imp ementation of the Respective Parts of the Project described in
Section I.A.3 below to CDR, and will manage the implementation of the
Respective Parts of the Project described in Section I.A.4 below through the
BMLWE's PMU MOEW shall ensure that the Steering Committee is maintained
throughout the life of the Project, to be responsible for overall policy direction and
guidance and gen al Project supervision. The Steering Committee shall be housed
within the MOEW, chaired by the Borrower's Minister of Energy and Water, and
composed of key stakeholders, including representatives from the MOF, CDR and
BMLWE.
2. 
The Borrower s all cause the Steering Committee to maintain a secretariat,
consisting of the PMU's manager, monitoring and evaluation specialist and
administrative assistant, each with terms of reference and qualifications
satisfactory to the Bank. The Steering Committee's secretariat will be housed at
MOEW and will be responsible for monitoring general Project progress and will
report to the Minster of Energy and Water.
3. 
The Borrower, 
hrough MOEW, shall cause CDR to be responsible for:
(a) implementati n of Parts 1 (a) and 1 (c) and 4 of the Project; (b) procurement of
contracts under P rts 1 (a) and 1 (c) and 4 of the Project; (c) financial management
under Parts 1 (a) and 1 (c) and 4 of the Project, and (d) implementation of the
Resettlement Action Plan and the ESMP, including payment of Land Acquisition
and Resettlement Compensations, as further described and specified in the PIM.
4. 
The Borrower, through MOEW, shall maintain, throughout the life of the Project,
the PMU, in a form and with functions, staffing, resources, terms of reference and
qualifications sat sfactory to the Bank, and shall cause the PMU to be responsible
for (a) implemen ation of Parts 1(b), 2, and 3 of the Project; (b) procurement of
contracts under P urs 1 (b), 2, and 3 of the Project; (c) financial management under
Parts I (b), 2 and 3 of the Project; (d) monitoring and reporting on the Project, and
overall project coordination, under the supervision of MOEW; and (e) supervision
of the implementation of the Resettlement Action Plan and the ESMP, including
of the payment of Land Acquisition and Resettlement Compensations, as further
described and specified in the PIM. The PMU will be maintained within BMLWE,
-8-
with respective specialists of the PMU housed at MOEW and BMLWE, as
appropriate and as further specified in the PIM.
5. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the PMU is staffed with technical experts, including
an engineer, financial expert, and safeguard expert, each with terms of reference
and qualification satisfactory to the Bank.
6. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
PIM, the CDR Iroject Agreement, the BMLWE Project Agreement, the CDR
Subsidiary Agre 
ent, the BMLWE Subsidiary Agreement and the Procurement
Plan and shall cause each of MOEW, CDR, BMLWE and the PMU to ensure that
it does not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provision of the PIM,
the CDR Project Agreement, the BMLWE Project Agreement, the CDR Subsidiary
Agreement, the BMLWE Subsidiary Agreement or the Procurement Plan, without
prior approval of the Bank.
B. 
Subsidiary Agreements
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of CDR's Respective Parts of the Project (as set forth
in Section I.A.3 o this Agreement and further described and specified in the PIM),
the Borrower sha 1 make part of the proceeds of the Loan available to CDR under
the CDR Subsidiary Agreement, as approved by the Bank.
2. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the BMLWE's Respective Parts of the Project (as
set forth in Section I.A.4 of this Agreement and further described and specified in
the PIM), the Bcrrower shall make part of the proceeds of the Loan available to
the BMLWE un er the BMLWE Subsidiary Agreement as approved by the Bank.
3. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the CDR Subsidiary Agreement and
the BMLWE Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the CDR Subsidiary Agreement, or the BMLWE Subsidiary Agreement
or any of their respective provisions.
C. 
Performance Based Contract
For purposes of carrying out Part 3(e) of the Project, the Recipient shall, through MOEW,
cause the BMLWE to select and enter into a Performance Based Contract with the PBC
Contractor, with terms of reference, experience and qualifications acceptable to the Bank,
which shall be responsible for executing the Performance Based Contract under Part 3(e)
of the Project. The term, of the Performance Based Contract shall be acceptable to the
Bank, and shall include, i ter alia:
-9-
1. 
BLMWE's obligation to pay the PBC Contractor, upon a verified achievement of
the performance indicators, at the values established in the Performance Based
Contract, as verif ed by the supervising engineer employed by the BLMWE.
2. 
PBC Contractor's obligation to deliver services aimed at overall water loss
reduction, in accirdance with the criteria further described in the Performance
Based Contract.
3. 
BLMWE's right to suspend or terminate the Performance Based Contract upon the
PBC Contractor's failure to perform any of its obligations under the Performance
Based Contract.
D. 
Safeguards
1 .
The Borrower, through the MOEW, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in
accordance with the ESMP and the Resettlement Action Plan and shall not amend,
suspend, abroga e, repeal or waive any provision of the ESMP and the
Resettlement Act on Plan without prior approval of the Bank. The Borrower shall
ensure that each f the MOEW, CDR, the PMU and BMLWE does not amend,
suspend, abroga e, repeal or waive any provision of the ESMP and the
Resettlement Ac on Plan without prior approval of the Bank.
2. 
Without limitatio i upon the foregoing, the Borrower, through MOEW, shall:
(a) 
prior to commencing any civil works for any activity under the Project
involving involuntary resettlement or involuntary acquisition of land,
prepare, adopt, disclose and implement appropriate RAP or RAPs, as the
case may be, for compensation or resettlement, such RAP or RAPs to be
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank;
(b) 
ensure that: (i) sufficient funds are made available for the implementation
of the RAP, including for Land Acquisition and Resettlement
Compensations related to the Project pursuant to the clearances of a right
of way; and (ii) payment of said RAP Land Acquisition and Resettlement
Compensations is made in a timely fashion and in a manner acceptable to
the Bank
(c) 
cause the PMU to ensure that supervision of implementation and
compliance with the ESMP and the Resettlement Action Plan is carried
out in a t mely manner acceptable to the Bank.
(d) 
cause PVU to: (i) maintain throughout the period of implementation of the
Project, a grievance redress mechanism, satisfactory to the Bank, for the
management of complaints related to the Project; and (ii) ensure that
adequate measures, satisfactory to the Bank, are put in place to ensure that
-10-
all aspects of Project implementation are carried out in an inclusive, non-
discriminatory and participatory manner.
Section H. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
The Borrower shall cause the PMU to furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later
than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, covering the calendar quarter.
Section HI. 
Withdraal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
Without limitatio iupon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and
in accordance w th the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter the
Borrower may vithdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible
Expenditures; anc (b) pay: (i) the Front-end Fee; and (ii) each Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collir premium; in the amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the
percentage set fo th against each Category as set forth in the table in paragraph 2
below:
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of he proceeds of the Loan ("Category"), the allocation of the
amounts of the LDan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
-ll-
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Category 
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works and 
10,000,000 
100%
consultants' services for
Part 1 (a)(i) and (ii of
the Project
(2) Goods, works and 
44,775,000 
100%
consultants' services for
Part 1 (a)(iii) of the
Project
(3) Goods, works, 
1,000,000 
100%
consultants' services,
Training, audit, and
Incremental Operating
Costs for Part 3(a), (b),
(c), and (d) of the
Project
(4) Goods, works, 
19,000,000 
100%
consultants' servic es,
Training, audit, and
Incremental Operating
Costs for Part 3(e) of the
Project
(5) Land and Involuntary 
15,000,000 
100%
Resettlement Payments
for Part 4 of the project
(6) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar 
Section 4.05(c) of the General
Premium. 
Conditions
(7) Front End Fee 
225,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance with
Section 3.01(a) of the General
Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
90,000,000
-12-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding :he provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for:
(a) 
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $15,000,000 for
Eligible Expenditures under Category 5, may be made for payments,
previously agreed with the Bank, made prior to this date but on or after
June 15, 2018, for Eligible Expenditures; or
(b) 
under Category 1 and Category 3 of this Additional Financing until all
proceeds under the Original Financing Agreement Category 
1 and
Category 5, respectively, have been fully disbursed.
2. 
The Closing Date is November 30, 2020.
- 13 
SCHEDULE3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share").
Installment Share
Principal Payi ent Date 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each February 15 an( August 15
Beginning Augut 15, 2022 
4.17%
through August 5, 2033
On February 15, 2034 
4.09%
- 14 
SCHEDULE4
Ame dments to the Original Loan Agreement
The Borrower and the World Bank hereby agree to amend the Original Loan Agreement
to read as follows:
1. 
Schedule 1 to the Original Loan Agreement is hereby amended and replaced in
its entirety by Scl edule 1 to this Agreement.
2. 
The table set forth in Section IV.A.2 to the Agreement is modified as follows:
Percentage of
Amount of the 
Expenditures to be
Category 
Loan 
financed
Allocated 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(expressed in USD)
(1) Goods, works and 
185,000,000 
100%
consultants' services for
Parts 1(a)(i), 1(a)(ii) and 1(c)
of the Project
(2) Goods, works and 
2,550,000 
5%
consultants' services for Part
1(b) of the Project
(3) Goods, works and 
1,850,000 
2.5%
consultants' services for
Parts 2(a) and (b) of he
Project
(4) Goods, works and 
200,000 
5%
consultants' services for
Parts 2 (c) and (d) of the
Project
(5) Goods, and consultants' 
9,900,000 
66%
services Training, audit, and
Incremental Operati g Costs
for Part 3(a), 3(b), 3(c) and
3(d)
(6) Front-end Fee 
500,000 
Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
-15-
Percentage of
Amount of the 
Expenditures to be
Category 
Loan 
financed
Allocated 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(expressed in USD)
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(7) Premia for Interest Rate 
Amount payable pursuant
Caps and Interest Rate 
0 
to Section 2.07(c) of this
Collars 
Agreement in accordance
with Section 4.05(c) of the
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
200,000,000
3. 
Schedule 2 to the Original Loan Agreement, Section IV.B(2) is hereby amended
and replaced in it; entirety as follows:
"2. 
The Clos ng Date is November 30, 2020."
4. 
The Definitions under Appendix to the Original Loan Agreement are hereby
amended, as appl cable, to read as per Appendix 2 to this Agreement.
- 16-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix
to the General C nditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15 2006, and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
2. 
"BMLWE" mea s the Borrower's Beirut Mount Lebanon Water Establishment,
the Project Implementing Entity charged with implementation of parts of the
Project through the PMU as described in Section I.A.4 of this Agreement, a public
authority established and operating pursuant to the Law No.221 (2000) dated
May 29, 2000, anI Law No.377 (2001) dated December 14, 2001, or any successor
thereto.
3. 
"BMLWE Legislition" means Law No. 221 (2000) dated May 29, 2000, and Law
No.377 (2001) dted December 14, 2001.
4. 
"BMLWE Project Agreement" means the Project Agreement between BMLWE
and the Bank.
5. 
"BMLWE Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section
I.B.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make
part of the proceeds of the Loan available to BMLWE.
6. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section III of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
7. 
"CDR" means the Borrower's Council for Development and Reconstruction, the
Project Implementing Entity charged with implementation of parts of the Project
as described in Section I.A.3 of this Agreement, a public authority established and
operating pursuant to the Legislative Decree No. 5, dated January 31, 1977 and
Law No. 295 dated April 3, 2001, or any successor thereto.
8. 
"CDR Legislation" means Legislative Decree No. 5, dated January 31, 1977 and
Law No. 295 dated April 3, 2001.
9. 
"CDR Project Agreement" means the Project Agreement between CDR and the
Bank.
10. 
"CDR Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.B.1 of
Schedule 2 to thi; Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make part of
the proceeds of tLe Loan available to CDR.
-17-
11. 
"Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in May 2004 and
revised in October 2006, and May 2010.
12. 
"Displaced Person" means a person who, on account of the execution of the
Project, has expe ienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land resulting in: (A) relocation or loss of
shelter; (B) loss o assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or means
of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; or (ii) the
involuntary rest ction to access legally designated parks and protected areas,
resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person.
13. 
"Environmental and Social Impact Assessment" or "ESIA" means the Borrower's
environmental and social impact assessment, in form and substance satisfactory to
the Bank, dated August 6, 2010, as amended on May 2, 2018, including, inter alia:
(i) the identificatiDn and assessment of potential environmental and social impacts
of activities to be carried out under the Project; (ii) an evaluation of alternative
measures; and (ii) the ESMP (as hereinafter defined) detailing the appropriate
mitigation, monitoring, institutional and management measures required for the
implementation of the Project with a view to ensuring compliance of the activities
referred to in sub-paragraph (i) herein with said measures and to eliminating
adverse environmental and social impacts, offsetting such impacts, or reducing
them to acceptable levels.
14. 
"ESMP" means the Borrower's environmental and social management plan for the
Project dated Au,ust 6, 2010, as amended on May 2, 2018, incorporated in the
ESIA, as such pl n may be updated from time to time by agreement between the
Borrower and the Bank, setting forth the mitigating, monitoring and institutional
measures to be taken during the implementation and operation of the Project to
offset or reduce adverse environmental and social impacts to levels acceptable to
the Bank.
15. 
"General Condit ons" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project
Financing", dated July 14, 2017, with the modifications set forth in Section II of
this Appendix.
16. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the PMU's reasonable and necessary
incremental expenditures related to the management and implementation of the
Project including on account of communication costs, maintenance, insurance and
fuel of vehicles and equipment; travel costs, including accommodations and per
diem, maintenance and spare parts of equipment; miscellaneous utilities; stationary
and office supplies, and advertisement costs, translation and interpretation
services, office s:ationary and consumables expenses based on periodic budgets
-18-
acceptable to the Bank, but excluding salaries or honoraria of officials and
employees of the Borrower's civil services.
17. 
"Land Acquisitio i & Resettlement Compensations" means the compensations and
other assistance to be paid to Displaced Persons pursuant to the RAP, as agreed
with the Bank, on account of: (i) the taking of their land and/or their compulsory
relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) their loss of assets or access to assets in connection
with the above-re erred land takings/relocations; (iii) the loss of income sources or
means of liveliho x, whether or not such person must move to another location; or
(iv) the involuntary restriction or access to legally designated parks and protected
areas, resulting it adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person.
18. 
"MOF" means th: Borrower's Ministry of Finance or any successor thereof.
19. 
"MOEW" means the Borrower's Ministry of Energy and Water or any successor
thereof.
20. 
"Original Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement for the Greater Beirut
Water Supply Pr ect between the Borrower and the World Bank, dated February
8, 2012, (Loan Number: 7967-LE).
21. 
"Original Project" means the Project described in Schedule I to the Original Loan
Agreement.
22. 
"Performance Based Contract" means a service agreement entered the Project
Implementing Ertity and a PBC Contractor, in accordance with Section C of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
23. 
"PBC Contracto' means a physical or legal person selected to perform
performance based contract services aimed at reducing water loss under Part 3(e)
of the Project.
24. 
"PIM" means the operations manual for the Project, dated September 30, 2010,
and referred to ir Section I.A.7 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, describing and
setting forth procedures for implementation of the Project and institutional
arrangements, consistent with the provisions of this Agreement and with
applicable laws and regulations and including, among other things, timetables of
actions required to be carried out under the Project, the respective roles and
responsibilities o the agencies involved in the implementation of the Project, the
fiduciary, technical and operational aspects and procedures for implementation of
the Project, including the financial management procedures 
(budgeting,
accounting and internal control, disbursement and flow of funds, financial
reporting, annual reports, internal and external audit arrangements procedures and
including the P oject specific chart of accounts), procurement procedures,
monitoring and evaluation arrangements, details for the implementation of the
-19-
Resettlement Action Plan and the ESMP and other fiduciary and administrative
arrangements anc necessary terms of reference, as the same may be amended from
time to time by agreement with the Bank.
25. 
"PMU" means thp project management unit established pursuant to the MOEW's
administrative decision dated September 29, 2010, charged with implementation
of Respective Par ts of the Project as described in Section I.A.4 of this Agreement,
and operating witin BMLWE with respective specialists being housed at MOEW
and BMLWE, as appropriate and as further specified in the PIM.
26. 
"Procurement Regulations" means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix
to the General qonditions, the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF
Borrowers", dated July 2016, revised November 2017.
27. 
"Procurement P 
"means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated
September 29, 20 10, as the same shall be updated from time to time.
28. 
"Resettlement Action Plan", or "RAP" means the Borrower's Resettlement Action
Plan dated August 6, 2010, and amended May 2, 2018 approved by the Bank,
setting forth, inter alia, the compensation entitlement, resettlement assistance,
institutional arrangements, implementation program, grievance mechanism,
monitoring mechanism and cost estimates for the resettlement and rehabilitation
of people affected by the implementation of the Project, disclosed locally and
through the Bank's InfoShop.
29. 
"Steering Committee" means the steering committee established and maintained
by the MOEW arid referred to in Section I. A. 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
housed within the MOEW, chaired by the Borrower's Minister for Energy and
Water, and composed of key stakeholders including representatives from the MoF,
CDR and BMLWE.
30. 
"Training" mean s Project related study tours, training courses, seminars,
workshops and other training activities, not included under service providers'
contracts, includipg costs of training materials, space and equipment rental, travel,
accommodation a nd per diem costs of trainees and trainers, trainers' fees, and other
training related ir iscellaneous costs.
