OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8854-IN
Loan Agreement
(National Rural Economic Transformation Project 
Additional Financing for the National Rural Livelihoods Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT 
dated 
as 
of the 
Signature 
Date between 
INDIA 
("Borrower") 
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). for the
purpose of providing additional financing for activities related to the Original Project (as defined
in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAIL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, the Original Financing
Agreement (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement), or the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE H -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of two hundred and fifty million
dollars (USD 250,000.000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through
a Currency Conversion ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule
I to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0 25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
2.08 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit (as
said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of this Section), the Borrower
shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of one half of one percent (0.5%) per annum
of the Allocated Excess Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this
Section) for each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The Exposure Surcharge (if any) shall
be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during which
the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit, the product of:
(A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the ratio of all (or, if the Bank
so determines, a portion) of the Loan to the aggregate amount of all (or the
equivalent portions) of the loans made by the Bank to the Borrower and to
other borrowers guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an
exposure surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined
from time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
'Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the Bank's
financial exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded, would subject the
Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined from time to time by the
Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total financial
exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
101. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project through the Ministry of Rural Development (MORD),
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
4.02. For purposes of Section 9.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the obligations
of the Borrower under this Agreement (other than those providing for payment obligations)
shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. The Borrower's Representative is any of the following: The Secretary, the Additional
Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department
of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance.
5.02. For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) the Borrower's address is:
Secretary of the Government of India
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
New Delhi, India
(b) the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile: 
E-mail.
91-11-23095071 
jsmi-dea(cnic.in
5 03. For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions
(a) the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
18 18 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile:
1-202-477-6391
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
INDIA
By
Athorized Representative
Name:
Title:
Date:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FO
RECONSTRUCTION AND 
'E 
NT
By
Auth izRepresentative
Name: 
H1SWA-*4
Title: 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_k)V
Date: 
1fA~
SCHEDULE1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to establish efficient and effective institutional platforms of
the rural poor to enable them to increase household income through sustainable livelihood
enhancements, and improved access to financial and selected public services.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: 
Institutional and Human Capacity Development
Facilitate the provision of high quality technical assistance in the field of rural
livelihoods promotion by:
1. 
establishing a team of high quality professionals and agencies to provide technical
assistance to Participating States in various thematic areas, including inter alia, community
mobilization, livelihood promotion, financial inclusion, human resource management,
monitoring and evaluation, environment management, convergence and fiduciary
management.
2. 
supporting the development of partnerships with well-established training and research
institutions in the field of rural development throughout India to deliver focused training
programs for successful implementation of the Project and related activities in the rural
development sector.
Part 2: 
State Livelihood Support
Provision of support to the Participating States to establish the necessary institutional
architecture for the implementation of Project activities, including Investment Support to
Beneficiary Institutions, including:
I. 
supporting the formation of autonomous and professionally managed project missions at
the state-level comprised of multi-disciplinary teams with expertise in, inter alia: social
mobilization, institution building, capacity building, microfinance, farm and non-farm
livelihoods, and job employment.
2. 
supporting the identification, selection, and mobilization of Beneficiary Institutions.
3. 
providing Investment Support to Beneficiary Institutions to enable them to undertake
productive livelihood enhancing initiatives and economic activities.
4. 
supporting activities that have potential for scaling-up and replication including, inter alia,
health and nutrition, green opportunities, resilience climate change. value-chain
development, skills development and usage of new technologies for financial inclusion.
Part 3: 
Innovation and Partnership Support
Establishment of an institutional mechanism to identify, nurture and support innovative
ideas from across India to address the livelihood and economic needs of the rural poor,
including:
L 
supporting selected innovations identified through development marketplace-type forums
that have the potential to be scaled-up.
2. 
supporting the development of a network of grassroots innovators and social entrepreneurs
at state and national level.
3. 
developing and supporting effective partnerships with the private sector, foundations,
public corporations and civil society organizations on livelihoods and economic
development for the rural poor.
Part 4: 
Proiect Implementation Support
Establishing an effective project management unit at the national level that develops key
systems and processes for coordination and management of the Project,
including:
1. 
strengthening the various functions of the NMMUNRLPS to enable it to manage, deliver
and support all aspects of the Project.
2. 
developing a comprehensive and robust monitoring and evaluation system, including an
integrated management information system.
3. 
developing a responsive governance and accountability mechanism to ensure that all
aspects of the Project shall be implemented in accordance with the provisions of this
Agreement.
4. 
establishing a variety of products and services to enhance the generation and use of
knowledge management activities as a key tool for enhancing the quality of Project
implementation.
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section L Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
At the Central Level
1I 
Without linutation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement. the Borrower,
through MORD, shall, and shall cause each Participating State to:
(a) 
carry out the Project in accordance with the PIP, the Financial Management
Manual, the Procurement Manual, the Procurement Plan, the EMF and the SMF
and
(b) 
not amend or waive any provision of the PIP, the Financial Management Manual,
the Procurement Manual, the Procurement Plan, . the EMF and the SMF, except
as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree. 
In the event of a conflict
between the provisions of the PIP and those of this Financing Agreement, the
provisions of the latter shall prevail.
2. 
The Borrower shall protect the interests of the Bank to accomplish the purposes of the
Financing.
3. 
The Borrower, through MORD, shall:
(a) 
maintain, at all times during Project implementation, a national mission
management unit, with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank,
including, inter alia. the responsibility to coordinate and monitor the carrying out
of the Project;
(b) 
staff the NMMU at all times during Project implementation. led by a mission
director and, assisted by adequate professional and administrative staff (including
procurement. 
financial 
management, 
technical, environmental 
and social
development specialists), in numbers and with experience and qualifications, and
operating under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; and
(c) 
maintain, at all times during Project implementation, the PIP.
At the State Level
4. 
The Borrower, through MORD shall, and shall cause each Participating State to:
(a) 
maintain, at all times during Project implementation, a State Rural Livelihood
Mission, with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, including,
inter alia, the responsibility to coordinate and monitor the carrying out of the
Project at the State level;
(b) 
staff the SRLM at all times during Project implementation, led by a state mission
director, assisted by adequate professional and administrative staff (including
procurement, financial management. 
technical, 
environmental 
and social
development specialists), in numbers and with experience and qualifications, and
operating under terms of reference satisfactory to the Banic and
(c) 
maintain., at all times during Project implementation, the PIP.
B. 
Terms and Conditions Governing Investment Support
1. 
The Borrower, through MORD, shall cause each Participating State to make an Investment
Support to a Beneficiary Institution in accordance with terms and conditions approved by
the Bank set forth in the respective Federation Grant Agreement, including those set forth
in the PIP, which shall include, inter alia, the obligation of each Participating State to:
(a) 
obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and those of the Borrower, the Bank
and the respective Participating State, including the right to (i) suspend or
terminate the right of the Beneficiary Institution to use Investment Support
proceeds, and (ii) take all necessary actions to obtain a refund of all or any part of
the amount of Investment Support proceeds then withdrawn, upon the Beneficiary
Institution's failure to perform any of its obligations under the Federation Grant
Agreement;
(b) 
take all necessary steps to ensure that the Beneficiary Institution shall carry out its
obligations under its Federation Grant Agreement with due diligence and
efficiency and pursuant to the criteria and procedures set forth in the PIP, and in
accordance with the provisions of the EMF. the SMF, the Procurement Regulations
and the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
(c 
promptly release the Investment Support to the Beneficiary Institutions upon
approval of a Federation Livelihood Plan or Business Plan.
2. 
The Borrower, through MORD. shall cause each Participating State to exercise its rights
under each Federation Grant Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower. the Bank and each Participating State and to accomplish the purposes of the
Financing.
3. 
The Borrower, through MORD, shall cause each Participating State to take all necessary
steps to ensure that each Beneficiary Institution shall be obligated, under its respective
Federation Grant Agreement, to:
(a) 
maintain a financial management system and prepare financial statements in
accordance with the procedures set forth in the PIP, so as to adequately reflect the
operations carried out with the proceeds of the Investment Support;
(b) 
enable the Borrower, through MORD, the Bank and the respective Participating
State to inspect the activities, facilities andior operations financed out of the
Investment Support proceeds, and any relevant records and documents; and
(c) 
prepare and furnish to the Borrower, through MORD, the Bank and the respective
Participating State such information as the Borrower, through MORD, the Bank or
the respective Participating State shall reasonably request.
C. 
Environmental and Social Safeguards
The Borrower, through MORD, shall, and shall cause each Participating State to:
1 
carry out the Project in accordance with the agreed EMF and the SMF in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank;
2. 
include as part of the report referred to in Section II of this Schedule 2 progress reports on
compliance with social and environmental safeguard measures under the Project, detailing
measures taken in furtherance of the EMF and the SMF, and of conditions, if any, which
interfere or threaten to interfere with the smooth implementation of the EMF and SMF, and
remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such conditions;
3. 
ensure that the Project is implemented, as far as reasonably practicable, using exclusively
land free from encroachments or other encumbrances, and without recourse to compulsory
acquisition of private land, forcible eviction or involuntary resettlement of persons; and
4. 
(a) 
no later than thirty (30) months after the Effective Date, carry out an independent
audit of the implementation of the EMF and the SMF;
(b) 
prepare and furnish a report on the results of each said audit to the Bank within
ninety (90) days from the completion of such audit; and
(c) 
continue implementing the Project in accordance with the recommendations of
said report, as agreed to between the Borrower and the Bank.
Section I. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than forty-five (45)
days after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar semester.
Section m. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. General
I. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in
accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible Expenditures; and (b) pay: i) the
Front-end Fee; and (ii) each Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar premium; in the
amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category of
the following table:
Category 
Amount of the Financing 
Percentage of
Allocated (expressed in 
Expenditures to be
USD) 
Financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non-consulting
' 
services, consultants' services, and
operating costs incurred under Parts 
67,875,000 
100%
1. 3 and 4 of the Project
(2) Goods, works, non-consulting
serv ices, consultants' services,
operating costs and investment 
42%
support incurred under Part 2 of the 
181,500,000
Project
Amount payable
(3) Front-end Fee 
625,000 
pursuant to Section 2.03
of this Agreement in
accordance with Section
2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions
(4) Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
-0- 
Amount due pursuant to
Collar premium 
Section 4.05 (c) of the
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
250,000,000
B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
I. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made for payments
made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed $50,000,000 may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after
January 1. 2018. for Eligible Expenditures
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2023.
SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date ("Installment Share").
Level Principal Repayments
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
On each January 15 and July 15
Beginning July 15, 2023 
5%
through January 15, 2033
APPENDIX
Definitions
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption
in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006
and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
2. 
"Beneficiary Institution" means a Federation (as hereinafter defined) which has been
selected by a Participating State (as hereinafter defined), pursuant to the selection criteria
set out in the PIP (as hereinafter defined), to receive an Investment Support (as hereinafter
defined) to finance, in whole or in part, the carrying out of a Federation Livelihood or
Business Plan (as hereinafter defined) pursuant to a Federation Grant Agreement (as
hereinafter defined) and in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in Section
.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the PIP (as hereinafter defined).
3. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section II.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
4. 
"EMF" means MORD's environmental management framework, acceptable to the Bank,
dated March 25, 2011, and set forth as Annex 3 to the PIP (as hereinafter defined), which
provides for the principles and procedures governing the environmental management,
mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures to be undertaken in the carrying out of
the Project, as such framework may be amended from time to time by agreement between
the Borrower and the Bank.
5. 
"Federation" means a group comprised of poor rural households, duly established pursuant
to respective PIP, managed by an executive committee elected by said group, which may
receive an Investment Support under Part B of the Project.
6. 
"Federation 
Grant 
Agreement" 
means 
the 
grant 
agreement 
referred 
to 
in
Section I.B. I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, entered into between a Participating State
and a Beneficiary Institution, as such agreement may be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
7. 
"Federation Livelihood or Business Plan" means a plan of Federation livelihood activities,
prepared by a Beneficiary Institution and approved by the relevant Participating State,
which consists, inter alia, of an aggregation of household investment plans for financing
the purchase of goods. works and services needed to create assets, generate household
income, develop technical skills, access educational and health services and meet specific
household consumption needs.
8 
"Financial 
Management Manual" means MORD's financial management manual,
acceptable to the Bank, dated March 25, 2011, and set forth as Annex I to the PIP (as
hereinafter defined), which provides for the financial management and institutional
arrangements and obligations under the Project, as such manual may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
9. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing", dated July 14,
2017.
10 
"Investment Support" means a grant made or proposed to be made by a Participating State
(as hereinafter defined), out of the proceeds of the Financing allocated from time to time
to Part B of the Project, to a Beneficiary Institufion to finance, in whole or in part, the
technical assistance needs of a Federation, or a Federation Livelihood or Business Plan (as
hereinafter defined), all in accordance with the selection criteria and procedures set forth
in the PIP (as hereinafter defined) and the provisions set forth in Section I.B of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
11. 
"Key Performance Indicators" means the indicators for monitoring and evaluating progress
towards the attainment of Project objectives.
12. 
"MORD" means the Borrower's Ministry of Rural Development, or any successor thereto.
13. 
"NMMU" means the National Mission Management Unit, referred to in Section LA.3(a)
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, to be maintained by MORD for the purpose of providing
Project management and support throughout project implementation.
14. 
"Original Project" means the National Rural Livelihoods Project" as described in Schedule
I to the Original Financing Agreement".
15. 
"Participating State" means a Borrower's state to be selected on the basis of criteria set
forth in the PIP (as hereinafter defined), including as part of said criteria, the obligation of
said Participating State to establish as SRLM (as hereinafter defined), to assist the
Borrower, through MORD, in the implementation of the Project.
16. 
"PIP" means the Project Implementation Plan, including all annexes thereto, acceptable to
the Bank, dated March 25, 2011 (as amended), which describes detailed Project
implementation and institutional arrangements, including procedures and criteria for the
selection, appraisal and implementation of Federation Livelihood or Business Plans,
including the relevant audit requirements for each of the Participating States (as necessary);
and is comprised of, among others, the EMF, the Financial Management Manual,, the Key
Performance Indicators, the Procurement Manual (as hereinafter defined) and the SMF (as
hereinafter defined), as such plan may be amended from time to time by agreement between
the Borrower and the Bank.
17. 
"Procurement Manual" means the Procurement Manual set forth as Annex 2 to the PIP,
which manual sets out the procurement management and institutional arrangements and
obligations under the Project, as such manual may be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
18. 
"Procurement Regulations" means the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF
Borrowers", dated July 2016, revised November 2017
19. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the date of the Loan
Agreement" in the General Conditions.
20. 
"SMF" means MORD's Social Management Framework set forth in the PIP, which
provides for principles and procedures governing the social management, including
mitigation and adaptive measures to offset, reduce to acceptable levels, or eliminate, any
adverse social impact under the Project, as such SMF may be amended from time to time
by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
21, 
"SMivU' means the State Mission Management Unit, referred to in Section LA.4 (a) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, to be maintained by each Participating State for the purpose
of providing Project management and support, at the state level, throughout project
implementation.
22. 
"SRLM" means the State Rural Livelihood Mission, referred to in Section I.A.4 (a) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, to be maintained by each Participating State for the purpose
of providing Project management and support, at the state level, throughout project
implementation.
