OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8928-IN
Loan Agreement
(Uttarakhand Public Financial Management Strengthening Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between INDIA ("Borrower") and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II -
LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of thirty one million, five hundred
and eighty thousand Dollars (USD 31,580,000) as such amount may be converted from
time to time through a Currency Conversion ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2 02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0 25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions,
2.06 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The prncipal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
2.08 
(a) 
If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit (as
said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of this Section), the
Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of one half of one percent
(0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-
paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for each said day ("Exposure Surcharge"). The
Exposure Surcharge (if any) shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each
Payment Date.
-2-
(b) 
For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set forth below:
(i) 
"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during which
the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit, the product of:
(A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the ratio of all (or, if the Bank
so determines, a portion) of the Loan to the aggregate amount of all (or the
equivalent portions) of the loans made by the Bank to the Borrower, and
to other borrowers guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an
exposure surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined
from time to time by the Bank.
(ii) 
"Standard Exposure Limit" means the standard limit on the Bank's
financial exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded, would subject the
Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined from time to time by the
Bank.
(iii) 
"Total Exposure" means for any given day, the Bank's total financial
exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Borrower's State of Uttarakhand
("Project Implementing Entity") with the assistance of the Implementing Agency(ies) in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the Project
Agreement.
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project
is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE V -
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5 01 
The Borrower's Representative is any of the following officials. acting severally; the
Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, or any Director, Deputy Secretary, or
Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower.
-3-
5.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) the Borrower's address is:
Secretary
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
Government of India
North Block
New Delhi 110 001, India; and
(b) the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile: 
E-mail.
-91-11-2309 2247 
jsmi-dea@nic.in
5.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Facsimile:
1-202-477-6391
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
INDIA
By
A 
orized Representative
Name:
Title: 
A-bSr"O,-v A-L_
Date: 
J&
6
s
-4-
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Byy 
_
Authorized Representative
Name: 
Title: 
/^_4_0_6//Zc- cToC, /AJ,A
Date: 
ups .23 20/
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to enhance accountability in public finances and increase
effectiveness of revenue management systems in Uttarakhand.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Strengthening the Public Financial Management Functions
(a) Supporting the State-wide roll-out of the IFMIS and the HRMIS
Activities to be supported of the Directorate of Treasuries. Pensions and Entitlements with
the support of DDOs, include: (i) carrying out training assessments and providing support
for change management for roll-out of new systems; (ii) carrying out systems and security
audit and functional review; (iii) providing necessary hardware, devices, connectivity, and
expanding the existing state data center to support the roll-out and maintenance of IFMIS
and HURMIS and setting up a help desk; (iv) digitizing pension data and service records,
developing a registry for employee records and vouchers; and (v) carrying out
improvements in budget and contract award documentation including facilitating access to
the public.
(b) Strengthening the Cash and Debt Management Framework
Activities to be supported of the Finance Department include: (i) building up institutional
capacities including through setting up and staffing of a cash and debt management cell in
the Finance Department (with the corresponding resident advisor) and including the
provision of training; (ii) improving technical capacities in DSA and MTDS, (iii)
developing and implementing Cash and Borrowing Plans; (iv) carrying out an annual
publication of Debt Statistical Bulletin; (iv) setting up of relevant electronic databases
(debts, investment, equity, loans, and advances to state agencies); (v) implementing a debt
recording and management system; and (vi) developing a Debt Procedures Manual.
(c) Strengthening Planning and Budgeting Process
Activities to be supported of the Finance Department and the Planning Department
include: (i) building up institutional capacities including through the preparation and
implementation of medium-term fiscal framework and MTEF; (ii) carrying out expenditure
analyses, and rationalizing schemes; (iii) strengthening the preparation of outcome and
gender focused budgets; (iv) institutionalizing program and schemes' performance
evaluation and supporting software and strengthening evaluation cell; and (v) training and
capacity building of staff in relevant departments including in analytics.
(d) Strengthening capital projects appraisal framework and monitoring of high value projects
Activities to be supported of the Finance Department and the Planning Department include:
(i) strengthening the capacity to estimate fiscal space; (ii) strengthening project preparation
-6-
including the developing and/or strengthening of project appraisal criteria, screening
guidelines, and procedures; (iii) strengthening project preparation and monitoring capacity
for high value projects; and (iv) capacity building of the Finance and Planning
Departments.
(e) Strengthening efectiveness of State Public Audit Institutions
Activities to be supported of the Audit Directorate and the Audit Cell include: (i)
developing institutional capacities through audit manuals and establishing quality
assurance mechanism; (ii) capacity building of audit staff, DDOs and private auditors in
OAMS and audit skills through training and certification of identified staff of the Audit
Directorate and the Audit Cell; and (iii) providing necessary IT systems, hardware and
connectivity and security audits.
(f) Strengthening Procurement Framework and Transparency
Activities to be supported of the e-Procurement Cell and the Finance Department include:
(i) supporting the development of SBDs and improvement in procurement rules; (ii)
building technical capacities in the procurement process including enabling the linking of
the e-procurement portal with [FMIS, (iii) improving transparency including through a
GR_M; (iv) strengthening the procurement framework; and (v) capacity building in public
procurement through development of training modules.
(g) Institutionahzzng PFM training and improving PFM capacity in the State
Activities to be supported of CTRFA include: (i) institutionalizing training and capacity
building of CTRFA towards becoming a center for excellence for PFM training (ii)
carrying of training needs assessments and development of training strategy and curriculum
and conducting assessments and studies in PFM and (iii) carrying out capacity building
activities in PFM including through collaboration with national/international institutions.
Part 2: Strengthening Revenue Management Systems
(a) Strengthening e-Governance in Excise Department
Activities to be supported of Excise Department include: (i) supporting studies for policy
interventions related to Excise Department through IT enablement; (ii) upgrading IT
systems including designing an enhanced e-Governance system to support compliance with
the state's excise policy; and (iii) capacity building and training of excise department
officials
(b) 
Strengthening Property Tax administration in participating LIBs
Activities to be supported of Urban Development Directorate, include: (i) rolling-out self-
assessment system for property tax and automating property tax collections; (ii) carrying
out surveys and updating/digitizing property databases/records including GIS mapping and
household surveys; (iii) institutional strengthening including setting up a GIS Cell and
carrying out policy analysis, studies, training and capacity building; (iv) carrying out
-7-
studies to improve tax revenue including studies on setting up a municipal revenue board,
collection mechanisms, and (vi) implementing a state-level dashboard on property tax.
(c) Roadmap for improving capacity for Sectoral Revenue Management Systems
A. Activities to be supported of GMVN include: (i) strengthening its revenue systems
through consultancies in the areas of business process engineering for existing policies,
procedures, and practices to bring in efficient processes 
(ii) implementing
computerized applications for automating entire functions; (iii) developing a roadmap
for its tounsm related assets and implementing the roadmap if feasible; and (tv)
preparing business plan/s and reviewing private public partnership/leasing models.
B. Activities to be supported of Transport Corporation include : (i) conducting relevant
analyses and plans such as a gap analysis, BPR and implementing such plans where
feasible; (ii) conducting studies on revenue enhancement, and mechanisms to leverage
technology; and (iii) carrying out an inter-state and international comparative study
with regards to provision of transport services and revenue generation.
(d) Studies for enhancing Own Source Revenue
Activities to be supported of the Finance Department with respective departments include:
providing technical assistance for strengthening institutional capacities of selected
Implementing Agency(ies) through (i) institutional assessments and conducting analytical
work relating to improvement of revenue management systems and practices for revenue
enhancement of the Implementing Agency(ies); (ii) carrying out assessment of the existing
public private partnership framework and providing support to strengthen the framework;
(iii) training and capacity building of the Commercial Tax Department; and (iv) carrying
out studies in the areas of Stamps registration and other non-tax revenues.
Part 3: Strengthening PFM in Urban Local Bodies and State Owned Enterprises
ta) Strengthening accounting and financial reporting systems in ULBs
Activities to be supported of Urban Development Directorate with ULBs shall include: (i)
revising the UMAM, (ii) developing financial management guidance; (ii) deploying
computerized double-entry accrual-based accounting system; (iii) providing training and
capacity building of staff of the directorate and ULBs, and handholding support; (iv)
supporting credit rating of ULBs; and (v) providing necessary IT support and connectivity.
(b) Strengthening PFM and Corporate Governance in selected State Owned Enterprises
Activities to be supported of select State Owned Enterprise(s) shall include: (i) carrying
out institutional assessments and studies and development of performance monitoring
framework and framework for management of fiscal risks; (ii) training and capacity
building; and (iii) modernizing the financial management of such State Owned Enterprises
by leveraging IT and preparing manuals.
-8-
Part 4: Project Management and Monitoring & Evaluation
Providing: (i) financial support for the Project implementation, coordination, monitoring and
evaluation, DLI verification, audits and Incremental Operating Costs; and (ii) financial support for
the establishment and operation of the PMU, a M&E, MIS systems.
-9-
SCHEDULE2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements.
1 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the
Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity, in accordance with the Borrower's
standard arrangements for development assistance to the States of India.
2. 
Notwithstanding paragraph I above, in the event that any provision of this Agreement,
including the instructions that the Bank shall have specified pursuant to Sections 2.01(b)
or 2.04 (b) of the General Conditions, were to be found inconsistent with the Borrower's
standard arrangements for development assistance to the States of India, the provisions of
this Agreement and related instructions shall govern.
3 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to ensure that the activities under
the Project, are carried out in accordance with this Agreement, the Project Agreement and
the Project Implementation Plan, as needed.
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure the Project Implementing Entity maintains and publicizes or
causes the respective Implementing Agency(ies) to maintain and publicize the availability
of appropriate grievance redressal mechanisms, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank, to hear and determine fairly and in good faith all complaints raised in relation to the
Project, and take measures necessary to implement the determinations made by such
mechanisms in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
5. 
The Borrower shall protect its own interests and the interests of the Bank to accomplish the
objectives of the Loan.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to furnish to the Bank each
Project Report not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester,
covering the calendar semester.
Section M. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in
accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible Expenditures: (b) pay: (i) the
Front-end Fee; in the amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth
against each Category of the following table:
-10-
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) 
Goods, 
non-consulting 
7,501,050 
80%
services, consultant services,
Training 
and 
Incremental
Operating Costs for technical
assistance under Part(s) 1(c),
1(d), 1(g), 2(a), 2(c), 2 (d),
3(b) and 4 of the Project
(2) 
Eligible 
Expenditure 
24.000,000 
80 % as allocated pursuant to
Program (EEP) under Part(s) 
Schedule 4 of this agreement.
1(a), I(b), 1(e), 1(f), 2(b) and
3(a) of the Project
(3) Front-end Fee 
78,950 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 
2.03 
of 
this
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions
(4) 
Interest Rate 
Cap 
or 
0 
Amount 
due 
pursuant 
to
Interest Rate Collar premium 
Section 4.05 (c) of the General
Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
31,580,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) 
for payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed six million Dollars (USD 6,000,000) may be made
for payments made prior to this date but on or after April 1, 2018 for the Project;
or
(b) 
for EEPs under Category (2), unless and until the Borrower has:
(i) 
furnished evidence satisfactory to the Bank in accordance with the
DLI Verification Protocol set forth in the Project Implementation
Plan that the Borrower has achieved the respective DLI Targets
set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement against which
withdrawal is requested; and
(ii) 
complied with the instructions referred to in Section III.A of this
Schedule, including furnished to the Bank the applicable interim
unaudited financial reports documenting the incurrence of EEPs
during the respective Fiscal Year up to the date against which
withdrawal is requested.
-Il-
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Parts A and B. 1 (b) of this Section, the amount of the
Loan to be withdrawn under Category 2 upon the verified achievement of any DLI Target
shall not exceed the DLI Value of such DLI Target as set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement; provided. however, that any such withdrawal shall not exceed the amount of
the EEP incurred but not paid by the proceeds of the Loan at the date of submission of
such withdrawal application.
3 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs of Part B. 1(b) of this Section, with respect
to the DLI Targets for the period current at the time of any withdrawal, if the DLI Target(s)
for the subsequent period(s) has/have been partially or fully achieved in such current
period(s), the Bank may at any time, by notice to the Borrower, decide to authorize the
withdrawal of part or all of the DLI Value of the said DLI Target incurred in such current
period up to the allocated amount of such DLI Targets achieved during such current period,
and the allocated amount in the subsequent DLI Target shall be correspondingly reduced.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.1 (b) of this Section, if the Bank shall determine,
based on the evidence furnished by the Borrower under Part B. I of this Section, that any
DLI Target has not been fully achieved by its DLI Target Achievement Date and'or the
DLI Value of such DLI Target has not been fully withdrawn, the Bank may in its sole
discretion, by notice to the Borrower:
(a) 
in the case of Scalable DLIs, authorize the withdrawal of such lesser amount of
the respective DLI Value allocated to the said DLI Target which, in the opinion of
the Bank, corresponds to the extent of achievement of the said DLI Target;
(b) 
(i) withhold in whole or in part the proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said DLI
Target until such DLI Target is satisfactorily met; (ii) and/or (ii) authorize, at a
later date (prior to the Closing Date), the full release of the amounts so withheld,
if and when the Bank is satisfied that the respective DLI Target been satisfactorily
met;
(c) 
reallocate all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said DLI
Target to any other DLI Target(s); and/or
(d) 
cancel in whole or in part, the proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said DLI
Target.
5. 
Unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, in the event that (i) a reversal of a DLI Target, has
occurred in a manner that would, in the opinion of the Bank, adversely affect the
achievement of the objectives of the Project, and (ii) the said DLI Target has already been
verified using the DLI Verification Protocol and for which the corresponding
disbursements have been made by the Bank, the Borrower shall refund the disbursements
already made by the Bank for such DLI Target, promptly upon notice thereof by the Bank.
6 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2024.
-12-
SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date ("Installment Share").
Level Principal Repayments
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
On each April 15 and October 15
Beginning April 15, 2024 
8.33%
through April 15, 2029
On October 15, 2029 
8.37%
-13-
SCHEDULE 4
Disbursement-Linked Indicators (DLIs)' Disbursement-Linked Indicator Targets,
and Disbursement-Linked Indicator Values applicable to the Project
DLI 
Baseline 
DLI Targets for 
DL Targets for 
DLI Targets for 
D6l Targets for 
DLI Targets for
Year 
Year 2 
Year 3 
Year4 
Year S
DLI #1: Strengthened controls over payments, accounting and reporting (US$5.3 million)
1 
Strengthened 
(a) Stand-alone 
Payment Bills 
(a) Online 
Budget preparation, 
(a) Treasuries have 
FD has provided to
controls over 
applications for 
processed by 
payments and 
allocation and 
submitted monthly 
the public online
payments, 
treasury and 
Drawing and 
accounts of all 
distribution have 
accounts to the 
access to Budget
accounting and 
budgeting and 
Disbursing Officers 
Works departments 
been done through 
Accountant General, 
execution reports in
reporting 
manual systems in 
(DDOs), other than 
are processed 
IFMIS 
including for Works 
user friendly
Works departments 
of Works 
through IFMIS 
departments, 
formats
departments, and 
through IFMIS,
(b) Employee 
Treasuries through 
(b) Payroll 
within ten days from
service records are 
IFMIS 
processing and 
close of the calendar
manual, not linked 
approvals of all 
month
with current payroll 
departments of
database and there 
Uttarakhand have 
(b) Sevice records
are delays in 
been done through 
have been validated
processing of 
HRMIS 
for all employees,
pension data 
digitized and linked
These DLIs are not time-bound. The Fiscal Years in which they are expected to be achieved as per this Schedule are strictly for indicative purposes, These
DLIs can accordingly be met up and until the Closing Date, but in all cases subject to meeting the requirements set out iri Section Ill.B of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement. Unless otherwise specified, the DLI Target(s) where there are more than one in a FY, can be achieved separately.
-14-
DLI 
Baseline 
DLI Targets for 
DLI Targets for 
DLI Targets for 
DLI Targets for 
DLI Targets for
Year I 
Year 2 
Year 3 
Year 4 
Year 5
to Payroll module of
HRMIS.
DLI #1 Value ($) 
5,300,000 
1,000,000 
For achievement of 
1,000,000 
For achievement of 
500,000
(a) 1,000,000 
(a) 500,000
For achievement of 
For achievement of
(b) 500,000 
(b) 800,000
DLI #2: Strengthened coverage and improved timeliness of Internal Audit for high risk auditees and areas (US$3 million)
2. 
Strengthened 
(a) Audit processes 
GoUk has 
Audit coverage 
Audit coverage 
Audit coverage 
Two thematic
coverage and 
are manual and 
approved, 
increased to 20% 
increased to 40% of 
increased to 60% ot 
audits conducted2
improved 
reports issued with 
operationalized and 
of total Category A 
total Category A 
total Category A
timeliness of 
time lag of 7 months 
published the 
auditees and 
auditees and reports 
auditees and reports 
Formula
internal audit 
manuals for 
reports issued 
issued through 
issued through 
$250,000 for each
for high risk 
(b) Audit coverage 
internal audit, 
through OAMS, 
OAMS, within two 
OAMS, within two 
completed audit
auditees and 
was 10 % of total 
works audit and 
within two months 
months from 
months from
areas 
Category A auditees 
revenue audit. 
from completion of 
completion of audit 
completion of audit
(high risk auditees) 
audit
during 2016/17 
Formula: 
Formula: $25,000
Formula: 
for every percent
Thematic audits shall be pertaining to any PFM theme identified by Uttarakhand which are in 'High Risk areas'.
-15-
DL1 
Baseline 
DLI Targets for 
DLI Targets for 
DLI Targets for 
DLI Targets for 
DLI Targets for
Year I 
Year 2 
Year 3 
Year 4 
Year S
(c) Thematic audits 
$100,000 for every 
$37,500 for every 
increase over 40
arc not conducted 
percent increase 
percent increase over 
percent
over baseline 
20 percent
DLI #2 Value ($) 
3,000,000 
250,000 
1,000,000 
750,000 
500,000 
500,000
DLI #3: Enhanced transparency of key budget and procurement information (US$2 million)
3. 
Enhanced 
(a) Budget 
Online 
(a) FD has notified 
(a) FD has disclosed 
FD has provided 
N/A
transparency of 
execution reports 
portal/mobile 
the SBDs in the 
publicly: (i) action 
public access to
key budget and 
and procurement 
application set up 
Official Gazette 
taken report on 
information
procurement 
contract awards are 
and operationalised 
budget proposals foi 
electronically on at
information 
not published 
for citizens to 
(b) GRM portal for 
last completed FY, 
least 90% of
provide comments 
procurement 
(ii) Medium Tenn 
procurement
(b) Absence of 
during budget 
complaints 
Fiscal Plan in 
contracts awarded
Standard Bidding 
preparation process 
established and 
compliance with the 
over the E-
Documents 
functional 
Fiscal Responsibility 
procurement
and Budget 
threshold
(c) Limited citizen 
Management Act,
participation in 
2005, and (iii)
budgeting 
Citizen Budget
(d) GRM for 
(b) FD has published
procurement not 
budget information
established 
bilingually (in Hindi
and English) in open
____________________format.
-16-
DLI 
Baseline 
DI Targets for 
DLI Targets for 
DI Targets for 
DLI Targets for 
DLI Targets for
Year I 
Year 2 
Year 3 
Year 4 
Year 5
DLI #3 Value (S) 
2,000,000 
500,000 
For achievement of 
For achievement of 
500,000 
--
(a) 250,000 
all actions in (a)
250,000
For achievement of
(b) 250,000 
For achievement of
(b)250,000
DLI#4: Improved timeliness in preparation and publication of Annual Financial Statements of ULBs (US$3.2 million)
4. 
Improved 
(a) Accounts of 
GoUk has 
N.A 
10 ULBs have 
50 ULBs have 
70 LJLBs have
timeliness in 
ULBs are 
approved and 
prepared their AFS 
prepared their AFS 
prepared their AFS
preparation and 
maintained 
notified the revised 
from Municipal 
from MAS and 
from MAS and
publication of 
manually 
Uttarakhand 
Accounting Software 
published within six 
published within
Annual 
Municipal 
(MAS) and published 
months from close 
six months from
Financial 
(b) Delays in 
Accounting 
within six months 
of previous FY 
close of previous
Statements of 
preparing Annual 
Manual 
from close of 
FY.
ULBs 
Financial 
previous FY 
Formula:
Statements (AFS) 
$30,000 per ULB 
Formula:
range between 12 to 
Formula: 
who has published 
$10,000 per LJLB
24 months 
$50,000 per ULB 
AFS 
who has published
who has published 
AFS
AFS
DLI #4 Value ($) 
3,200,000 
500,000 
-- 
500,000 
1,500,000 
700,000
DLI#5: Increase Iproperty tax collections of Participating Urban Local Bodies over baseline (USD 4 million)
5. 
Increase in 
(a) Property tax 
N/A 
14 Participating 
8 Participating ULBs 
Participating Ul,Bs 
Participating ULBs
property tax 
assessment, levy 
ULBs have 
have updated digital 
have increased their 
have increased
collections of 
digitized their 
J 
Roperytax 
their property tax
-17-
DLI 
Baseline 
DLI Targets for 
DLI Targets for 
DLI Targets for 
DLI Targets for 
DLI Targets for
Year I 
Year 2 
Year 3 
Year 4 
Year 5
Participating 
and collection is 
manual property 
e. updated GIS maps 
aggregate 20% over 
by aggregate 30%
Urban Local 
largely manual 
tax registers (PTR) 
with properties linked 
baseline 
over baseline
Bodies over 
to them)
baseline 
(b) Aggregate 
Formula: 
Formula: 
Formula:
property tax in 14 
$50000 per ULB 
Formula: 
$55,000 for every 
$20,000 for every
Participating ULBs 
for digitized 
$200,000 per ULB 
percent increase 
percent increase
for FY 2017/18 is 
property tax 
who complete GIS 
over baseline. 
over baseline
INR. 400 million 
_ 
register 
mapping
DLI #5 Value($) 
4,000,000 
N.A 
700,000 
1,600,000 
1,100,000 
600,000
DLI#6: Strengthened coverage and timeliness of financial attest audit for local bodies iurban and rural) (USD 3.5 million)
6. Strengthened 
(a) Financial Attest 
Financial Attest 
40% of Annual 
60% of Annual 
80% of Annual 
Annual report on
coverage and 
(Certification) audit 
Audit Manual has 
Financial 
Financial Statements 
Financial Statements 
audit of local
timeliness of 
started in FY 
been accepted and 
Statements for FY 
for FY 2019/20 and 
for FY 2020/21 and 
bodies for FY
financial attest audit 
2017/18 and 
notified by GoUk. 
2019/20 submitted 
FY 2020/21 and 
FY 2021/22 and 
2021/22 has been
for Local Bodies 
baseline is presently 
for audit on or 
submitted for audit 
submitted for audit 
placed before the
(urban and rural) 
not available 
before 30 
on or after 30 
on or after 30 
State legislature
September, 2020 
September, 2020 and 
September, 2021
(b) Financial Attest 
are audited and 
before 30 September 
and before 30
Audit manual not 
Financial Attest 
2021 are audited and 
September 2022 are
developed 
Audit Reports 
Financial Attest 
audited and
issued by 31 March 
Audit Reports issued 
Financial Attest
2021. 
by 31 March 2022 
Audit Reports
issued by 31 March
Formula: $25,000 
Formula: $10,000 
2023
for every percent of 
for every percent of
Financial Attest 
Financial Attest 
Formula: $10,000
--- 
--_Audit Reports 
for every percent of
-18-
DLI 
Baseline 
DLI Targets for 
DLI Targets for 
DLI Targets for 
DLI Targets for 
DLI Targets for
Year 1 
Year 2 
Year 3 
Year 4 
Year 5
issued for the 
Audit Reports issued 
Financial Attest
above FY 
for the above FYs 
Audit Reports
issued for the above
FYs
DLI #6 Value (5) 
3,500,000 
500,000 
1,000,000 
600,000 
800,000 
600,000
DLI#7 
Improved cash and debt management practices USD 3 million)
7. Improved cash 
(a) Debt records are 
OoMU 
has notificd 
(a) An Annual 
Public Debt 
M [ DS has been 
DSA has been
and debt 
maintained 
the Publie Debt 
( ash dnd 
StatIMLal bUlletin 
Inepared an(d used 
OInduCted h 
the
management 
manually. 
ProcCdres vainual 
Borroin 
Plan 
published lol last FY 
tor the Hinnual 
f D
practices 
in the Official 
has been prepaied 
by ie ED 
borrowing calCiidar
(b) Medinun Term 
Giztcie 
and updated 
by the 1 1)
Debt Strategy 
imonthly by die H)
(MTDS) and Public
Debt Statistical 
(b) Complete debt
Bulletin are not 
data has been nade
prepared. 
available by Mirch
(c) Debt 
3 1. 202 1. on an
Sustainability 
electronic debt
Analysis (DSA) is 
recordimg and
not conducted 
management
sy stein
Formula: For
achievement of(a)
500,000
For achievement of
(b) 500,000
-19-
DLI 
Baseline 
DLI Targets for 
DLI Targets for 
DLI Targets for 
DLI Targets for 
DLI Targets for
Year 1 
Year 2 
Year 3 
Year 4 
Year 5
DLI #7 Value ($) 
3,000,000 
500,000 
1,000,000 
500,000 
500,000 
500,000
-20-
APPENDIX
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
-Annual Financial Statements" and the acronym "AFS" mean the financial statements of
the Urban Local Bodies as defined in the Uttarakhand Municipal Accounting Manual and
the formats prescribed for rural Local Bodies.
2. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption
in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006
and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
.
"Cash and Borrowing Plan" means a plan developed/to be developed by the Finance
Department estimating the cash flows for the fiscal year as well as the borrowing
requirements of the Project Implementing Entity.
4. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
5. 
"Category A auditees" means the government departments/agencies/drawing 
and
disbursing officers classified as high-risk by the Audit Department of Uttarakhand based
on pre-defined criteria in consultation with the Finance Department of Uttarakhand.
6. 
"Centre for Training and Research in Financial Administration" and the acronym
"CTRFA" means the society established in Uttarakhand and registered under the Societies
Registration Act, 1860.
7. 
"Citizen Budget" means a simplified summary of the enacted budget of the Project
Implementing Entity published by the Finance Department.
8. 
"DDOs" means Uttarakhand's drawing and disbursement officers.
9. 
"Debt Procedures Manual" means the manual to be published by the Finance Department
setting out Project Implementing Entity's objectives, policies, and procedures for public
debt management.
10. 
"Debt Sustainability Analysis" and the acronym "DSA" means an analysis prepared/to be
prepared looking at the projected debt burden of Uttarakhand and its vulierability to
external and policy shocks
11. 
"Disbursement Linked Indicator" and the acronym "DLI" mean any one of the indicators
set out in the table in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and "DLIs" means, more than one such
DLI.
12. 
"DLI Target" means any one of the annual targets set to be achieved under each DLI as set
forth in the table in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and "DLI Targets" means, collectively,
more than one such target.
-21-
13. 
"DLI Target Achievement Date" means, with regard to each DLI Target, the end of the
Fiscal Year during which the relevant DLI Target is set to be achieved as set forth in the
table in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
14. 
"DLI Value" means the total amount of the Loan aliocated to each DLI Target as set forth
in the table in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, pursuant to the respective formula detailed in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement as such amount may be modified as per the provisions of
Section III.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement among the DLI Targets by notice from the
Bank from time to time.
15. 
"DLI Verification Protocol" means the set of procedures, prepared for the Project and
acceptable to the Bank as provided for in the Project Implementation Plan, to verify the
achievement of DLI Targets, which sets out, inter alia, the description of the evidence
required; as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior written agreement
of the Bank.
16. 
"Eligible Expenditure Program" and the acronym "EEP" means the (i) actual expenditures
incurred by the CTRFA on goods, non-consulting services, consultant services, Training
and Incremental Operating Costs for the implementation of Part 1(a), 1(b), 1(e), 1(f), 2(b)
and 3(a) of the Project, (ii) Salaries and Dearness allowance of Directorate of Audit, Audit
Cell, and Directorate of Treasuries, Pension and Entitlement of Uttarakhand and (iii)
consultancy fees of the Directorate of Audit and Audit Cell, as detailed in the Project
Implementation Plan.
17. 
"E-procurement Threshold" means the financial threshold above which the Project
Implementing Entity uses the e-procurement system for the procurement of goods, works
and services, as periodically revised from time to time.
18. 
"Finance Department" or "FD" means Uttarakhand's Department of Finance or any
successor thereto, acceptable to the Bank.
19. 
"Financial Attest Audit Manual" means an audit manual to be published by the Finance
Department setting out policy procedures and guidelines for audit of AFS of the Local
Bodies.
20. 
"Fiscal Year" and the acronym "FY" or "Year" mean the Uttarakhand's fiscal year, which
commences on April 1 in a given calendar year and closes on March 31 of the following
calendar year
21. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing", dated December
14, 2018.
22 
"GIS" means Geographical Information System.
-22-
23. 
"Grievance Redressal Mechanism" and the acronym "GRM" means such mechanism as
constituted and set up by the relevant Implementing Agency to address the receipt and
redressal of grievances.
24. 
"High Powered Committee" and the acronym "HPC" means the committee referred to in
Section [IA] of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
25. 
"High risk areas" means any area/function within the government departments of
Uttarakhand identified as high risk owing to the nature and complexity of work undertaken.
26. 
"Human Resource Management Information System" and the acronym "HRMIS" means
the IT-based set-up for the human resource management of the various departments of the
Project Implementing Entity.
27. 
"Incremental Operating Costs" means inter-alia, the following additional costs incurred by
CTRFA in the carrying out of the Project : (i) remuneration of individuals appointed and
staff deputed to the Project and assigned to positions specifically created for purposes of
the Project; and (ii) the costs of office expenses under the Project, including hiring and
maintenance of vehicles, office rent, office maintenance, operation and maintenance of
office's equipment purchased tinder the Project. communication costs, and Project related
domestic and international travel costs including allowances.
28. 
"Indian Administrative Service" means the administrative civil service of the Borrower.
29 
"Implementing Agency(ies)" means the following departments/ agencies of the Project
Implementing Entity, namely: (i) the Directorate of Treasuries, Pension and Entitlements,
(ii) Directorate of Audit, (iii) Audit Cell, (iv) Directorate of Departmental Accounts, (v)
Department of Budget, (vi) Department of Planning, (vii) e-Procurement Cell, (viii) Excise
Department, (ix) Commercial Tax Department, (x) Urban Development Directorate and
Urban Local Bodies, (xi) State Transport Department and (xii) Garhwal Mandal Vikas
Nigam or GMVN; (xiii) Transport Corporation, and the respective successor(s), or such
other department or agency designated by the Project Implementing Entity as an
"Implementing 
Agency" 
and acceptable 
to the Bank, assisting the CTRFA in
implementation of specific activities under the Project.
30. 
"Integrated Financial Management Information System" and the acronym "IFMIS" means
the IT-based budgeting and accounting system used in public financial management of the
Project Implementing Entity.
31. 
"IT" means Information Technology.
32. 
"Local Bodies" mean collectively Panchayati Raj institutions as recognized under the,
Constitutional (7 3 d Amendment) Act, 1992 and Urban Local Bodies as defined herein.
-23-
33. 
"Medium Term Debt Strategy" and the acronym "MTDS" means a strategy prepared!to be
prepared for the evolution of the public debt portfolio to operationalize the debt
management objectives of Uttarakhand.
34 
"Medium Term Expenditure Framework" and the acronym "MTEF" means the three year
expenditure plan setting out the medium term expenditure priority of the Project
Implementing Entity prepared annually.
35. 
"Municipal Accounting Software" and the acronyms "MAS" means the IT system to be
adopted by the Project Implementing Entity for double entry accrual basis of accounting in
Urban Local Bodies.
36. 
"Official Gazette" means Uttarakhand's official journal that records the business and
proceedings of the Government and has been authorized to publish legal notices.
37 
"Online Audit Management System" and the acronym "OAMS" means the IT based set-
up for the management and monitoring of internal audit and audit of Local Bodies
38. 
"Participating ULBs" means ULBs identified by Uttarakhand to participate in Part 2 (b) of
the Project.
39. 
"PFM" means public financial management.
40. 
"Procurement Regulations" means, for purposes of paragraph 87 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF Borrowers", dated
July 2016, revised November 2017 and August 2018.
41 
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and the Project Implementing
Entity of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
42. 
"Project Implementing Entity" means the Borrower's State of Uttarakhand.
43. 
"Project Implementation Plan" means the implementation plan for the Project including all
annexes thereto, acceptable to the Bank dated January 24, 2019, which describes inter alia
the implementation and institutional arrangements and arrangements for compliance,
verification and disbursement against DLIs for the Project, as such plan may be amended
from time to time by agreement between Uttarakhand and the Bank.
44. 
"Project Management Unit" and the acronym "PMU" mean the co-ordination unit
established within CTRFA for the carrying out of Project activities pursuant to Section
LA(1) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
45. 
"Property Tax Register" means the register maintained by each ULB recording the details
of property ownership and tenancies and the related demand and collections of property
tax in its jurisdiction.
-24-
46 
"Public Debt Statistical Bulletin" means the bulletin disseminating debt statistics to the
public to be prepared and published by the Finance Department on an annual basis
47. 
"SBD" means standard bidding document.
48. 
"Scalable DLI" means any DLI identified as such as per the DLI Verification Protocol to
be eligible for partial Loan disbursements in the case of partial achievement of DLI Targets.
49. 
"State Owned Enterprise" and the acronym "SOE" means for the purpose of this Project,
(i) Garhwal Mandal Vikas Nigam (GMVN) or its successor thereto. (ii) Transport
Corporation or its successor(s) thereto, or such state-owned enterprise incorporated as a
legal entity undertaking commercial activities where the Project Implementing Entity
exercises significant control either through full or partial ownership.
50. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the date of the Loan
Agreement" in the General Conditions.
51. 
"Training" means non-consultant expenditures incurred in connection with the provision
of training, including, study tours and workshops, training institution fees, logistics,
materials, and the cost of travel and per diem of trainers and trainees.
52. 
"Urban Local Bodies" or "ULBs" means the statutorily recognized municipal bodies
providing civic or infrastructural services in the urban areas of the Project Implementing
Entity constituted under the Uttarakhand (Uttar Pradesh) Municipalities Act, 1916 and the
Uttarakhand (Uttar Pradesh) Municipal Corporations Act, 1959), as amended.
53. 
"Uttarakhand" means the Borrower's State of Uttarakhand, formed and recognized
pursuant to the Borrower's Uttar Pradesh Reorganization Act of 2000.
54. 
"Uttarakhand Munmcipal Accounting Manual" and the acronyms "LvlIAM" means the
accounting manual prepared and adopted by the Urban Development Directorate of the
Project Implementing Entity.
55. 
"Year I" means the period commencing on April 1, 2019 and concluding on March 31,
2020.
56. 
"Year 2" means the period commencing on April 1, 2020 and concluding on March 31,
2021.
57. 
"Year 3" means the period commencing on April 1, 2021 and concluding on March 31,
2022.
58. 
-Year 4" means the period commencing on April 1, 2022 and concluding on March 31,
2023.
-25-
59 
"Year 5" means the period commencing on April 1, 2023 and concluding on March 31,
2024.
