OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8867-AR
Loan Agreement
(Integrated Risk Management in the Rural Agroindustrial System Project)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between the ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
("Borrower") 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II- LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of one hundred and fifty million
Dollars (USD 150,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through
a Currency Conversion ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1
to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower's Representatives for purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section are its Minister of Treasury,
its Undersecretary of International Financial Relations, or its National Director of
Financing with International Credit Institutions.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project, through GSA's DIPROSE:
(a) 
in coordination with GSA's Sub-secretariat of Political Coordination for Part A of
the Project, GSA's Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries for technical
assistance activities under Part B of the Project, GSA's National Directorate of
Agricultural Emergencies and Disasters for Part C of the Project and the Selected
Public Institutions for Part A of the Project; and
(b) 
with the assistance of the Participating Provinces, under the terms of the
Framework Subsidiary Loan Agreements and Subsidiary Loan Agreements, for
Part B of the Project, all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a Participating
Province has failed to comply with any of its obligations under its respective Framework
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, the event specified
in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 60 days after
notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the
Signature Date.
ARTICLE VI- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower's Representative is its
Minister of Treasury.
6.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) the Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Treasury
Hip6lito Yrigoyen 250
C1086 AAB, Buenos Aires
Argentina; and
(b) the Borrower's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
E-mail:
121942-AR 
54114349-8815 
secpriv@mecon.gob.ar
-2-
6.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
E-mail:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
jhentschel@worldbank.org
64145(MCI)
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By 
6&
Au tonzed 
epresentative
Name: 
NICOLAS DUJOVNE
Ministro do Hacienda
Title:
Date: 
12 FEB. 2019
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By 
.
4' 
A 1 
orized Representative
Name: Jesko keniGchel
Title: 
Cou o+r 
),crj Dreclor
Date: 
Jonuari 
3 
2 O
1  
-3-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve the management of agricultural risk by Eligible
Beneficiaries and Selected Public Institutions.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A. Strengthening Agroclimatic Information Systems
Support for improvements in the capacity and interoperability of agroclimatic and price information
systems operated and/or disseminated by GSA and other public and private entities through:
A.1. 
Development of Tools and Systems
Consolidation and integration of production, price, and meteorological information generated by
SMN, [NTA, CONAE, and Commodity Exchanges into information technology systems and
software solutions that improve access to agroindustrial information and enhance the assessment
of agricultural risks associated with climate variability, climate change, and market price
fluctuations.
A.2. 
Institutional Capacity Development
Capacity building in Selected Public Institutions and GSA to operate the information systems
improved and integrated under Part A. 1. of the Project and development of user interfaces to
facilitate the development of software solutions by the private sector, based on data generated by
such information systems.
Part B. Agricultural Risk Mitigation Investments
Support for the miti&ation of agricultural risk through:
B.1. 
Institutional Strengthening for the Integrated Management of Agricultural Risk
(a) 
Formulation of up to 15 Agricultural Value Chain Risk Strategies (AVCRSs) for
prioritized agricultural value chains and up to 15 Provincial Agricultural Sector
Risk Management Plans (PARMPs).
(b) 
Capacity building for national and provincial government institutions in the
integrated management of agricultural risks.
(c) 
Formulation of subprojects for climatic risk mitigation prioritized by PARMPs and
AVCRSs, and pre-investment studies for the design of other activities prioritized
in PARMPs and AVCRSs.
-4-
B.2. 
Public Investments
Carrying out of infrastructure, natural resource management or other weather risk management
investments (the Risk Mitigation Subprojects) identified and prioritized in: (a) AVCRSs; or (b)
PARMPs, in the latter case in a number of Participating Provinces not exceeding 12.
B.3. 
Adoption of Climate Smart Agriculture Technologies
(a) 
Training and technical assistance services for Vulnerable Family Farmers, Farmer
Groups, and Selected Financial Institutions to promote their adoption of validated
CSA technologies.
(b) 
Applied research, piloting, and dissemination of promising but untested CSA
technologies and risk management practices and instruments.
(c) 
Provision of Matching Grants to Eligible Beneficiaries to carry out on-farm or off-
farm investments required for the adoption and application of CSA technologies,
risk management practices, and instruments in their farming activities (the CSA
Technology Activities).
Part C. Agricultural Emergency Response Financing and Transfer of Agroclimatic Risks
Support for the improvement for the Borrower's agricultural emergency system at the national and
provincial levels and the expansion of risk coverage through:
(a) 
Training and technical assistance services to strengthen GSA's capacity to manage
agricultural emergencies.
(b) 
Development of agricultural risk financing instruments aimed to protect family
farmers with aggregated data at the provincial and regional-level such as
parametric insurance, catastrophe bonds, contingent lines of credit, and weather
derivatives, as well as training and technical assistance for their validation and
adoption.
(c) 
Pilot implementation of macro-level agricultural risk financing instruments to
protect family farmers against production risks in their farming operations.
Part D. Project Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation
Support for:
(a) 
Project coordination and management, monitoring, results evaluation, and
assessment of Project activities;
(b) 
Project fiduciary administration, internal controls, and audits;
-5-
(c) 
Project environmental and social risk/safeguards management;
(d) 
citizen engagement mechanisms and grievance redress mechanism; and
(e) 
Project related studies proposed by GSA and agreed to by the Bank.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall, through GSA's DIPROSE, maintain for purpose of the
implementation, monitoring and supervision of the Project a structure, functions and
responsibilities, and staffing acceptable to the Bank, including fiduciary, administrative
and technical personnel, and social and environmental specialists, all with qualifications,
experience and terms of employment acceptable to the Bank, as set forth in the Operational
Manual.
2. 
The Borrower shall, through GSA's DIPROSE:
(a) 
not later than three months after the Signature Date start design of a digital registry,
operated and with a structure and mechanisms as set forth in the Operational
Manual, of beneficiaries of Part B of the Project; and
(b) 
as soon as technically and operationally possible but not later than nine months
after the Signature Date, start implementation of the digital registry of the
beneficiaries of all Parts of the Project.
B. 
Operational Manual
1 .
The Borrower shall, through GSA's DIPROSE, carry out the Project in accordance with a
manual (the Operational Manual), acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia:
(a) 
the budgeting, accounting, auditing, reporting, financial, procurement and
disbursement procedures of the Project;
(b) 
the eligibility criteria for Vulnerable Family Farmers, Farmer Groups, Selected
Public Institutions, Selected Financial Institutions and Participating Provinces;
(c) 
the eligibility criteria and procedures for the selection, approval, carrying out,
monitoring and supervision of Risk Mitigation Subprojects and CSA Technology
Activities and related Matching Grants;
(d) 
the model form of Cooperation Agreement, Framework Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, Subsidiary Loan Agreement and Matching Grant Agreement;
(e) 
the organizational structure for implementation of the Project, including the
cooperating roles of the Selected Public Institutions;
-7-
(f) 
the Project indicators for the monitoring and evaluation of the Project; and
(g) 
the Safeguards Documents, including the grievance redress mechanism applicable
to the Project.
2. 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and those of this
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
C. 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and Risk Mitigation Subprojects
1. 
The Borrower shall, through GSA's DIPROSE:
(a) 
prior to the implementation of any activity under Part B.2 of the Project for the
benefit of a Participating Province, enter into an agreement with the Participating
Province, under terms substantially similar to those in the Model Form of
Framework Subsidiary Loan Agreement and under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank, setting forth the framework for the implementation of Risk
Mitigation Subprojects in their jurisdiction; and
(b) 
prior to the implementation of any Risk Mitigation Subproject and not later than
24 months from the Signature Date, enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with
the Participating Province under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including the following terms:
(i) 
that the part of the proceeds of the Loan allocated for Part B.2 of the
Project and required for implementation of the Risk Mitigation Subproject
will be on-lent to the Participating Province as a subloan which shall be:
(A) denominated and repayable in Dollars; and (B) with financial terms
and conditions similar to those of the Loan; and
(ii) 
that the Borrower, through GSA's DIPROSE, require each Participating
Province to:
(1) 
carry out its Risk Mitigation Subproject with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, economic,
financial, managerial, environmental and social standards and
practices satisfactory to the Bank, including: (A) the Participating
Province's undertaking to carry out its Risk Mitigation Subproject
in accordance with the provisions of the Safeguard Documents,
the 
Procurement 
Regulations, 
and 
the 
Anti-Corruption
Guidelines; (B) the Bank's and the Borrower's, through GSA's
DIPROSE, right to require audits of the Participating Province's
records and accounts; (C) the Borrower's, through GSA's
DIPROSE, right to suspend, terminate or accelerate or seek refund
of the subloan;
-8-
(II) 
(A) maintain a financial management system in accordance with
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank,
in a manner adequate to reflect the operations, resources and
expenditures related to the Risk Mitigation Subproject; and (B)
enable the Bank's or the Borrower's representatives to have access
to such financial management system;
(I) 
enable the Borrower, through GSA's DIPROSE, and the Bank to
inspect the Risk Mitigation Subproject, its operation, including
environmental and social risk management, and any relevant
records and documents; and
(IV) 
prepare and furnish to GSA's DIPROSE, and the Bank all such
information as GSA's DIPROSE, or the Bank, shall reasonably
request relating to the foregoing.
2. 
The Borrower shall, through GSA's DIPROSE, exercise its rights under each Framework
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect
the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, through GSA's DIPROSE,
not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate or waive any Framework Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any of their provisions.
D. 
Cooperation Agreements
1 
The Borrower shall, through GSA's DIPROSE:
(a) 
not later than four months after the Signature Date with respect to INTA, CONAE,
and SMN; and
(b) 
prior to initiating any activities for the strengthening of the agroclimatic and price
information systems operating in the Borrower's territory and involving the
cooperation of other Selected Public Institutions, enter into a cooperation
agreement with INTA, CONAE, SMN and the respective Selected Public
Institution, in terms substantially similar to those in the Model Form of
Cooperation Agreement and acceptable to the Bank, setting forth their respective
responsibilities in the implementation of such activities.
2. 
The Borrower shall, through GSA's DIPROSE, exercise its rights under each Cooperation
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower, through GSA's DIPROSE, shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate or waive
any Cooperation Agreement or any of their provisions.
-9-
E. 
CSA Technology Activities and Matching Grants
1. 
The Borrower shall, through GSA's DIPROSE, provide Matching Grants to Eligible
Beneficiaries for the implementation of CSA Technology Activities under Part B. 3 (c) of
the Project in accordance with eligibility criteria and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
and specified in the Operational Manual.
2. 
Prior to the initiation of any CSA Technology Activity by an Eligible Beneficiary, the
Borrower shall, through GSA's DIPROSE:
(a) 
enter into an agreement with the Eligible Beneficiary, in terms substantially similar
to those in the model form of Matching Grant Agreement, and in terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank; and
(b) 
exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each Matching Grant
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interest of the Borrower and the Bank
and to accomplish the objectives of the Project. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate of waive or fail
to enforce any Matching Grant Agreement or any of its provisions.
F. 
Safeguards
The Borrower shall, through GSA's DIPROSE:
(a) 
implement and cause the Participating Provinces to implement, the Project in
accordance with the ESMF, RPF and IPPF;
(b) 
comply and cause the Participating Provinces to comply, with the procedures
detailed in said ESMF, RPF and IPPF for environmental screening and social
assessment, evaluation, implementation and monitoring of the Project, including
the procedures for the preparation of ESMPs, RAPs and IPPs, if applicable; and
(c) 
as applicable, implement and cause to be implemented by the Participating
Provinces and Eligible Beneficiaries, the pertinent ESMPs, RAPs and IPPs, all in
accordance with their terms and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
Section II. 
Proiect Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
The Borrower shall, through GSA's DIPROSE, furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later
than 45 days after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar semester.
-10-
Section III. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in
accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible Expenditures; and (b) pay: (i)
the Front-end Fee; and (ii) each Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar premium; in the
amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category of
the following table:
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in USD) 
(inclusive of Taxes except
for Taxes levied for
financial transactions)
(1) Goods 
20,750,000 
100%
(2) Non-consulting services, 
46,365,000 
100%
Training, Financial
Instruments Costs and
consulting services
(3) Works 
72,000,000 
100%
(4) Grants under Part B.3 of 
8,500,000 
100%
the Project
(5) Operating Costs 
2,010,000 
100%
(6) Front-end Fee 
375,000 
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(7) Interest Rate Cap or 
0 
Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar premium 
Section 4.05 (c) of the
General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 
150,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made for payments
made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed USD15,000,000 equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date
but on or after March 30, 2018, for Eligible Expenditures.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2024.
-11-
SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date ("Installment Share").
Level Principal Repayments
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
On each January 15 and July15
Beginning January 15, 2026
through July 15, 2049 
2.04%
On January 15, 2050 
2.08%
-12-
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption
in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006
and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
2. 
"Agricultural Value Chain Risk Strategy" or "AVCRS" means an interprovincial
agricultural chain risk strategy prepared and implemented by GSA or its decentralized
agencies following the requirements of the Operational Manual.
3. 
"Category" means any category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
4. 
"Commodity Exchange" means any agricultural exchange operated in the Borrower's
territory.
5. 
"CONAE" means Comisidn Nacional de Actividades Espaciales, the Borrower National
Commission of Space Activities established pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 995 of
1991 published in the Official Gazette on June 3, 1991, as amended to the date of the Loan
Agreement.
6. 
"Cooperation Agreement" means any cooperation agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower, through GSA's DIPROSE and a Selected Public Institution, pursuant to the
provisions of Section LD of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement.
7. 
"CSA" means climate smart agriculture, a set of measures designed to increase farm
revenue and have a positive environmental impact.
8. 
"CSA Technology Activity" means an investment or investments to be carried out by an
Eligible Beneficiary to adopt and apply CSA technologies.
9. 
"DIPROSE" means Direcci6n General de Programas y Proyectos Sectoriales y
Especiales, GSA's General Directorate of Sectoral and Special Programs and Projects or
any successor thereto, acceptable to the Bank.
10. 
"Displaced Person" means a person who, on account of the execution of the Project had
or would have been affected by an involuntary taking of land under the Project, which
causes said Displaced Person to have his/her: (a) standard of living adversely affected; or
(b) right, title or interest in any construction, land (including premises, agricultural and
grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or
permanently; or (c) access to productive assets adversely affected, temporarily or
-13-
permanently; or (d) business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely
affected, temporarily or permanently; and "Displaced Persons" means, collectively, all
such Displaced Persons.
11. 
"Eligible Beneficiaries" means collectively Vulnerable Family Farmers and Family
Farmers Groups.
12. 
"Environmental and Social Management Plan" or "ESMP" means any environmental and
social management plan prepared, consulted, published and implemented by the Borrower
based on the ESMF, found acceptable to the Bank, and setting forth detailed modalities for
environmental and social management under the Project.
13. 
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the Borrower's
framework dated January 2018, acceptable to the Bank, published and available to the
public on the website of GSA and on the Bank's external website, which contains the
environmental and social protection measures to be taken by the Borrower, Participating
Provinces and Beneficiaries in respect of the Project, including, inter alia:
(a) 
measures for chance findings of cultural property;
(b) 
guidelines for the identification of existing environmental and social conditions and
risks and potential direct and indirect environmental and social impacts resulting
from the carrying out of the Project;
(c) 
guidelines for the carrying out of environmental assessments and the preparation
of ESMP in the scope and depth as applicable;
(d) 
procedures to be followed for activities affecting International Waterways as
required by the Operational Policy 7.50;
(e) 
a framework for integrated management of pesticides;
(f) 
guidance to apply mechanisms for participative planning, educational and
communication activities to induce knowledge, attitude and behavioral changes,
involving men and women;
(g) 
mitigation measures and good practices for each negative environmental and social
impacts identified; and
(h) 
measures for enhancing each identified positive environmental and social impact,
as said framework may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the
Bank.
14. 
"Family Farmer" means a family farmer who carries out productive agricultural, livestock,
forestry, fishing, and aquaculture activities in rural areas and fulfills the requirements of
-14-
the Borrower's Family Farmers Law No 27118 published in the Official Gazette on January
28, 2015.
15. 
"Family Farmer Group" means a farmer association or cooperative that has a majority of
members composed of Family Farmers.
16. 
"Financial Instruments Costs" means any premia or other costs charged for the financial
services to be contracted under Part C (c) of the Project.
17. 
"Framework Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any of the agreements to be entered into
between the Borrower, through GSA's DIPROSE, and a Participating Province, pursuant
to the provisions of Section I.C. 1(a) of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, setting forth the
framework for implementation of Risk Mitigation Subprojects.
18. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing", dated July 14,
2017.
19. 
"GSA" means the Government Secretariat of Agroindustry under the Borrower's Ministry
of Production and Labor, or any successor or successors thereto, acceptable to the Bank.
20. 
"Indigenous Peoples" means individuals residing in the Borrower's territory deemed to be
Indigenous Peoples in accordance with the criteria set forth in the Safeguard Policies.
21. 
"Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework" or "IPPF" means the Borrower's framework
dated January 2018, acceptable to the Bank, published and available to the public on the
website of GSA and on Bank's external website, which contains the culturally appropriate
procedures to be followed by the Borrower and the Participating Provinces for Project
activities affecting Indigenous Peoples, including, inter alia: guidelines for the preparation
of IPPs, as said framework may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the
Bank.
22. 
"INTA" means Instituto Nacional de Tecnologia Agropecuaria, the Borrower's National
Institute of Agricultural Technology, established pursuant to the Borrower's Decree Law
No 21680/56 published in the Official Gazette on December 10, 1956, as amended to the
date of the Loan Agreement.
23. 
"IPP" means any Indigenous Peoples' Plan prepared, consulted, published and
implemented by the Borrower based on the IPPF, found acceptable to the Bank, and setting
forth detailed procedures to be followed for activities affecting Indigenous Peoples.
24. 
"Matching Grant" means a grant made or to be made to a Vulnerable Family Farmer or
Family Farmer Group which meets the criteria for eligibility set forth in the Operational
Manual.
-15-
25. 
"Matching Grant Agreement" means any agreement entered into between the Borrower,
through GSA's DIPROSE, and an Eligible Beneficiary pursuant to the provisions of
Section I.E of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement.
26. 
"Official Gazette" means Boletin Oficial, the Borrower's official gazette.
27. 
"Operating Costs" means reasonable recurrent expenditures (none of which would have
been incurred absent the Project), incurred by the Borrower for the implementation,
coordination and supervision of the Project, including, inter alia, travel costs (i.e.
accommodation, transportation and per-diem); operation and maintenance of office
equipment; vehicle rental, operation, insurance and maintenance costs; rental of offices;
utilities; non-durable and/or consumable office materials; banking fees; communication,
printing and publications; and salaries of support staff working for the Project.
28. 
"Operational Manual" means the Borrower's manual referred to in Section I.B of Schedule
2 to this Agreement and dated April 18, 2018, as the same may be amended from time to
time with the prior written approval of the Bank.
29. 
"Participating Province" means any of the Borrower's provinces which have been selected
to participate in the implementation of Part B of the Project in accordance with the
provisions of the Operational Manual.
30. 
"Procurement Regulations" means, for purposes of paragraph 87 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF Borrowers", dated
July 2016, revised November 2017.
31. 
"Provincial Agricultural Sector Risk Management Plan" or "PARMP" means any
Provincial Agricultural Sector Risk Management Plan prepared and implemented by a
Participating Province following the requirements of the Operational Manual.
32. 
"Resettlement Action Plan" or "RAP" means any resettlement action plan prepared and
implemented in accordance with the requirements of the RPF.
33. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the Borrower's framework dated
January 2018, acceptable to the Bank, published and available to the public on the website
of GSA and on Bank's external website, as adopted by the Borrower, and setting forth the
modalities for resettlement and compensation of inter alia, Displaced Persons, including
guidelines for the preparation of any RAP under the Project, as said framework may be
amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
34. 
"Risk Mitigation Subproject" means an infrastructure, natural resource management or
other weather risk mitigation investment identified and prioritized by a Participating
Province in a PARMP or by GSA or its decentralized institutions in a AVCRS which meets
the criteria of the Operational Manual for selection and implementation under Part B.2 of
the Project.
-16-
35. 
"Safeguards Documents" means collectively the ESMF, the IPPF and the RPF, and the
procedures to be followed as per the requirements of OP 7.36 of the Safeguard Policies.
36. 
"Safeguards Policies" means the Bank's operational policies and procedures, namely
OP/BP 4.01, 4.04, 4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37 and 7.36; they can be found at
https:/policies.worldbank.org.
37. 
"Selected Financial Institutions" means any financial institution operating in the
Borrower's territory eligible to participate in Part B.3 (a) of the Project.
38. 
"Selected Public Institutions" means INTA, CONAE, SMN, other decentralized agencies
of GSA and the Participating Provinces, which meet the requirements of the Operational
Manual to participate in Part A. 1 of the Project.
39. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the date of the Loan
Agreement" in the General Conditions.
40. 
"SMN" means Servicio Metereol6gico Nacional, the Borrower's National Meteorological
Service established pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 12945 published in the Official
Gazette on June 27, 1947, as amended to the date of the Loan Agreement.
41. 
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower, through GSA's DIPROSE, and a Participating Province pursuant
to the provisions of Section I.C. 1(b) of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement.
42. 
"Training" means expenditures (other than those for consulting services) incurred by the
Borrower or a Participating Province in connection with the carrying out of seminars,
workshops, including the reasonable travel costs (i.e. accommodation, transportation and
per-diem) of trainees and trainers (if applicable), trainers honorarium, training registration
fees, catering, rental of training facilities and equipment, logistics and printing services, as
well as training materials for the purposes of and directly related to the activities described
in the Project.
43. 
"Vulnerable Family Farmer" means a Family Farmer who is deemed vulnerable following
the criteria and procedural requirements set forth in the Operational Manual.
-17-
