 
 
 
 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 9000-JO 
GCFF TF NUMBER TF0B0686 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
(Additional Financing- Jordan Emergency Health Project) 
 
 
between 
 
 
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN 
 
 
and 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 9000-JO 
GCFF TF NUMBER TF0B0686 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date, between THE HASHEMITE 
KINGDOM OF JORDAN (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing 
additional financing for activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix 
to this Agreement).   
 
WHEREAS, (A) following an international effort to provide development support 
to countries most affected by refugees in the Middle East region; and having satisfied itself 
as to the feasibility and priority of the Project aimed at maintaining the delivery of health 
services to Jordanians and Syrian refugees, as further described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, the Borrower has requested the Bank to extend a loan to assist in the financing 
of the Program; 
(B) funding from the Global Concessional Financing Facility was received by the 
Bank for purposes of providing concessionality under this Agreement; and 
(C) under the terms of a Financial Procedures Arrangement with the Trustee of the 
Global Concessional Financing Facility dated August 10, 2016, the Bank has agreed to 
provide additional funds to the Borrower (the Concessional Portion of the Loan, as 
hereinafter defined) as part of an integrated lending operation under the terms of this 
Agreement. 
NOW THEREFORE, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute 
an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix 
to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to extend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement, a Loan in the amount of two hundred million 
-2- 
 
United States Dollars (USD 200,000,000) to assist in financing the project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”), consisting of the following:  
 
(a) 
a non-concessional portion of the Loan in an amount of one hundred forty 
one million one hundred thousand United States Dollars (USD 
141,100,000) as such amount may be converted from time to time through 
a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 
of this Agreement (“Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan”); and 
(b) 
a concessional portion of the Loan in an amount of fifty eight million nine 
hundred 
thousand 
United 
States 
Dollars 
(USD 
58,900,000) 
(“Concessional Portion of the Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section 
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall 
be deposited by the Bank into an account specified by the Borrower and acceptable 
to the Bank. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan. 
 
2.04. 
(a) 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one 
quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Balance of 
the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan. 
 
 
(b) 
The Commitment Charge shall not be applied to the Concessional Portion 
of the Loan. 
 
2.05. 
(a) 
The interest payable by the Borrower on the Non-Concessional Portion of 
the Loan for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the Reference 
Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread.  
 
 
(b) 
The Concessional Portion of the Loan shall be made available on a non-
reimbursable basis. 
 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan shall be repaid 
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
 
 
 
-3- 
 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, 
the Borrower shall carry out the Project through MOPIC in coordination with 
MOH in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension is that the Borrower’s refugee protection 
framework is no longer adequate, in the opinion of the Bank. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI— REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister responsible for planning and 
international cooperation.   
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation 
 
Post office Box 555  
 
Amman, 11118 
 
The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan 
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
+962-6-464 9341 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
-4- 
 
United States of America 
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
  64145(MCI) 
 
 
AGREED as of the Signature Date 
 
 
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN 
 
 
 
 
By 
 
 
 
_____________________________________ 
Authorized Representative 
 
Name: Mohamad Al-Ississ 
 
Title: Minister of Planning and International 
Cooperation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    Date: __________________________ 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
By 
 
 
_____________________________________ 
 
Authorized Representative 
Name: Saroj Kumar Jha 
 
Title: Country Director 
 
Date: _______________________________ 
29-Jul-2019
25-Jul-2019
-5- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower in maintaining the delivery 
of primary and secondary health services to poor uninsured Jordanians and Syrian refugees 
at MOH facilities. 
 
The Project consists of the following Original Project Parts, as amended: 
1. 
Results-based financing to Deliver Health Care Services at Primary and 
Secondary Health Care Facilities of MOH for the Target Population  
 
Results-based financing for the delivery of primary and secondary health care 
services to the Target Population, through the financing of Health Care Service 
Delivery expenditures. 
 
2. 
Improving Coverage and Quality of the Primary Healthcare Services  
 
2.1 
Supporting MOH in strengthening Primary Health Care Services by incorporating 
a family health model and emphasizing human resource development, through, 
inter alia, a comprehensive assessment of gaps in human resources and skills 
needed to incorporate a national family health services model based on WHO’s 
recommendations. 
 
2.2 
(a) 
Providing technical assistance and capacity building to strengthen the 
institutional capacity of (i) the Borrower’s public health system, including 
inter alia, in health information systems, human resources, health 
insurance financing and strategic purchasing for services in the private 
sector; (ii) the Coordination Unit in project management, monitoring and 
evaluation; and (iii) MOH to maintain a grievance redress mechanism and 
raise awareness on gender-based violence issues; and 
 
(b)  
Financing the cost of an independent verification of the services utilized 
by the Target Population at MOH facilities.  
  
 
 
 
 
 
-6- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements   
1. 
The Borrower shall be responsible for the overall implementation of the Project 
and shall carry out the Project through its MOPIC, in coordination with designated 
focal points in its MOH; to this end, the Borrower shall, throughout Project 
implementation, ensure that MOPIC and MOH designate and assign staff in 
adequate numbers and with qualifications satisfactory to the Bank to be responsible 
for Project implementation. 
2. 
The Borrower shall maintain at all times during Project implementation, a 
Coordination Unit in MOH, with terms of reference, mandate, composition and 
resources satisfactory to the Bank. Without limiting the foregoing, the 
Coordination Unit shall include a Project Coordinator, Financial Management 
Specialist, and a Procurement Specialist.   
B. 
POM 
 
The Borrower shall amend, no later than three (3) months after the Effective Date, 
the POM, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, and shall ensure that the Project is 
carried out in accordance with the POM, and shall ensure that the POM is not 
amended, suspended, abrogated, or repealed and that no provision of the POM is 
waived, without prior approval of the Bank. 
 
C. 
Expenditure Verification, Utilization Verification for Part 1 of the Project  
 
1. 
The Borrower shall:  
 
(a) 
cause the Audit Bureau to be responsible to conduct the Expenditure 
Verifications; 
 
(b) 
furnish the Expenditure Verification to the Bank no later than six (6) 
months after each Reported Period;  
 
(c) 
hire, no later than three (3) months after the Effective Date, and shall 
thereafter maintain, throughout Project implementation, the UVE, to 
conduct the Utilization Verification. The Borrower shall furnish 
Utilization Verification Audits no later than six (6) months after each 
Reported Period; and  
 
-7- 
 
(d) 
furnish the Health Care Service Delivery Expenditure Report to the Bank, 
no later than six (6) months after each Reported Period. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall, throughout the implementation of the Project, take all 
necessary measures required to enable the UVE to visit any facilities and sites, and 
inspect all relevant documents and systems, for purposes of carrying out activities 
necessary for the preparation of the Utilization Verifications. 
 
D. 
Financing under Part 2 of the Project based on Disbursement-Linked 
Indicators  
 
1. 
The Borrower through MOH shall: 
(a) 
implement Part 2 of the Project in accordance with the institutional, 
financial management and procurement arrangements set out in this 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
monitor and furnish sufficient documentation to the Bank to enable the 
Bank to verify the data and other evidence supporting the achievement of 
one or more DLIs as set forth in the table in Schedule 5 to this Agreement;  
2. 
(a) 
The amount of payments which the Borrower may request for DLI- based 
financing under Part 2 of the Project shall be determined on the basis of 
the maximum amount allocated by the Bank to each DLI, subject to the 
provisions of Schedule 2 Section III, provided that such amount shall not 
exceed the total amount of payment for Eligible Expenditures incurred 
during the year covered by the DLI-based financing payment requested, 
excluding any amount of eligible expenditures financed from other 
sources of financing. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provision of sub-paragraph (a) of this sub-section 2, 
all payments under the DLI-based financing shall be subject to the Bank’s 
prior written approval and shall only be eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan if and to the extent approved by the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 Section III. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
 
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than one 
month after the end of a calendar year, covering the calendar year.  
 
 
-8- 
 
 
Section III. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the 
“Disbursement Guidelines for Investment Project Financing” dated February 
2017, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures and pay 
the Front-end Fee, as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the 
Non-Concessional 
Portion of the 
Loan Allocated 
(expressed in 
USD) 
Amount of the 
Concessional 
Portion of the 
Loan Allocated 
(expressed in 
USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures  
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1)  Health Care Service 
Delivery 
Expenditures under 
Part 1 of the Project  
133,946,135 
56,053,865 
100% 
(2)  Eligible 
Expenditures 
Program under Part 
2.1 of the Project 
6,344,817 
2,655,183 
100% of each DLI Amount 
set out in Schedule 4 (or 
such lesser percentage as 
represents the total Eligible 
Expenditures incurred by 
the Borrower under the 
Eligible 
Expenditure 
Program  
(3)  Goods, non-
consulting services, 
and consulting 
services and 
Training for Part 
2.2 of the Project 
456,298 
190,952 
100% 
-9- 
 
(4) Front-end Fee 
352,750 
N/A 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07(b) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
141,100,000 
58,900,000 
 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
 
(a) 
from the Loan Account unless each withdrawal is made on a pari passu 
basis and at a 70.51%/29.5% ratio between the amount of the Non-
Concessional Portion of the Loan allocated and the amount of the 
Concessional Portion of the Loan allocated. 
 
 
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $30,000,000 may be 
made for payments made prior to this date but on or after June 30, 2018, 
for Eligible Expenditures under Category (1);  
 
(c) 
under Category (1) unless the Bank has received satisfactory evidence 
showing that health care services have been delivered to the Target 
Population, to be confirmed by a Health Care Service Delivery 
Expenditure Report furnished by the Borrower to the Bank containing: (a) 
an Expenditure Verification, satisfactory to the Bank, confirming the 
amount of Health Care Service Delivery Expenditures; and (b) a 
Utilization Verification, satisfactory to the Bank, confirming the 
utilization of health care services by the Target Population;  
 
 
(d) 
under Category (2) unless and until the Borrower has furnished all required 
verification documents and information acceptable to the Bank showing 
achievement of the DLIs and sufficient for the Bank to certify the 
achievement of the DLIs; and   
 
 
(e) 
under Category (3) of this Additional Financing unless and until the 
respective allocations under Category (3) of the Original Financing 
Agreement have been fully disbursed.  
 
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, payments under Category 
(2) shall not exceed the maximum amounts allocated to the respective DLI(s) as 
provided in Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
-10- 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Part B, if the Bank 
shall determine, based on the evidence provided by the Borrower under paragraph 
2 of this Part B, that any DLI(s) have not been achieved or have been partially 
achieved by the end of the year during which such DLI(s) were scheduled to be 
met in accordance with Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Bank may in its sole 
discretion, by notice to the Borrower:  
(a) 
disburse in whole or in part the amount of the Loan allocated to such 
DLI(s) at any later time when such DLI(s) are met; and/or 
(b) 
reallocate in whole or in part any amount of the Loan allocated to such 
DLI(s) to other DLI(s) under Category (2) or to other Categories. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Bank determines, at any time, that any 
portion of the amounts disbursed by the Borrower under Category (1) was made for 
reimbursement of expenditures that are not eligible, the Borrower shall promptly 
refund any such amount to the Bank as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. 
5. 
The Closing Date is October 31, 2023. 
 
Section IV. 
Other Undertakings 
 
The Borrower shall open a dedicated special account within the Central Bank of Jordan for 
the exclusive benefit of MOH and transfer, from the Borrower’s budget, on an annual basis, 
and by no later than September 30, 2019 in the first year of the Project, and by no later than 
June 30 thereafter, an amount of $7,500,000 for each of the four years of implementation 
of the Project, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, for the purpose of providing 
health care services for Syrian refugees.   
 
 
 
-11- 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Non-Concessional 
Portion of the Loan and the percentage of the total principal amount of the Non-
Concessional Portion of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date (“Installment 
Share”).  
 
Level Principal Repayments 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
 
Beginning May 15, 2024 
 
through November 15, 2053 
 
 
 
1.64% 
On May 15, 2054 
1.6% 
 
 
 
 
-12- 
 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Amendments to the Original Financing Agreement 
 
 
The Borrower and the World Bank hereby agree to amend the Original Financing 
Agreement to read as follows: 
1. Paragraph B (3) of Section IV of Schedule 2, Project Execution, is hereby 
replaced in its entirety to read as follows: 
“3. 
The Closing Date is October 31, 2023.” 
 
 
 
-13- 
 
 
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Disbursement-linked Indicators under the Project 
 
The following table specifies the Disbursement Linked Indicators (DLI) and the allocation 
of the amounts of the Loan to each DLI under Category 2: 
 
 
 
 
Results Area  
 
Category 
(including Disbursement 
Linked Indicator as 
applicable)) 
Amount of the 
Non-
Concessional 
Portion of the 
Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in 
USD) 
Amount of the 
Concessional 
Portion of the 
Loan 
Allocated  
(expressed in 
USD) 
Additional 
budget of 
MOH 
DLI#1.1: From the baseline of 
US$776,091,777 
(JOD 
550,419,700) 
(MOH’s 
expenditures 
in 
the 
2017 
budget), 
MOH 
receives 
additional 
budget 
of 
US$1,000,000 in the Jordanian 
fiscal 
year 
2020 
following 
declaration of effectiveness of 
the Project  
 
733,333 
266,667 
Assessment 
of PHC 
coverage & 
quality gaps 
DLI #1.2 MOH completes an 
assessment of gaps in human 
resources and skills needed to 
incorporate 
a 
nation-wide 
family health services model 
based 
on 
WHO 
recommendations including (i) 
mother 
and 
child 
health, 
nutrition, 
growth 
and 
development monitoring; and, 
(ii) 
prevention 
and 
early 
diagnosis 
of 
diabetes, 
hypertension and breast cancer. 
 
733,333 
266,667 
-14- 
 
Additional 
budget of 
MOH 
DLI#2.1: From the baseline of 
US$776,091,777 
(JOD 
550,419,700) 
(MOH’s 
expenditures in the 2017 budget) 
MOH receives additional budget 
of US$1,000,000 in the second 
consecutive 
Jordanian 
fiscal 
year following declaration of 
effectiveness of the Project 
 
733,333 
266,667 
Development 
of an 
Implementatio
n Plan to 
Improve 
Quality & 
Coverage of 
PHC 
DLI#2.2 MOH develops and 
approves a costed and phased 
implementation strategy with a 
M&E 
system, 
incorporating 
feedback and inputs from all 
health 
directorates 
and 
development partners.  
 
1,466,667 
533,333 
Additional 
budget of 
MOH 
DLI#3.1: From the baseline of 
US$776,091,777 
(JOD 
550,419,700) 
(MOH’s 
expenditures in the 2017 budget) 
MOH receives additional budget 
of US$2,000,000 in the third 
consecutive 
Jordanian 
fiscal 
year following declaration of 
effectiveness of the Project  
 
1,466,667 
533,333 
Human 
resources 
capacity 
building to 
improve 
outcomes in 
PHC 
DLI#3.2: MOH provides report 
on year 1 implementation results 
of the human resources capacity 
building and training activities 
as 
designed 
in 
the 
implementation strategy under 
DLI 2.2 
 
1,466,667 
533,333 
Total  
 
6,600,000 
2,400,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Advance” means an advance payment made from the Loan Account, using the 
Advance payment method described in the Disbursement Guidelines, and to be 
documented within the time period set forth in the additional instructions referred 
to in Section IV.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006, and revised in January 2011 and as 
of July 1, 2016. 
3. 
“Audit Bureau” means the Borrower’s national audit agency established pursuant 
to Law No. 28 of 1952. 
4. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
5. 
“Concessional Portion of the Loan” means the amount of the Loan referred to in 
Section 2.01(b) of this Agreement; which has been contributed for the Project from 
the GCFF on grant basis. 
 
6. 
“Coordination Unit” means an organizational unit within MOH referred to in 
Section I(A)(2) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 
7. 
“Disbursement Linked Indicator” or “DLI” means in respect of Category (2), each 
of the indicators related to said Category as set forth in the table in Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
 
8. 
“Eligible Expenditures Program” means Eligible Expenditures incurred by the 
Borrower for the implementation of Part 2.1 of the Project, financed through the 
following budget code:  Manpower Development (4605-601), Program: 
Manpower Development (4605); Activity: human resources management, training 
and qualifying (601). 
 
9. 
“Expenditure Verification” means, for Part 1 of the Project, a financial audit of 
expenditures paid by MOH for the services utilized and produced by the Audit 
Bureau. 
 
-2- 
 
10. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated December 14, 2018, with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
11. 
“Global Concessional Financing Facility” and “GCFF” each means the financing 
facility established with a focus on providing concessional financing to middle 
income countries most affected by the presence of large numbers of refugees, with 
an initial focus on the Syrian refugee crisis as it impacts Jordan and Lebanon, and 
referred to in the Preamble to this Agreement. 
 
12. 
“Health Care Service Delivery Expenditure Report” means, for Part 1 of the 
Project, a report prepared by the Borrower indicating the amounts to be claimed 
from the Loan for the Target Population, as calculated by multiplying unit costs 
(derived from the Expenditure Verification) by the number of eligible services 
performed (derived from the Utilization Verification).   
 
13. 
“Health Care Service Delivery Expenditures” means selected expenditures of 
MOH for providing primary and secondary health care services, agreed with the 
Bank, financed though the following budget codes:  Primary Health Care: 4610-
601; Program: Primary Health Care/ Health Services Centers (4610) Activity: 
Providing Primary Health Services (601); and Secondary Health Care: 4615-
601; Program: Secondary Health Care/ Hospitals (4615) Activity: Providing 
Secondary Health Services (601). 
 
14. 
“Loan” means the aggregate of the Concessional Portion of the Loan and the Non-
Concessional Portion of the Loan as set forth in Section 2.01 of this Agreement. 
 
15. 
“MOH” means the Borrower’s ministry in charge of health.  
 
16. 
“MOI Cards” means a Ministry of the Interior Service Card issued by the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Interior (or any successor thereto).  
 
17. 
“MOPIC” means the Borrower’s ministry in charge of planning and international 
cooperation. 
 
18. 
“MOSD” means the Borrower’s ministry responsible for social development. 
 
19. 
“Original Financing Agreement" means the financing agreement for the Jordan 
Emergency Health Project between the Borrower and the World Bank, dated June 
23, 2018 (Loan Number: T8768-JO and GCFF TF Number TF0A5308), as 
amended.   
20. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in Schedule 1 to the Original 
Financing Agreement.  
-3- 
 
21. 
 “POM” means the project operations manual for the Project, to be adopted by the 
Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, and referred to in Section I.C. of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement, describing and setting forth procedures for implementation of 
the Project and institutional arrangements, consistent with the provisions of this 
Agreement and including, among other things, the fiduciary, technical and 
operational aspects and procedures for implementation of the Project, including 
the financial management procedures, procurement procedures, monitoring and 
evaluation arrangements, verification arrangements, other fiduciary and 
administrative arrangements, as the same may be amended from time to time by 
agreement with the Bank. 
 
22. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated 
May 21, 2018, and provided for under Section IV of the Procurement Regulations, 
as the same may be updated from time to time in agreement with the Bank. 
 
23. 
“Procurement Regulations” means the “World Bank Procurement Regulations for 
Borrowers under Investment Project Financing”, dated July 1, 2016, revised 
August and November 2018 
 
24. 
“Reported Period” means consecutive periods of six months each for which the 
Borrower provides Utilization Verification and Expenditure Report under 
Component 1 of the Project.  
 
25. 
“Target Population” means: (a) Syrian refugees who have been issued with MOI 
Cards; and (b) Jordanians who: (i) do not have health insurance; and (ii) (A) who 
are classified as ‘poor’ according to MOSD’s database; or (B) whose copayment 
for treatment is covered by the Borrower’s Royal Court due to inability to pay. 
 
26. 
“Training” means costs incurred by the Borrower on account of approved 
workshops, and training of Borrower personnel involved in implementation of the 
Project, including study tours, travel and subsistence costs for training participants, 
costs associated with securing the services of trainers, rental of training facilities, 
preparation and reproduction of training materials, and other costs directly related 
to course preparation and implementation, all on the basis of budgets acceptable to 
the Bank. 
 
27. 
“Utilization Verification” means, for Part 1 of the Project, an independent 
verification of the reported services utilized by the Target Population at primary 
and secondary MOH facilities, in the form of a formal report on the total number 
of outpatient and inpatient services provided to the Target Population, and 
produced by the UVE. 
 
28. 
“UVE” means the independent utilization verification entity, satisfactory to the 
Bank, hired under the Project to conduct the Utilization Verification.  
 
-4- 
 
29. 
“WHO” means the World Health Organization.  
 
 
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
 
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows: 
 
1. 
Wherever used throughout the General Conditions, the term “Loan Payment” is 
modified to read “Payment of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan”. 
Furthermore, wherever used in Sections 3.02 to 3.08; Section 3.10; Section 4.01; 
Section 4.02 to 4.05 (including the Title); and Section 9.05, the term “the Loan” is 
modified to read “the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan”; the term 
“Unwithdrawn Loan Balance” is modified to read “Unwithdrawn Balance of the 
Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan”; and the term “Withdrawn Loan Balance” 
is modified to read “Withdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the 
Loan”. 
 
2. 
In Section 2.07, Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee 
and Interest, the term “the Loan” in paragraph (a) and the term “the Loan” after 
“other charges on” in paragraph (c) of, is deleted and replaced with “the Non-
Concessional Portion of the Loan”. 
 
3. 
In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section 
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below. 
 
4. 
Section 3.01. 
(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge 
 
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Non-Concessional 
Portion of the Loan at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the 
“Front-end Fee”). 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the 
Unwithdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan at the 
rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the “Commitment Charge”).  The 
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of 
the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are 
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled.  The 
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each 
Payment Date.” 
 
5. 
In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and 
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth above.  
 
-5- 
 
6. 
Wherever used in the following definitions of the terms “Conversion”; “Currency 
Conversion”; “Default Interest Period”; “Default Interest Rate”; “Default Variable 
Rate”; “Fixed Rate”; “Fixed Reference Rate”; “Fixed Spread”; “Interest Rate 
Cap”; “Interest Rate Conversion”; “Principal Payment Date”; “Reference Rate 
Reset Date”; “Screen Rate”; “Variable Rate”; “Variable Spread”; “Variable Spread 
Fixing Charge”; the term “the Loan” is modified to read “the Non-Concessional 
Portion of the Loan”; the term “Unwithdrawn Loan Balance” is modified to read 
“the Unwithdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan”; and the 
term “Withdrawn Loan Balance” is modified to read “Withdrawn Balance of the 
Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan”. 
 
7. 
The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following 
definition of “Commitment Charge”, and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs 
accordingly: 
“19. 
“Commitment Charge” means the commitment charge specified in the 
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b).” 
 
8. 
In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the 
definition of “Front-end Fee” is modified by replacing the reference to Section 
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a). 
 
9. 
In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the 
definition of the term “Loan Payment” is modified to read as follows: 
 
“68. 
“Loan Payment” means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the 
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including 
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any 
prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of 
a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable 
upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any 
Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower.” 
10. 
A new paragraph 73 with the following definition of “Non-Concessional Portion 
of the Loan” is added to the Appendix, and the remaining paragraphs are 
renumbered accordingly: 
 
“73. 
“Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan” means portion of the Loan 
provided to the Borrower on non-concessional terms in the Loan Agreement.” 
11. 
In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the 
definition of “Payment Date” is modified by deleting the word “is” and inserting 
the words “and Commitment Charge are” after the word “interest”. 
 
-6- 
 
12. 
In the renumbered paragraph 94 (originally paragraph 92) of the Appendix, the 
definition of “Unwithdrawn Loan Balance” is modified to read as follows: 
 
 
“94. 
“Unwithdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan” 
means the amount of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan remaining 
unwithdrawn from the Loan Account from time to time.” 
 
13. 
In the renumbered paragraph 98 (originally paragraph 96) of the Appendix, the 
definition of “Withdrawn Loan Balance” is modified to read as follows: 
 
“98. 
“Withdrawn Loan Balance” means the amounts of the: (i) Non-
Concessional Portion of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account and 
outstanding from time to time; plus (ii) Concessional Portion of the Loan 
withdrawn from the Loan Account from time to time.” 
 
14. 
A new paragraph 99 with the following definition of “Withdrawn Balance of the 
Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan” is added to the Appendix, and the 
remaining paragraphs are renumbered accordingly: 
 
 
“99. 
“Withdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan” means 
the amounts of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan withdrawn from the 
Loan Account and outstanding from time to time.” 
