OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8975-PE
Loan Agreement
(Improving the Performance of Non-Criminal Justice Services Project 
Programa de Mejoramiento de los Servicios de Justicia no penales a travis de la
implementacitn del Expediente Judicial Electr6nico (EJE))
between
REPUBLIC OF PERU
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
1
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between the REPUBLIC OF PERU
("Borrower") 
and 
the 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I -
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II- LOAN
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of eighty-five million Dollars (USD
85,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule I to this
Agreement ("Project").
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower's Representative for purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is the Borrower's Minister
of Economy and Finance or the Borrower's Director of Indebtedness and Public Treasury,
or any person whom any of them shall designate in writing.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. 
The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. 
The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE III -
PROJECT
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower, through the UE-MINJUSDH, shall carry out Part 1.2, Part 1.3, Part 2.2, Part 2.3,
Part 3.1 and partially Parts 4.2 and 4.3 of the Project, and through the PJ (acting through
the UE-PJ) shall carry out Part 1.1, Part 2.1, Part 3.2, Part 4.1, and partially Parts 4.2 and
4.3 of the Project, all in coordination with the Participating Institutions, and in accordance
with Article V of the General Conditions and Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
3.02. 
According to Section 3.01 above, the Borrower, through the UE-MINJUSDH, shall carry
out all Project Investments related to MINJUSDH, TC and JNJ, and through the PJ (acting
through the UE-PJ) shall carry out all Project Investments related to PJ and AMAG.
ARTICLE IV -
REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) 
The Borrower or any authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any action
concerning the Participating Institutions that would materially affect, in the
opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Participating Institutions to carry out any of
their respective obligations under the Project.
(b) 
The PJ shall have failed to take any action to enable the Borrower to comply with
its obligations as applicable to the PJ.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that any event
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of ninety
(90) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V -
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE VI- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. 
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance, provided that the
Borrower's Director of Public Treasury, may, by him or herself, represent the Borrower to
sign amendments and/or notices to this Agreement which are considered of an
administrative and non-financial nature. The signing by such Director of an amendment
and/or notice shall constitute a representation by the Borrower that any such amendment
and/or notice is considered to be administrative and non-financial in nature.
6.02. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower's address is:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Jr. Junin 319
Lima, Peru
Facsimile: +51(1) 626-9921
2
6.03. 
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank's address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank's Electronic Address is:
Telex: 
Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
REPUBLIC OF PERU
By
_ 
e 
eprsentative
Name: 0A A 
N wP0 aA AM.
Title: RIV 
p- 
i~o 
M2I twativ ~
Date: 
2 7 NOV '2D19
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
-
Authorized 
presentative
Name: 
OAKkANW6 ]EM
Title: a 
CA[ 
Date: 
PMeIbNMi 71 2P{'W?
3
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve efficiency, access, transparency, and user
satisfaction, in the delivery of adequate non-criminal justice services.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Strengthening the institutionality of the non-criminal justice administration system
Provision of support to the Participating Institutions to design and implement a new organizational
framework and management processes for the Participating Institutions, based on the
implementation of the EJE.
1.1.Design and Implementation of EJE in the PJ.
Designing and implementing the EJE, including, inter alia: (a) a comprehensive review and
redesign of existing jurisdictional and administrative processes (including EJE pilots) based on data
and in consultation with relevant stakeholders (judges, lawyers and citizens participating in judicial
processes), in order to identify and eliminate existing inefficiencies; (b) design, development and
implementation of a scale-up of the EJE to courts nationwide; (c) training programs forjudicial and
administrative personnel on the new processes and operations of the EJE platform; (d) design and
implementation of a legal framework for the interoperability of processes and information systems
with other institutions; (e) carrying out an impact evaluation and user satisfaction surveys to
measure the reform's results, including gender disaggregated information to identify gender gaps
and inform specific actions to enhance women's experiences when seeking justice; and (f) design
and implementation of a strategy for improving transparency and access to information in the
Judiciary, including: (i) publication of all judicial decisions in an easily accessible format to be
produced by the EJE; (ii) creation of an indexed and systematic body of jurisprudence; (iii)
publication of information about judges and prosecutors such as CVs and financial and interest
declarations; and (iv) publication of annual reports with information on the performance and
activities of the courts.
1.2. Improving processes and information systems of the TC.
Provision of support to the TC to enhance its management model to adapt procedures to the EJE
and increase the efficiency and transparency of its service delivery, including inter alia: (a) a review
and redesign of processes and strengthening of information systems - especially the SIGE - within
the TC to ensure interoperability with the EJE platform; and (b) a review and adaptation of
technological infrastructure and office space in the TC according to the renewed organizational
model and including energy efficiency improvements in existing facilities through the installation
of more efficient lighting and equipment.
4
1.3. Improving processes and information systems of the JNJ.
Provision of support to the JNJ to enhance its management model, processes and information
systems to increase its efficiency and transparency and better adapt to the reform of the justice
sector including, inter alia: (a) the development of management processes for the efficient,
transparent and accountable operations of the JNJ; and (b) strengthening of information systems of
the JNJ to support the new processes.
Part 2: Improving the production, analysis and use of information of the justice
administration system
Provision of support to the Participating Institutions to strengthen performance management,
accountability, integrity and internal control mechanisms in the justice sector.
2.1. Strengthening mechanisms of monitoring, control, and performance management in the
justice administration system institutions.
Provision of support to the PJ to strengthen its performance management processes and systems
through, inter alia: (a) improving the quality of information and developing indicators to monitor
and evaluate performance in the Judiciary (including allocation of budgets, human resources and
infrastructure); (b) developing data analytics capacity in the PJ to use and analyze data from the
EJE and other sources to inform decisions and improvements in courts and other areas; and (c)
developing the operational model and processes for improved integrity and control.
2.2. Strengthening performance management of the TC.
Provision of support to the TC to strengthen performance management through, inter alia: (a) the
design and implementation of a monitoring and evaluation system with good quality information;
and (b) the enhancement of the SIGE as the supporting tool to monitor case processing and staff
performance in the TC.
2.3. Strengthening performance management of the JNJ.
Provision of support to the JNJ to deliver on its mandate as the institution responsible for the
selection, appointment, evaluation, and sanctioning of judges, and for establishing a disciplinary
framework and integrity standards for the justice sector as a whole, including, inter alia: (a)
provision of technical assistance on applying processes for the selection, appointment, and
sanctioning ofjudges; and (b) the development and application of protocols and management tools
for the performance evaluation of judges, including the use of performance information from the
EJE.
Part 3: Reducing socio-economic, cultural and geographic barriers to access to justice for
vulnerable populations
Provision of support to programs and initiatives that provide justice services to vulnerable
populations.
5
3.1. Improving the capacity of the justice administration system in the provision of free legal
aid and representation through the ALEGRAs.
Provision of support to strengthen the management and capacity to provide free legal aid and
representation of the ALEGRAs in order to increase the coverage and quality of their services,
including, inter alia: (a) an in-depth and detailed analysis of existing barriers and shortcomings
affecting the coverage and quality of services, including cases of child support, gender-based
violence, domestic violence and others; (b) the design and implementation of a demand-driven
management model to address the barriers and shortcomings identified in the analysis above,
including the improvement of relevant information systems and the design and implementation of
strategies for increasing the coverage and quality of services; (c) rehabilitation or refurbishing of
existing physical facilities to enhance services for a larger clientele, including meeting universal
accessibility standards for persons with disabilities, making them climate-resilient and using
energy-efficient appliances and equipment; (d) provision of training and capacity building activities
for the ALEGRA personnel; (e) coordination and interoperability with other institutions providing
similar services, including the centers run by the Borrower's Ministry of Women and Social
Development and the National System of Specialized Justice for the Protection and Punishment of
Violence against Women; and (f) an impact evaluation and user satisfaction surveys to monitor and
enhance the quality of services.
3.2. Improving the design and implementation of alternative mechanisms of justice service
delivery.
Provision of support to the Participating Institutions to improve the design and implementation of
alternative mechanisms of justice service delivery, especially through a mobile justice delivery
mechanism (justicia itinerante), in order to increase the coverage and improve the quality of
services including, inter alia: (a) documenting and analyzing the ongoing initiative to improve the
design of a national mobile justice delivery mechanism; (b) developing the normative framework,
guidelines and tools to scale up the program and deliver more effective services; (c) providing
training and capacity building for relevant personnel in the PJ and associated bodies; and (d)
supporting the implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the program.
Part 4: Improving efficiency and efficacy of the justice administration system institutions
Provision of support to the Participating Institutions in capacity building, change management and
program management of the reform process.
4.1. Improving the training programs of the AMAG.
Provision of support to the AMAG to enhance its management model and training programs
through, inter alia: (a) a review and modernization of the AMAG's management model and
processes to adapt to the organizational reform of the justice sector, including through improving
the planning, monitoring and evaluation of the AMAG's activities; (b) the review, redesign and
putting online of training and knowledge management programs, based on diagnoses and needs
assessments aimed at all levels of staff, in both judicial and administrative functions; (c) the
enhancement of the AMAG's information systems, technological infrastructure, and office space
6
to deploy the renewed training programs; and (d) implementation of an impact evaluation of the
training programs.
4.2. Change management.
Provision of support to the Participating Institutions for: (a) implementation of change management
activities in the Judiciary to facilitate the implementation of the EJE; (b) implementation of change
management activities in the TC and provision of training to the TC's staff on the new processes
and the use of information systems; (c) implementation of change management activities in the
AMAG; (d) implementation of change management activities and training in the JNJ to facilitate
the reforms; and (e) support to the JNJ for the improvement of profiles ofjudges.
4.3. Project management.
Provision of support to the Participating Institutions for operational support to the UE-MINJUSDH
and UE-PJ for undertaking planning, financial management, procurement, safeguards, and
monitoring and evaluation activities.
7
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements.
1. 
For purposes of complying with its obligations referred to in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall promptly transfer the proceeds of the Loan to the PJ through
its budgetary mechanisms and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
2. 
Project Committee
The Borrower, through the Participating Institutions, shall, not later than thirty (30) days
after the Effective Date, create and thereafter maintain, at all times, until the completion of
the Project, a steering committee (Steering Committee), with membership, structure,
functions and responsibilities as set forth in the Operational Manual, which shall be
responsible, inter alia, for: (a) providing overall policy and strategic guidance to ensure
timely 
Project 
implementation; 
and 
(b) 
ensuring appropriate 
inter-institutional
coordination among the Participating Institutions, and promoting the resolution of any
issues which may affect Project implementation pursuant to the provisions of this
Agreement.
3. 
Project Implementing Units
(a) 
The Borrower, through MINJUSDH, shall maintain, at all times until the
completion of the Project, a Project executing unit (UE-MINJUSDH), within
MINJUSDH, responsible for the implementation of MINJUSDH's, TC's and
JNJ's respective activities under the Project, as set forth in the Operational Manual.
(b) 
The Borrower, through MINJUSDH, shall take all necessary measures to maintain
the UE-MINJUSDH staffed, at all times throughout Project implementation, by
qualified and experienced technical and administrative staff in adequate numbers,
with the core functions required for the effective implementation of the Project
(including a Project coordinator, a procurement specialist and a financial
management specialist), all with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
(c) 
The Borrower, through MfNJUSDH, shall ensure that, not later than ninety (90)
days after the Effective Date, a procurement and a financial management specialist
are hired to work full time within UE-MINJUSDH, under terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank.
(d) 
The Borrower, through the PJ (acting through the UE-PJ) shall maintain, at all
times until the completion of the Project, a Project executing unit (UE-PJ), within
the Judiciary, responsible for the implementation of PJ's and AMAG's respective
activities under the Project, as set forth in the Operational Manual.
8
(e) 
The Borrower, through the PJ (acting through the UE-PJ) shall maintain the UE-
PJ staffed, at all times throughout Project implementation, by qualified and
experienced technical and administrative staff in adequate numbers, with the core
functions required for the effective implementation of the Project (including a
Project coordinator, a procurement specialist and a financial management
specialist), all with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
(f) 
The Borrower through the PJ (acting through the UE-PJ) shall hire, not later than
ninety (90) days after the Effective Date, a procurement and a financial
management specialist to work full time within UE-PJ, under terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank.
4. 
Project Operational Manual
(a) 
The Borrower, through the UE-MINJUSDH and through the PJ (acting through
the UE-PJ) shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of a manual
satisfactory to the Bank (the Operational Manual), which shall include, inter alia,
the following provisions: (i) detailed terms of reference, procedures and timetable
for the establishment and maintenance of financial management, accounting and
auditing systems under the Project; (ii) procedures, requirements and standard
bidding documents for the procurement of minor works, goods and consultants'
services financed under the Project; (iii) institutional and administrative
mechanisms established to ensure inter-institutional coordination, including the
terms of reference and functions and responsibilities of the Participating
Institutions and Steering Committee, the UE-MINJUSDH, and the UE-PJ; (iv)
terms of reference and procedures for the monitoring and evaluation of Project
implementation; (v) the Project indicators; and (vi) the EMF and the IPPF.
(b) 
Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree in writing, the
Borrower, through the UE-MINJUSDH, and through the PJ (acting through the
UE-PJ) shall not abrogate, amend, suspend, waive or otherwise fail to enforce the
Operational Manual or any provision thereof.
(c) 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and this
Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement will prevail.
B. 
Institutional Agreements.
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of Part 1.2, Part 1.3, Part 2.2, Part 2.3, Part 4.1, and partially
Parts 4.2 and 4.3 of the Project, the Borrower, shall:
(a) 
not later than ninety (90) days after the Effective Date, through MINJUSDH, enter
into an agreement with the TC (the TC Cooperation Agreement), under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank, including, inter alia, TC's responsibilities and
obligations in relation to the Project.
(b) 
not later than thirty (30) days after all the JNJ members have been appointed,
through MINJUSDH, enter into an agreement with the JNJ (the JNJ Cooperation
9
Agreement), under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, including, inter
alia, JNJ's responsibilities and obligations in relation to the Project.
(c) 
through MINJUSDH, exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the TC
and JNJ Cooperation Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through MINJUSDH shall not assign,
amend, abrogate, waive, terminate or fail to enforce the TC and JNJ Cooperation
Agreements or any of their provisions.
(d) 
not later than ninety (90) days after the Effective Date, through the PJ (acting
through the UE-PJ) shall enter into an agreement with the AMAG (the AMAG
Cooperation Agreement), under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank
including, inter alia, AMAG's responsibilities and obligations in relation to the
Project.
(e) 
through the PJ (acting through the UE-PJ) shall exercise its rights and carry out its
obligations under the AMAG Cooperation Agreement in such manner as to protect
the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower through the PJ
(acting through the UE-PJ) shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive, terminate or
fail to enforce the AMAG Cooperation Agreement or any of its provisions.
C. 
Safeguards.
1. 
The Borrower, through the UE-MINJUSDH and through the PJ (acting through the UE-
PJ) shall implement the Project in accordance with the Environmental Management
Framework and the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework, and any environmental
management plans or indigenous peoples plans as applicable.
2. 
The Borrower, through the UE-MINJUSDH and through the PJ (acting through the UE-
PJ) shall ensure that the terms of reference for any consultancies related to the technical
assistance provided under the Project, shall be acceptable to the Bank and, to that end, such
terms of reference shall require that the advice conveyed through such technical assistance
be consistent with the requirements of the Bank's Safeguard Policies.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reportin2 and Evaluation
The Borrower, through the PJ (acting through the UE-PJ) shall furnish to the Bank, with a copy to
the Borrower's Direcci6n General de Inversi6n Ptiblica del MEF, the Project Reports not later than
forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar semester.
10
Section III. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in
accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to finance Eligible Expenditures in the amount allocated
and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category of the following
table:
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated 
to be financed
(expressed in USD) 
(exclusive of Taxes)
(1) 
Goods, 
works, 
non-
consulting services, training 
85,000,000 
100%
and consulting services for the
Project
TOTAL AMOUNT 
85,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made for payments
made prior to the Signature Date.
2. 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2024.
Section IV. Other undertakings
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 5.03 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall
make available all necessary counterparts funds for the implementation of the Project activities by
UE-MINJUSDH and UE-PJ.
11
SCHEDULE 3
Customized Amortization Repayment Schedule
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan as follows:
Commitment Principal Repayments
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share
September 15, 2025 
6 
March 15, 2026 
12%
September 15, 2026 
12%
March 15, 2027 
35 
September 15, 2027 
35 
12
APPENDIX
Definitions
1. 
"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption
in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006
and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.
2. 
"ALEGRA" means Centros de Asistencia Legal Gratuita, the Borrower's legal aid centers
administered by MINJUSDH that provide free legal, social and psychological support to
low income populations.
3. 
"AMAG" means Academia de la Magistratura, the Borrower's judicial and prosecutorial
academy established and operating pursuant to the provisions of Article 151 of the
Borrower's Constitution and AMAG's Organic Law (as hereinafter defined), or any
successor or successors thereto acceptable to the Bank.
4. 
"AMAG Cooperation Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 1.B. 1(d) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
5. 
"AMAG's Organic Law" means Ley Orgdnica de la Academia de la Magistratura, the
Borrower's Law No. 26335 dated July 20, 1994, duly published in the Borrower's Official
Gazette dated July 21, 1994, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
6. 
"Bank's Safeguards Policies" means the Bank operational policies and procedures set forth
in the Bank's Operational Manual under OPs/BPs 4.01, 4.04, 4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.36,
and 4.37, as said manual is published under www.WorldBank.org/opmanual.
7. 
"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IIl.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
8. 
"EJE" means the Expediente Judicial Electr6nico, the Borrower's justice reform initiative
aiming to make justice services more efficient and transparent through the transition to
electronic judicial files and reforms of management models and processes of the system of
justice administration.
9. 
"Environmental Management Framework" or "EMF" means the Borrower's Marco de
Gesti6n Ambiental, acceptable to the Bank, dated December 1, 2018, setting out the
principles, rules, guidelines and procedures to be followed to screen and assess the potential
adverse environmental and social risks and impacts of activities under the Project,
including the measures to avoid, reduce, mitigate or offset environmental and social, risks
and impacts of such activities, and the procedural, budget and institutional arrangements
and actions needed to implement these measures, and information on the agency or
agencies responsible for addressing the risks and impacts; as such framework may be
amended from time to time, with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
13
10. 
"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing", dated December
14, 2018.
I1. 
"Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework" or "IPPF" means the Borrower's Marco para
los Pueblos Indigenas, acceptable to the Bank, dated December 1, 2018, that assesses the
potential positive and adverse effects of the activities implemented under Part 3 of the
Project, and proposes a set of actions to be taken to ensure that said activities are respectful
of the rights of indigenous peoples, and that free, prior, and informed consultations with
the affected indigenous peoples' communities take place at each stage of project
preparation and implementation, including the preparation of indigenous peoples plans; as
such framework may be amended from time to time, with the prior written agreement of
the Bank.
12. 
"IT" means information technology.
13. 
"JNJ" means Junta Nacional de Justicia, the Borrower's National Justice Board,
established by the JNJ Organic Law (as hereinafter defined) with the mandate of being
responsible for the selection, appointment, evaluation, and sanctioning (including removal)
of judges, and for establishing a disciplinary framework and integrity standards for the
Borrower's justice sector as a whole.
14. 
"JNJ Cooperation Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 3.B.1(b) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
15. 
"JNJ's Organic Law" means the Borrower's Law No. 30916 dated February 18, 2019,
published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on February 19, 2019, setting forth the
organization, roles and responsibilities of the JNJ.
16. 
"Judiciary" or "PJ" means Poder Judicial, the Borrower's judicial branch responsible for
administering and delivering judicial services in the Borrower's territory, pursuant to the
provisions of Chapter VIII of the Constitution, and the provisions of the Judiciary's
Organic Law (as hereinafter defined).
17. 
"Judiciary's Organic Law" means Texto Onico Ordenado de la Ley Orgdnica del Poder
Judicial, the Borrower's Supreme Decree No. 017-93-JUS dated May 28, 1993, published
in the Borrower's Official Gazette on June 3, 1993, setting forth the organization, roles and
responsibilities of the Judiciary, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
18. 
"MEF" means Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas, the Borrower's Ministry of Economy
and Finance, and any successor or successors thereto acceptable to the Bank.
19. 
"MINJUSDH" means Ministerio de Justicia y Derechos Humanos, the Borrower's
Ministry of Justice, regulated by MINJUSDH Organic Law (as hereinafter defined), or any
successor or successors thereto acceptable to the Bank.
14
20. 
"MINJUSDH's Organic Law" means Ley de Organizacidn y Funciones del Ministerio de
Justicia y Derechos Humanos, the Borrower's Law No. 29809 dated December 7, 2011,
duly published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on December 8, 2011, as amended to the
date of this Agreement.
21. 
"National System of Specialized Justice for the Protection and Punishment of Violence
against Women" means Sistema Nacional Especializado de Justicia para la Proteccidn y
Sanci6n de la Violencia contra las Mujeres e Integrantes del Grupo Familiar, the
Borrower's integrated and specialized system formed by the Judiciary, the Attorney
General's Office, the National Police, the Ministry of Justice, and the Ministry of Women
and Vulnerable Populations to improve the processes, services and outcome on matters of
justice related to the protection and sanction of violence against women, established under
the Legislative Decree (Decreto Ley) No. 1368 dated July 29, 2018.
22. 
"Operational Manual" means the Borrower's manual dated March 28, 2019, acceptable to
the Bank, referred to in Section I.A.4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as said manual may
be amended from time to time, with the agreement of the Bank.
23. 
"Participating Institution" means any of the following institutions within the Borrower's
justice sector: AMAG, JNJ, the Judiciary, MINJUSDH, and TC, approved by the Bank for
participation under the Project.
24. 
"Procurement Regulations" means, for purposes of paragraph 87 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF Borrowers", dated
July 2016, revised November 2017.
25. 
"Project Investments" means the Project activities under the responsibility of each
Participating Institution.
26. 
"SIGE" means Sistema Integrado de Gesti6n de Expedientes, the Borrower's integrated
case management system in the TC.
27. 
"Signature Date" means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to "the date of the Loan
Agreement" in the General Conditions.
28. 
"Steering Committee" means Comitj Directivo del Proyecto, the committee referred to in
Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
29. 
"TC" means Tribunal Constitucional, the Borrower's Constitutional Court, established and
operating pursuant to the provisions of the Borrower's Constitution and TC's Organic Law
(as hereinafter defined), or any successor or successors thereto acceptable to the Bank.
30. 
"TC Cooperation Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.B.1(a) of
Schedule 2 to this agreement.
15
31. 
"TC's Organic Law" means Ley Orgdnica del Tribunal Constitucional, the Borrower's
Law No. 28301 dated July 22, 2004, duly published in the Borrower's Official Gazette
dated July 23, 2004, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
32. 
"UE-MINJUSDH" means the Project Executing Unit (Programa Modernizaci6n del
Sistema de Administraci6n de Justicia, Unidad Ejecutora 003 del Ministerio de Justicia y
Derechos Humanos) referred to in Section I.A.3(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, with
functions and responsibilities set forth in the Operational Manual, or any successor or
successors thereto acceptable to the Bank.
33. 
"UE-PJ" means the Project Executing Unit (Oficina de Coordinaci6n de Proyectos - UE-
002-PJ) within the Judiciary, referred to in Section I.A.3(d) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, with functions and responsibilities set forth in the Operational Manual, or any
successor or successors thereto acceptable to the Bank.
16
