Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

<”
&
4
@
&
r |
. > * ‘. - , ake
* .
ag t
* ,
‘ ~F * t 7 7 ‘ a) :
~ 5 2 . t
a 7 Se “
¥ . +, .
e r’ aa * s a " ‘
3. OF ‘ . ‘Fay.
. arid . at » ag vo t aot .
{ ai e vy + ®
‘ere “ty . i
. a
A a Te SS a ASW Ps Ss S aaS aDeeeneeer amen en
TT nas. ~: 2
. at
=~, ~?

LOAN NUMBER 3226 PAK
oR 21S$%-fFAk

Loan Agreement

(Agricultural Credit Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated .5/ ol ewe be 283 . 1990

 

 

 
LOAN NUMBER 3226 PAK
LOAN AGREEMENT

~

AGREEMENT, dated SB elim br c& , 1990, between

ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKYSTAN acting by its President (the

Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing
of Parts A, B and E of the Project;

(B) the Borrower has also requested the International
Development Association (the Association) to provide additional
assistance towards the financing of Parts C and D of the Project
and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and
the Association (the Development Credit Agreement), the Associa-
tion is agreeing ~o provide such assistance in an aggregate prin-
cipal amount equivalent to one million two hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,200,000) (the Credit);

(C) the Borrower intends to contract from the International
Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) a loan (the IFAD Loan) in
an amount equivalent to nineteen million Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 19,000,000) to assist in Financing Parts A, B and E of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
IFAD Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
IFAD;

(D) the Borrower also intends to contract from the Asian
Development Bank (ADB) a loan (the ADB Loan) in an amount equiva-
lent to one hundred fifty million dollars ($150,000,000) to assist
in financing Parts A, B and E of the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (the ADB Loan Agreement) to
be entered into between the Borrower and ADB;

(E) Parts A, B and E of the Project will be carried out by
the Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan (ADBP) and the
Nationalized Commercial Banks as hereinafter defined (NCBs) with |
the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to ADBP and NCBs the proceeds of the
Loan as provided in this Agreement: and | |

 
-2-

WHEREAS the bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith among the Bank, ADBP and NCBs;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:

(a) "“ADBP" means the Agricultural Development Bank of
Pakistan, established by the Borrower under the Borrower's
Agricultural Development Bank Ordinance, 1961, as amended from
time to time;

(b) “ABL" means the Allied Bank Limited, established and
existing under the Borrower's Companies Ordinance, 1984, as
amended from time to time;

(c) "HBL" means the Habib Bank Limited, established and
existing under the Borrower's Companies Ordinance, 1984, as
anended from time to time;

(d) "MCB" means the Muslim Commercial Bank Limited,
established and existing under the Borrower's Companies Ordinance,
1984, as amended from time to time;

(e) “NBP" means the National Bank of Pakistan Limited,
established and existing under the Borrower’s National Bank of
Pakistan Ordinance, 1949, as amended from time to tine;

(£) “UBL" means the United Bank Limited, established and
existing under the Borrower’s Companies Ordinance, 1984, as
amended from time to time;
-3-

(g) "NCBs" mean collectively the Nationalized Commercial
Banks, being ABL, HBL, MCB, NBP and UBL, and "NCB" means each and
any of the Nationalized Commercial Banks:

(h) "“PCIs" mean collectively the Participating Credit Insti-
tutions, being ADBP and NCBs, and “PCI" means individually each
and any of the Participating Credit Institutions;

(1) "Project Agreement" means the agreement among the Bank
and PCIs of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement:

(j) "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" mean collectively the
agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and PCIs pur-
suant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements; |

(k) "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of
even date herewith between the Borrower and the Association for
Parts C and D of the Project, as such agreement may be amended
from time to time; and such term includes the "General Conditions
Applicable to Development Credit Agreements" of the Association,
dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such agreement, and all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Development Credit
Agreement;

(1) "MCO" means a mobile credit officer of ADBP:

(m) "VA" means a village assistant of ADBP:

(n) "ACO" means an agricultural credit officer of a NCB;
(0) "NGO" means a non-governmental organization;

(p) “short-term credit" means credit with a maturity of less
than eighteen months;

(q) "medium-term credit" means credit with a maturity of
eighteen months or more but not more than five years;

(xr) “long-term credit" means credit with a maturity of more
than five years;

 
-4-

(s) "SBP" means the State Bank of Pakistan, being che
Borrower’s central bank established under the State Bank of
Pakistan Act, 1956 of the Borrower, as amended from time to time:

(t) "PBC" means the Pakistan Banking Council established and
operating under the Borrower’s Banks (Nationalization) Act, 1974,
as amended from time to time;

(u) “ha." means an irrigated hectare (with one hectare so
defined to be deemed to be the equivalent of two rainfed
hectares) ;

(v) “the landless" means persons owning assets other than
land not exceeding the equivalent in local market value of 2.5 ha.
of land;

(w) "Rs" and “rupees” mean the currency of the Borrower; and

(x) "FY" and "fiscal year“ mean, in the case of the Borrower
and ADBP, the period July 1 through June 30, and, in the case of
NCBs, the period January 1 through December 31.

ARTICLE II
The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment, varlous currencies that shall have an aggregate value equi-
valent to the amount of one hundred forty-eight million five
hundred thousand dollars ($148,500,000) being the sum of with-
drawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for Parts A, B and E of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
- 5 -

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.

section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section ?.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
Shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

'(c) For the purposes of this Section:

(i) “Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
on the date immediately preceding each date speci-
fied in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, beginning
with the Interest Period in which this Agreement is
Signed.

(ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as
a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof
as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's
investments; and (B) loans which may be made by the
Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates
determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph
(a) of this Section.

(iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the second
six months of a calendar year.

(d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii)
of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from

 
-6-

time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percerit
(1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
preceding Jnterest Period, calculated at the rates
applicable during such Interest Period."

"(b) AS soon as practicable after the end of each
Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
Quarter."

"€c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1
in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

Section 2.08. The Chief Executive Officers of PCIs or their
nominees are designated as representatives of the Borrower for the
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions in respect of their respective
areas of responsibility under Parts A, B and E of the Project.

ARTICLE ITI
Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall
cause PCIs to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement all the obligations of PCIs therein set forth,
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provi-
sion of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary
or appropriate to enable PCIs to perform such obligations, and
shall net take or permit to be taken any action which would pre-.
vent or interfere with such performance.
-7-

(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to
PCIs under subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between
the Borrower and PCIs, under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Bank which shall include: (i) a rate of
return equivalent to the interest rate applicable to the Loan
pursuant to Section 2.05 of this Agreement; (ii) repayment of the
principal amount of the Loan, which shall for this purpose be the
aggregate equivalent of the amounts withdrawn from the Loan
_ Account expressed in rupees determined as of the respective dates
of withdrawals, over a period of twelve years, including a grace
period of three years; and (iii) a requirement that PCIs shall be
and shall continue to be creditworthy to the satisfaction of the
Bank. |

(c) The Borrower shall exercise its Yights under the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or weive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements or any provisions thereof. .

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for Parts A, B and E of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.

Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
Maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of
Parts A, B and E of the Project shall be carried out by PCIs pur-
suant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.

ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which

withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of state-
ments of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

(i) maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
with sound accounting practices, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures:

 
- 8 -

(ii) ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other decuments)
evidencing such expenditures are retained until at
least one year after the Bank has received the
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made; and

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
records.

(b) The Berrower shall:

(i) have the records and accounts referred to in para-
graph (a) (i) of this Section for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank;

(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end of
each such year the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
Statements of expenditure submitted during such
fiscal year, together with the procedures and
internal controls involved in their preparation,
can be relied upon to support the related with-
drawals; and

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
ing said records and accounts and the audit thereof
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.

Section 4.02. The Borrower shall make available to ADBP any
funds required by ADBP, in addition to the proceeds of the Loan
and permissible within the ceilings for monetary expansion set by
SBP, at a rate of return in FY 91, of six percent (6%) per annun,
in FY 92, of seven percent (7%) per annum, and in each fiscal year
thereafter, of seven percent (7%) per annum or such rate per annum
as the Borrower, ADBP and the Bank may agree on after each annual
review of ADBP’ s financial position carried out pursuant to
Section 4.04 (a) of the Project Agreement.

Section 4.03. The Borrower shall not require ADBP to under-
take emergency lending or financing except: (a) in the event of a
major natural calamity; and (b) as a disbursement agent for funds
provided by the Borrower for such purpose.

Section 4.04. The Borrower shall increase ADBP's paid-up
capital, as and when needed, if other measures taken by ADBP prove
inadequate to enable ADBP to maintain its debt/equity ratio at not
greater than 7:1 in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.02
of the Project Agreement. |

Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower shail take steps, satisfactory
to the Bank, to ensure that all lending rates in the agricultural
credit sector shall:

Ci) from July 1, 1990, become, and shall thereafter at
all times remain, at least positive in real terms;
and |

(ii) from July 1, 1992, be at least sufficient to cover
the cost of funds, reasonable administrative costs,
adequate provisions for expected loan losses, and a
reasonable margin of profit, all insofar as
attributable to agricultural credit operations.

{b) For purposes of this section, lending rates in the
agricultural credit sector shall be considered positive in real
terms if, at any time, they exceed the change in the Borrower's
consumer price index (CPI) calculated in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank.

ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank

Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

(a) PCIs shall have failed to perform any of their obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement.

(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that PCIs will be able to
perform their obligations under the Project Agreement.

(c) The Agricultural Development Bank Ordinance, 1961, of
the Borrower or the Charter or Statutes or the Statement of Policy
of any NCB, as the case maybe, shall have been amended, suspended,

 
- 10 -

abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of ADBP or such NCB, as the case may be, to
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.

(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of PCIs or for the suspension of their operations.

Ce) The IFAD Loan Agreement or the ADB Loan Agreement shall
have failed to come into force and effect by December 31, 1990, or
such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that the
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds
for Parts A, B and E of the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.

(£) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the Credit or the IFAD Loan or the
ADB Loan shall have been suspended, cancelled
or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the Development Credit Agreement
or the IFAD Loan Agreement or the ADB Loan
Agreement, as the case may be, or

(B) the Credit or the IFAD Loan or the ADB Loan
shall have become due and payable prior to the
agreed maturity thereof.

(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
terminaticn or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obli-
gations under the Development Credit Agreement or
the IFAD Loan Agreement or the ADB Loan Agreement,
as the case may be; and (B) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
-11-

Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower;

(b) the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur;

(c) the event specified in paragraph (e) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso thereof: and

(d) the event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso
of paragraph (f) (ii) of that Section.

ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination

Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and PCIs.

Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:

(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by PCIs, and is legally binding upon FCIs in accordance
with its terms; and

(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and PCIs and are legally
binding upon the Borrower and PCIs in accordance with their terms.

Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

 
- 12 =-
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this
Agreement, the Secretary to the Government of Pakistan, Economic
Affairs Division, or any Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary,
Deputy Secretary or Section Officer of that Division of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the

purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Economic Affairs Division

Islamabad

Pakistan

Cable address: Telex:
ECONOMIG ECDIV-05-634
Islamabad

For the Bank:

International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development ©

1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address: _ Telex:
INTBAFRAD 197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C. 248423 (RCA)

64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FICC)
- 13 -

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
Signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written. :

ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

_ AM bff,

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

icf ff: Wr hen

By A,
| , “Le Regional Vice President

Europe, Middle East and North Africa

 
1.

(1)

(2)

(3)

Category

- 14 -

SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and th. percent=s* of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in

Credit for farm
tractors extended by:
(a) ADBP

(b) NCBs

Credit for farm

implements extended by:

(a) ADBP
(b) NCBs

Credit for
private minor
irrigation
extended by:

(a) ADBP

(b) NCBs

Dollar Equivalent)

31,900,000

4,600,000

7,400,000

2,500,000

5,800,000

3,900,000

% of
Expenditures
to be Financed

8% of amou .cs
disbursed by ADBP

16% of amounts
disbursed by a NCB

8% of amounts
disbursed by ADBP

16% of amounts
disbursed by a NCB

8% of amounts
disbursed by ADBP

16% of amounts
disbursed by a NCB
-15-

Amount of the

Loan Allocated % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed

 

(4) Credit for other on-farm
development and
small-scale enter-
prise development
extended by ADBP to:

(a) Female
beneficiaries:

(i) being the 2,500,000 16% of amounts
landless or disbursed by ADBP
owning 2.5
ha. of land
or less

(ii) owning more 5,400,000 8% of amounts
than 2.5 ha. disbursed by ADBP
of land

(b) Male bene-
ficiaries:

(i) being the 23,500,000 12% of amounts
landless or disbursed by ADBP
owning 2.5
ha. of land
or less

(ii) owning more 8,800,000 8% of amounts

than 2.5 ha. disbursed by ADBP
of land

(5) Credit for other on-farm
development extended by
NCBs to farmers:

(a) being the 4,400,000 16% of amounts
landless or disbursed by a NCB
owning 2.5 :
ha. of land

or less

 
(6)

Category

(b) owning more
than 2.5 ha.
of land

Incremental
short-term
credit extended
by ADBP to:

(a) Female

beneficiaries:

(i) being the

landless or

owning 2.5

ha. of land

or less

(11)

owning more

- 16 -

Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in

Dollar Equivalent)
13,100,000

500 , 000

200 , 000

than 2.5 ha.

of land

(b) Male bene-
ficiaries:

(i) being the
landless or
owning 2.5
ha. of land
or less

(ii) owning more

than 2.5 ha.

of land

5,400,000

7,000,000

% of
Expenditures
to be Financed

16% of amounts
disbursed by a NCB

30% of amounts
disbursed by ADBP

10% of amounts
disbursed by ADBP

153 of amounts

disbursed by ADBP

10% of amounts
disbursed by ADBP
- 17 -

Amount of the

 

Loan Allocated % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(7) Equipment and 80% of foreign
vehicles for: expenditures,
80% of lLocel
| expenditures
(a) ADBP 6,900,000 (ex-factory cost)
and 50% of local
(b) NCBs 2,500,000 expenditures for

other items pro-
cured locally

(8) Consultants' 65% for consul-
services, | tants' services
fellowships and and 80% for
study tours for: fellowships and

study tours
(a) ADBP | 4,100, 000
(b) NCBs 400,000

(9) Incremental
administrative
expenditures for:

(a) ADBP 2,600,000 56% until an
: aggregate amount

equivalent to
$800,000 has
been disbursed
from this
Category, 403%
thereafter and
until an agpre-
gate amount
equivalent to
$1,600,000 has
been disbursed
from this
Category, and
24% thereafter

 
- 18 -

Amount of the

Loan Allocated % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(b) NCBs 3,200,000 56% until an

aggregate amount
equivalent to
$1,100,000 has
been disbursed
from this
Category, 40%
thereafter and
until an aggre-
gate amount
equivalent to
$2,200,000 has
been disbursed
from this
Category, and
24% thereafter

(10) Unallocated

for:
(a) ADBP 1,300,000
(b) NCBs 300 ,000

TOTAL 148 ,_ 500.000
- 19 -
2. For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;

(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower:

(c) the term "incremental short-term credit" means the
aggregate principal amount of short-term credit disbursed by ADBP
in any quarter of the calendar year less the aggregate principal
amount of such credit disbursed by ADBP in the corresponding
quarter of the preceding calendar year; and

(d) the term "incremental administrative expenditures" means
(i) in respect of ADBP, expenditures for the salaries, allowances
and other emoluments of field staff recruited or reassigned, and
the operating costs of vehicles procured utilizing the proceeds of
the Loan, for the purposes of ADBP’s new credit schemes for women
established under the Project; and (ii) in respect of NCBs,
expenditures for the salaries, allowances and other emoluments of
field staff recruited or reassigned, and the operating costs of
vehicles procured utilizing the proceeds of the Loan, for the
purposes of NCBs’ general agricultural credit operations under the
Project. |

3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $1,000,000,
may be made in respect of Categories (7), (8) and (9) on account
of payments made for expenditures before that date but after
January 1, 1990.

 
- 20 -
SCHEDULE 2

Description of the Project

The objectives of the Project are to continue to assist the
Borrower in developing a viable agricultural credit system and to
consolidate the gains already made in that direction, and, to
those ends: (a) to provide financial support for ADBP’s credit
operations and for NCBs’ agricultural credit operations; (b) to
enhance the institutional capabilities of PCIs so as to enable
them to deliver credit to an increasing proportion of the rural
community, including small-holder farmers, the landless and women,
and to become more efficient in credit supervision and collection;
(c) to enable ADBP to expand its resource base by developing its
rural deposit generating capabilities; and (d) to establish a
policy environment conducive to efficient financial intermediation
and to the existence of increasingly viable financial institutions
in the agricultural credit sector.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A: Agricultural Credit Operations

l. Provision of medium- and long-term credit through PCIs to
finance: |

(a) medium-horsepower tractors, primary and secondary culti-
vation and seeding equipment, and general farm
machinery, including threshers and reapers;

(b) private minor irrigation, including construction or
improvement of tube-wells (including in turn, the provi-
Sion and installation of pumps and the provision of
power connections, where needed), improvements in spring
water utilization, and on-farm water management;

(c) dairy development, including provision of buffaloes and
cows, sheds, equipment, veterinary supplies, feed and
inputs for fodder-crop production;

(d) sheep and goat production for stock, including provision
of shelter, feed and inputs for fodder-crop production;

(e) poultry production, including provision of broiler and
layer units for chicks, sheds, equipment and feed;
(£)

(g)

(h)

- 21-

orchard development, including provision of seedlings,
plantings and other orchard establishment needs and
maintenance during the pre-fruit bearing stage;

vegetable farming, including supply and installation of
mini- and walk-in tunnels, with polythene and shade-
netting, and power sprayers, and provision of farm-to-
market transportation, and minor crop development: and

other on-farm development, including land levelling,
construction and lining of water courses, carrying out
of aquaculture, social forestry and tree-planting, api-
culture, silviculture and floriculture, and provision of
miscellaneous on-farm implements and equipment.

2. Provision of medium- and long-term credit through ADBP to

finance:

(a)

(b)

rural small-scale enterprises and other income-
generating activities, including provision of small-
scale machinery and tools for fruit- and nut-processing,
carpet-weaving, knitting, weaving, sewing, handicraft
production, and crop and wood processing; and

time-saving devices, which contribute directly or
indirectly to increased agricultural productivity,
including processing machines like wool corders,
spinning wheels, butter churners, nut crackers, spice
grinders and juicers, corn huskers, rice hullers, oil
nut-pressers, and fodder cutters; household technology
items like more efficient stoves and handpumps: and fuel
sources like butane, compact sawdust and prepared animal
feeds.

3. Provision of short-term credit through ADBP to finance:

(a)

(b)

(c)

crop production, including land-levelling, provision of
seasonal inputs such as seeds, fertilizer and pesti-
cides, tractor-hire and harvesting and processing;

livestock and poultry production and processing, includ-
ing provision of feed, medicines, chicks and inputs for
fodder-crop production; and

working capital for rural small-scale enterprises and
other income-generating activities, including provision
of agricultural, livestock and semi-processed products,

 
- 22 -

intermediate processing, packaging and marketing, hired
labor and/or energy costs, provision of accessories or
replacement parts, supply of product design materials
such as pattern books, manufacturers' catalogs and
carpet-weaving patterns, and equipment repair costs.

Part B: New Agricultural Credit and Rural Savings Mobilization
Schemes

Adoption by ADBP, on a pilot basis, and in form and sub-
stance satisfactory to the Bank, of schemes for: (i) providing
short-, medium- and long-term credit to small farmers, the
landless and women based on new forms of security; (ii) providing
credit through NGOs or to borrowers identified through NGOs; and
(iii) mobilizing rural savings through deposits received by MCOs
or nv iy instituted mobile deposit officers (MDQs).

Part C: Agricultural Cred -t Research

Carrying out of: (i) a rural credit survey, to focus parti-
cularly on farm credit practices, questions of access to institu-
tional credit and characteristics of the informal credit market:
(ii) a study of women's participation in decision-making in agri-
cultural, non-agricultural and domestic affairs; and (iii) studies
on specific policy issues, including causes of credit delinquency,
costs of and returns on agricultural credit, and impact of
directed credit programs.

Part D: Computerization of Land Records

 

Computerization, on a pilot basis, of land records in the
Kasur district of Punjab.

Part E: institutional Development Assistance

Strengthening of PCIs through:

(i) provision of equipment, vehicles and additional
staff; |

(ii) provision of technical assistance, to assist ADBP
in: (a) devising new and improving existing credit
programs, inter alia, for farm mechanization,
private minor irrigation, fruit, vegetable and
minor crop farming, and aquaculture; (b) devising
new credit programs for schemes for lending to
small farmers, the landless and women and for
(144)

(iv)

(v)

- 23.

lending through NGOs; (c) reviewing credit
appraisal procedures; (d) devising crop insurance
programs; (e) preparing and implementing a rural
savings mobilization action plan; (f) designing
computer application systems; (g) developing
beneficiary training programs for new credit
initiatives in the crops, livestock and small-scale
enterprises development areas; (h) developing
induction, in-service and environmental training
programs for MCOs and female VAs: (i) developing a
streamlined and more efficient accounting system,
including a modified general ledger system; (j)
preparing an organization and management Study; and
(k) strengthening the monitoring and evaluation
arrangements ;

provision of technical assistance, to assist NCBs
in: (a) developing and implementing a management
information system, including a monitoring and
evaluation capability; (b) developing cost-
accounting capability; and (c) developing an
environmental training program for ACOs:

carrying out of: (a) induction training of all new
female MCOs at ADBP's staff colleges and for female
VAs at ADBP's regional offices; (b) in-service
training of ADBP's regional managers, branch
managers and male MCOs in the special requirements
of credit programs for women; (c) additional
training of ADBP's regional managers, branch
managers, MCOs (both male and female), and female
VAs in the special requirements and operation of
credit programs for lending to small-holder
farmers, the landless and women and for lending
through NGOs; and (d) training of MCOs/ACOs in
environmental matters; and .

provision of fellowships and study tours for short-
term training, both local and overseas, of PCI
staff, including staff college instructors and

 
- 94 -
trainers, officers from headquarters,

regional/zonal and branch managers, and MCOs/ACOs,
both male and female. |

¥ * *

The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.
Date Payment Due

- 25 -
SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

Payment of Principal

(Expressed in dollars)*

 

November 1, 1995 2,705,000
May 1, 1996 2,810,000
November 1, 1996 2,915,000
May 1, 1997 3,030,000
November 1, 1997 3,150,000
May 1, 1998 3,270,000
November 1, 1998 3,395,000
May 1, 1999 3,530,000
November 1, 1999 3,665,000
May 1, 2000 3,805,000
November 1, 2000 3,955,000
May 1, 2001 4,105,000
November 1, 2001 4,265,000
May 1, 2002 4,430,000
November 1, 2002 4,605,000
May 1, 2003 4,780,000
November 1, 2003 4,965,000
May 1, 2004 5,160,000
November 1, 2004 5,360,000
May 1, 2005 >,565,000
November 1, 2005 5, 785,000
May 1, 2006 6,005,000
November 1, 2006 6,240,000
May 1, 2007 6,480,000
November 1, 2007 6,735,000
May 1, 2008 6,995,000
November 1, 2008 7,265,000
May 1, 2009 7,245,000
November 1, 2009 7,840,000
May 1, 2010 8,145,900
* The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents

determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

 
- 2%-

Premiums on Prepayment

Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:

Time of Prepayment Premium

The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the Loan on the day of
prepayment, multiplied by:

Not more than three years 0.15
before maturity

More than three years but | 0.30
not more than six years
before maturity

More than six years but | Q.55
not more than eleven years
before maturity

More than eleven years but not | 0.80
more than sixteen years
before maturity

More than sixteen years but not 0.90
more than eighteen years
before maturity

More than eighteen years before 1.00
| maturity
INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

CERTIFICATE

I hereby certify that the foregoing ts a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank

for Reconstruction and Development.

< KI_CG"

FOR SECRETARY

 
