 

 

LOAN NUMBER 2686 PAN

Loan Agreement

(Roads Rehabilitation Preject)
between
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated arcceaeg 13, 1994

 

 

 
LOAN NUMBER 2686 PAN

LOAN AGREEHENT

| AGREEMENT, dated aoe 73 | , 1994, between
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA he Borr r) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project; |

(B) the Bank has received a letter dated November 24, 1993,
from the Borrower containing a policy statement for the period 1994
through 1999, designed to reform the Borrower’s transport sector,
including as an annex to such policy statement, an action plan to
carry out specific reforms in the road subsector (the Roads
Rehabilitation Action Plan), and declaring the Borrower’s commitment
to the implementation of the policy statement and the Roads
Rehabilitation Action Plan; |

(C) the Borrower has contracted with the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) a loan (the IDB Loan) in an amount equivalent
to $180,000,000 to assist in financing the Project on terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (the IDB Loan Agreement)
entered into between the Borrower and the IDB on September 27, 1993;
and |

| WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follcws:
ARTICLE I.
General Conditions; Definitions

| Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January l, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of thie Agreement:

(a) The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

(b) In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (1) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

 
~-2-—

"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
the Bank’s Articles of Agreement." |

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

(a) "Annual Program" means the program referred to in
Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement; |

(b) “Balboa” means the currency of the Borrower;

(c) "CST Unit" means the transport sectc? coordination unit
referred to in Section 3.09 (a) of this Agreement} |

(d) "Eligible Inter-urban Subproject" means a specific
Inter-urban Subproject (as hereinafter defined) to be carried out
under Part B of the Project and financed with the proceeds of the
Loan and included in the Annual Program;

(e) "Eligible Urban Subproject" means a specific Urban
Subproject (as hereinafter defined) to be carried out under Part A
of the Project and financed with the proceeds of the Loan, and
included in the Annual Program; | | |

(f£) "Implementation Letter" means the letter referred to in
Section 3.11 (a)(i) of this Agreement, and including as annexes
thereto, the Urban Transport Program (as hereinafter defined), the
Inter-urban Transport Program (as hereinafter defined), performance
indicators, and the procedures and criteria to select each Eligible
Urban Subproject and Eligible Inter-urban Subproject, providing,
dnter alia, that each such Subproject shall: | |

(i) be included in the Urban Transport Program or
Inter-urban Transport Program, as the case may
be; | |

(11) yield, at all times, an economic rate of return
of at least twelve percent (122);

(iii) be designed in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;

 
- 3 ~-

(iv) be environmentally assessed by MOP, in accordance
with environmental guidelines, satisfactory to
the Bank; and ,

(v) be technically and economically assessed by MOP,
in a manner acceptable to the Bank;

(g) "Interministerial Agreement" means the agreement entered
into between MOP (as hereinafter defined) and MGJ (as hereinafter
defined), on August 13, 1993, for the purposes of carrying out Part
A of the Project; |

(h) "Inter-urban Subproject" means a specific project to
maintain, rehabilitate or improve the inter-urban roads included in
the Inter-urban Transport Program (as hereinafter defined); |

(i) "Inter-urban Transport Program" means the Borrower’s
1994-1997 program to maintain, rehabilitate and improve the
Borrower’s inter-urban roads, included as an annex to the
Implementation Letter, as such program may be amended from time to
time in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; |

(3) "MGJ" means the Ministry of Government and Justice
(Ministerio de Gobierno y Justicia) of the Borrower;

(k)  "MIPPE" means the Ministry of Planning and Economic
Policy (Ministerio de Planificacién y Politica Econémica) of the
Borrower $3

(1) "MOP" means the Ministry of Public Works (Ministerio de
Obras Pablicas) of the Borrower; >

(m) "Project Account" means the account referred to in
Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement; |

(n) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; | |

(0) "UA" means the environmental unit referred to in Section
3.06 (a) of this Agreement (Unidad Ambiental) ;

—(p) "UECP" means the special coordination unit referred to
in Section 3.06 (a) of this Agreement; |

 
-4-

(q) "Urban Subproject" means a specific project to maintain,
rehabilitate or improve the urban roads included in the Urban
Transport Program (as hereinafter defined) ; and |

(r) "Urban Transport Program" means the Borrower’s 1994-1997
program to maintain, rehabilitate and improve the Borrower’s urban
roads, included as an annex to the Implementation Letter, as such
program may be amended from time to time in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank. | |

ARTICLE ITI
The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of sixty million Dollars ($60,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in Banco
Nacional de Panama or other commercial bank acceptable to the Bank,
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement. | |

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2000 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date. | . |

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per

 
~5-

annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time. |

Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 12). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

(c) For the purposes of this Section:

(i) “Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
on the date immediately preceding each date
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
beginning with the Interest Period in which this
Agreement is signed.

(ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as

“reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
interest rates determined otherwise than as
provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

(iii) "Somester" means the first six months or the
| second six months of a calendar year.

(d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
~-6-

from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to.
the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 12). On each of the dates specified in Section
2.06 cf this Agreement, the Borrower shail pay interest
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
applicable during such Interest Period." |

"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each
Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
Quarter." |

"(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or Octover 1 in
a calendar year." | |

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall: | ,

(i) ‘through MOP, carry out Parts A, B, C.1 and C.2 of
the Project; and |

(ii) through MGJ, carry out Part C.3 of the Project,

all with due diligence and efficiency, in accordance with the
Implementation Letter and the Interministerial Agreement (with —
respect to Part A of the Project), and in conformity with
appropriate engineering, administrative, technical, safety,
maintenance, environmental and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
-7-

(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, suspend, terminate, waive or fail to
enforce the Interministerial Agreement.

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall select the Eligible Urban
Subprojects and the Eligible Inter-urban Subprojects in accordance
with the procedures and criteria set forth in the Implementation
Letter. : |

(b} If as a result of the environmental screening to be
carried out pursuant to the provisions of the Implementation Letter,
an Urban Subproject or an Inter-urban Subproject, as the case may
‘be, is determined to have a negative impact on the environment, the
Borrower shall:

(i) prior to the initiation of the bidding process
for the works to be carried out under such
Subproject or prior to the initiation of such
works (if no bidding process is envisaged in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement), furnish to the Bank a plan,
satisfactory to the Bank, to mitigate such
negative impact, including, if necessary, a
resettlement plan; and |

(ii) upon the Bank’s approval, carry out such plan in
oe accordance with its terms.

(c) If as a result of the technical and economical
assessments to be carried out pursuant to the provisions of the
Implementation Letter, there is a need to expropriate land for
carrying out an Urban Subproject or an Inter-urban Subproject, as
the case may be, the Borrower shall: |

(i) prior to the initiation of the bidding process
: for the works to be carried out under such
Subproject or prior to the initiation of such
works (if no bidding process is envisaged in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement), furnish to the Bank a plan,
- 8 -

satisfactory to the Bank, to compensate affected
owners or occupants; and |

(ii) upon the Bank’s approval, carry out such plan in
accordance with its terms.

Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, by no later than June 30 of
each year, starting on 1994, furnish to the Bank: |

(a) the program, satisfactory to the Bank, of Eligible Urban
Subprojects and Eligible Inter-urban Subprojects to be financed by
the Bank during the upcoming calendar year, such program to be based
on the Urban Transport Program and Inter-urban Transport Program;
and

(b) the budget, satisfactory to the Bank, for the execution
of the Annual Program including allocations for maintenance
expenditures. |

Section 3.05. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall open, and
thereafter operate and maintain until completion of the Project, an
account in Balboas in Bango Nacional de Panama or other commercial
bank acceptable to the Bank, under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, for purposes of depositing and managing the counterpart
funds required to cerry out the Project. | | | |

(b) The Borrower shall:

(i) provide in its annual budget, and deposit in the
account referred to in paragraph (a) above,
promptly as needed, in Balboas equivalent, as
counterpart funds for the execution of the
Project and for the maintenance of the roads
within the Urban Transport Program and Inter-
urban Transport Program, the amounts set forth in
Schedule 6 to this Agreement and the amounts
required to reimburse local taxes applicable to
foreign consultants hired under the Project; ang

(ii) furnish to the Bank, by no later than thirty days
after the annual budget for the year in question
has been approved, a certified copy of such

 
~9-

‘approved budget reflecting the amounts referred
to in subparagraph (i) above.

Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall operate and maintain
until completion of the Project, a Project coordination unit and an
environmental unit, beth within MOP, with functions end
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank.

(b) The Borrower shall ensure that UECP and UA are at all
times headed by a project coordinator and an environmental expert,
respectively, assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers, all
with experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank.

Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, by mo later than
December 31, 1994, furnish to the Bank, for its review and approval,
draft environmental guidelines. After Bank approval, the Borrower
shall apply such environmental guidelines in: |

(a) carrying out the environmental assessment of the Urban
Subprojects and Inter-urban Subprojects (ineluding the Eligible
Urban Subprojects and Eligible Inter-urban Subprojects); and

(b) monitering the execution of all such Subprojects.

Section 3.08. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 3.03 of this Agreement, and prior to the initiation of the
bidding process for the works to be carried out under the Inter-
urban Subproject for the Quebrada Aguacate-Cafitas-Bayano Area or |
prior to the initiation of such works (if no bidding process is
envisaged in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement), the Borrower shall: a |

(a) furnish to the Bank a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to
protect the indigenous population of such area including, inter
alia, a timetable for its implementation that specifies the actions
to be undertaken prior to the initiation of any work, all in
accordance with the terms of reference set forth in the letter from
the Borrower to the Bank cf even date herewith; and |

(b) upon the Bank’s approval, carry out such plan in
accordance with its terms. | |

Section 3.09. (a) By no later than December 31, 1994, the
Borrower shall operate and maintain until completion of the Project,

 
- 10 -

a transport sector coordination unit with functions and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter alia,
the coordination of the Borrower’s investments and policies in the
transport sector.

(b) The Borrower shall ensure that the CST Unit is at all
times headed by a transport sector coordinator, assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers, all with experience and
qualifications satisfactory to the Bank. :

Section 3.10. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section
9.07 cf the General Conditions, the Borrower, through UECP, shall by
no latar than June 30 and December 31 of each year of Project
implementation, starting in June 1994, prepare and furnish to the
Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank may
reasonably request, on th.: progress achieved by the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Project.

Section 3.11. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall review
jointly with the Bank, by no later than September 30 of each year,
starting in 1994, excepting 1996, the progress made by the Borrower
in carrying out the Project and in achieving its objectives during
the previous year. Such review shall focus, inter alia, on: _

(i) the matters referred to in the letter of even

| date herewith from the Borrower to the Bank (the
Implementation Letter) with regard to annual
reviews; |

(ii) the progress reports referred to in Section 3.10
of this Agreement for the respective year period;

and

(iii) the relevant Annual Programs.

(b) If as a result of any of the reviews referred to in
paragraph (a) above, the Bank determines that the progress achieved
by the Borrower in carrying out the Project is not satisfactory, the
Bank may: (i) require that the Borrower prepare and furnish to the
Bank an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to make adjustments
in Project implementation; or (ii) not approve for Bank financing
the Annual Program for the subsequent calendar year. |

 
-~ ll -

(c) If the Bank decides to exercise the option referred to
in paragraph (b) (i) above, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
such action plan by no later than thirty days after the conclusion
of the review in question and shall thereafter carry out such action
plan in accordance with its terms. | | |

(d+) The Borrower shall review jointly with the Bank the
overall execution of the Project and the achievement of its
objectives, by no later than September 30, 1996. Such review shall
focus, inter alia, on:

(i) the matters referred to in the Implementation
Letter with regard to the mid-term review; and

(ii) the progress reports referred to in Section 3.10
of this Agreement, for all the preceding years.

ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part

thereof.

(b) The Borrower shall:

(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
the Special Account and the Project Account for —
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank;

(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year, the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

 
- 12 -

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning said records end accounts and the
audit thereof as the bank shall from time to time
reasonably request. —

(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall: | a

(i) maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
this Section, records and separate accounts
reflecting such expenditures;

(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Bank
| has received the audit report for the fiscal year
in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
Account or payment out of the Special Account was

made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing

such expenditures; _ |

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
| records; and

(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

| ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank

Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely:

(a) subject to subparagraph (b) of this paragraph:

(i) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the.
proceeds of the IDB Loan shall have been

 
-13-

suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
part, pursuant to the terms of the IDB Loan
Agreement; or

(ii) the IDB Loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof. .

(b) subparagraph (a) shall not apply if the Borrower
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (i)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or pre-
maturing is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to
perform any of its obligations under the IDB Loan
Agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.

Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b)
of such Section. | |

ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination

Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

(a) that the UECP shall have been established and staffed in
a manner satisfactory to the Bank; |

(b) that the Project Account shall have been opened and an
amount equivalent to $2,000,000 shall have been deposited therein;

and

(c) that the CST Unit shall have been created and its
personnel and functions determined, in a manner satisfactory to the

 
~ 14 -—

- Section 6.02. The date 45, SIGS. is hereby
specified for the purposes of “Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions. |

ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

- Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning and Economic Policy of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministerio de Planificacién y Politica Economica
Via Espana y Calle 52 Este

Apartado Postal 2694

Panama 3, Repablica de Panama

For the Bank:

International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address: | Telex:
INTBAFRAD | 248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C. | 82987 (FTCC) |
: , 64145 (WUL) or
197688 (TRT)

 
-~ 15 -

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
 ———
By Of, Leg
| thorized Repr@sentative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Af
By ,
Latin America and the Caribbean

Lb Led by

 

 

 
-~ 16 -

SCHEDULE Il
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
l. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
Financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of

expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

Amount of the

 

Loan Allocated Z of
: (Expressed in | Expenditures
Category Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) Works 47,400,000 72%
(2) Maintenance a 500,000 802
pilot program
under Parts A
and B of the
Project
(3) Goods under Parts A 1,200,000 702
and B of the Project |
(4) Technical Assistance 5,500,000 100%
and Training under
Part C of the Project
(5) Unallocated 5,400,000
TOTAL : 60,000,000
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no

withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to
exceed $4,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) through
(4) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after June 30,
1993;

 
-17 -
(b) payments made for expenditures under Part A of the
Project, except for an Eligible Urban Subproject; and |
(c) payments made for expenditures under Part B of the

Project, except for an Eligible Inter-urban Subproject.

3. The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under contracts for works, goods and consultants’ services below
$500,000, $100,000 and $100,000 equivalent, respectively, under such
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. |

 
- 18 -

SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project

The objectives of the Project are to: (a) increase competition
in the road transport industry and to provide the foundation for
future regulatory reforms; (b) improve the management of the
transport sector through the coordination of investments and the
formulation of policies; (c) continue strengthening the admini-
stration and maintenance of roads, through: (i) support to MOP in
pavement management; and (ii) private sector’s participation in road
maintenance; (d) assist MOP in removing the existing road main-
tenance backlog and preventing its future occurrence through the
implementation of a well-coordinated rehabilitation and maintenance
program; and (e) reduce the traffic congestion and provide more
efficient, safe and reliable passenger transport services in the
city of Panama and other major cities within the Borrower’s
territory. | |

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A: Urban Development
Carrying out of Urban Subprojects.
Part B: Inter-urban Roads

Carrying out of Inter-Urban Subprojects and a maintenance
pilot program for inter-urban roads. | }

Part C: Policy Reform and Institutional Strengthening
l. Institutional strengthening of MOP, MIPPE and MGJ, by:

(a) improving the management and efficiency of the
- Borrower’s agencies within the transport sector; and

(b) coordinating all the investments in the transport
| sector.

 
-~ 19 -

2. Institutional strengthening of MOP by:

(a) addressing and resolving environmental issues within the
transport sector, including the training of the staff
required therefor;

(b) increasing the participation of the private sector in
the Borrower’s transport sector; and

(c) preparing future transport sector projects.

3. Implementation and evaluation of the Borrower’s Law 14 of

May 26, 1993, on urban passenger transport.

* k *

The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2000.

 
20 -

SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule

Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due ‘(expressed in dollars)*

On each March 15 and September 15

beginning September 15, 1999 |
through September 15, 2010 2,500,000

And on March 15, 2011 | 2,500,000

i A

* The figures in this column represent dollar equivaients
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03. |

 
~ 2] -

Premiums on Prepayment

Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below: | |

Time of Prepayment | Premium

The interest rate (expressed
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on the
day of prepayment multiplied
by: :

Not more than three years | 0.18
before maturity |

More than three years but | 0.35
not more than six years |
before maturity

More than six years but | | 0.65
not more than 11 years
before maturity

More than 11 years but not | | 0.88
more than 15 years |
before maturity

More than 15 years before | 1.00
maturity |

 
= 22 -

SCHEDULE 4

Procurement and Consultants’ Services

pc tra EO A CAI TT Sn

Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A: _ International Competitive Bidding

l. Except as provided in Part © hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
‘"@uidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).

(a) For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder’s bid price will be increased for each ©
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and
the other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such an
increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.

(b) Inthe procurement of goods and works in accordance with
Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard
‘bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications
thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the
purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard
forms agreed with the Bank. |

2. Bidders for works and goods estimated to cost more than the
equivalent to $1,000,000 and $200,000, respectively, shall be
prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.

3. To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall
be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
more than $100,000 and $500,000 or more, respectively. —

Part B: Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

In the procurement of goods in. accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1l hereof, goods manufactured in Panama may be
grented a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,

 
- 23 -

the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto. |

Part C: Other Procurement Procedures

 

1. Works estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $11,000,000, may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.

2. Vehicles up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $200,000, may
be procured under contracts awarded to manufacturers with
established services in Panama, through limited international
bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids
invited from a list of at least three qualified suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines and in accordance with the procedures set forth
in Sections I and II of the. Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8,
2. 3, 2.55 and 2. 36 thereof).

3. Equipment estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$25,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $300,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. ,

4, Miscellaneous technical equipment to be utilized by the
consultants hired under the Project, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive procedures acceptable to the
Bank. . :

Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

l. Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

(a) With respect to: (i) each contract for goods and works
awarded under Part A.1 of this Section; (ii) each contract for goods
estimated to cost $100,000 or more; and (iii) the first contract
awarded under Parts C.1 and C.2 of this Section, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to

 
-~ 24 -

the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the
Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract. |

(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure. |

2. The figure of 152 is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Part E: Standard Bidding Documents

All procurement of works pursuant to the provisions of Part
C.1 hereof shall be carried out using bidding documents satisfactory
to the Bank. | | —

Section II. Employment of Consultants

l. In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultants Guidelines). For
complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants’ services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as
shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall
use other standard forms agreed with the Bank. | :

 
~ 25 -

2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultants Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts or to the
employment of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the
Bank or to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above.

Section III. Special Provisions

A. In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set
forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following principles
of procurement shall expressly govern all procurement of goods and
works referred to in Parts A.l and C.2 of Section I of this
Schedule: |

1. Foreign bidders shall not be required to:

(a) have a local representative for purposes of submitting
_ bids; |

(b) be registered with local authorities as a prerequisite
for bidding; and | |

(c) be associated with local contactors or suppliers.
2. Bids may be:

(a) submitted at any reasonable time before bid opening, —
either by mail, courier or person; and |

(b) ‘accompanied by a bid security in a form and amount
acceptable to the Bank.

3. No provisional award shall be made at the time of bid opening.

4. No minimum number of bids shall be required as a condition to
award a contract. | |

 
- 26 -

5. Contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been
evaluated as the lowest, in accordance with criteria clearly set
forth in the bidding documents.

6. Contracts for civil works shall provide for mobilization
advances, whenever appropriate. |

7. Performance securities may be provided within a reasonable
time after contract award, in form and amount specified in the
bidding documents. |

8. Price adjustment provisions, acceptable to the Bank, shall be
included in work contracts which extend beyond one year.

B. In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set
forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following principle of
procurement shall expressly govern all procurement of goods and
works referred to in Part C.1 of Section I of this Schedule, namely,
that contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been
evaluated as the lowest, in accordance with criteria clearly set
forth in the bidding documents. |

C. In addition to and without limitation to any other provisions
set forth in this Schedule or the Consultants Guidelines, the
following principles of procurement shall expressly govern all
procurement of consultants’ services referred to in Section II of
this Schedule: |

l. Foreign consultants shall not be required to:

(a) be locally registered as a condition of participation in
the selection process;

(b) give any participation in or share of any consulting
contracts to any local firm or person for the purposes of
participating in the selection process or receiving an award, except
in connection with a joint venture arrangement where: (i) a
sufficient number of capable domestic firms or individual
consultants exist to allow a foreign consultant reasonable freedom
of choice; (ii) the contribution of either party to the joint
venture arrangement will not be constrained by any prescribed manner
or extent of participation; and (iii) the foreign consultant is not
required to associate itself with any specific named domestic firms
or individual consultants; |

 
-~ 27 -

(c) furnish any certificate issued by a local authority
about their legal capacity or tax status for the purposes of
submitting a proposal; and

(d) personally submit their proposals.

2. Consultants shall be selected from a short list of firms
invited to submit proposals on the basis of terms of reference,
employment conditions and evaluation criteria clearly set forth in
the respective letter of invitation.

 
- 28 -

SCHEDULE 5
Special Accouat
1. For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a) the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; ©

(b) the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

(c) the term “Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule. |

2. Payments out of the Special Account shall be madz exclusively
for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3. After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals ef the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows: |

(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested. |

— (b) (i) For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
deposits into the Special Account at such
intervals as the Bank shall specify.

(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the

 
- 29 -

documents and other evidence required pursuant
to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
or payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request,
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been
shown by said documents and other evidence to
have been paid out of the Special Account for
Eligible Expenditures. |

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective Eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures. |

5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits |
into the Special Account:

(a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or | | a |

(b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the Eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date |

 
- 30 -

of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible
Expenditures. .

6. (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

(b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount. |

| (c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account. |

(d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

 
Year

~1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999

-~ 31 -

SCHEDULE 6

 

In Thousands of Balboas

Funds for
Maintenance of the

Counterpart Funds Roads in the Urban
for the Execution Transport Program
of the Annual and the Inter-Urban
_.__ Programs Transport Program
9,300 21,500
19,000 21,200
18,500 20,900
18,100 20,900
18,100 20,900

17,600 20,900

 
INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

CERTIFICATE

I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
— the original in the archives of the International Bank

— for Reconstruction and Development.

SY. CH.

FOR SECRETARY

 
