 
   

OFpiary
boii CAL

 

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 3819-EC

Loan Agreement
(Structural Adjustment Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated b-Crereee JO » 199 5 ~

 

 

 
LOAN NUMBER 3819-EC
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT, dated } tazee, Lo | | » 1995,
hetween REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK |
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS: (A) the Bank has received a letter dated November.
17, 1994, from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of
the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the Program), declaring
the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Bank in the financing of urgently
needed imports required during such execution;

(B) it is contemplated that the Borrower may require
assistance from the Bank in the implementation of the Debt Reduction
Plan (as such term is hereinafter defined) ;

(C) the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project; and

(D) on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has
decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the
Borrower by making the Loan in three tranches as hereinafter
provided;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions |

Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions)

constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

(a) Section 2.01, paragraph ll, shall be modified to read:

"*Project’ means the imports and other activities that
may be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to
_the provisions of Schedules 1 and 2 to the Loan Agreement.";

 
-2?-

(b) Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:

"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan.";

(c) The last sentence of Section 3-02 is deleted; and

(d) In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
subparagraph (1) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:

"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would
be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III,
Section 3 of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement." |

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble |
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and

the following additional terms have the following meanings:

(a) "Debt Reduction Plan" means the Borrower's 1994
Financing Plan dated June 14, 1994 and distributed to the
international banking community; |

(b) "SITC" means the Standard International Trade
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 343 (1986)3

—(e) "sucres" means the currency of the Borrower; and

(d) "Third Tranche" means the proceeds of the Loan referred
to in Category (1) (b) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement.

 
3.

ARTICLE II
The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on che
_ terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of two hundred million Dollars ($200,000 »000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement (as well as pursuant to Section 3.05 of this Agreement).

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 oz such |
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment |
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 12%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to |
time.

Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 12). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period. |

— (b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified

Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

(c) For the purposes of this Section:

(i) "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
on the date immediately preceding each date
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
beginning with the Interest Period in which this
Agreement is signed.

 
- 4 -

(ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed —
as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
interest rates determined otherwise than as
provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

(iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.

(d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
- Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each
Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

"(c) (iii) ’Quarter’ means a three-month period
commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
calendar year." |

| Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year. |

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. |

 
~5 -

ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants

Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out Part A and, if so
agreed pursuant to Section 3.05 of this Agreement, Part B of the
Project, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate commercial, administrative and financial practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project. |

| Section 3.02 (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in
Parts II and III of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

| (b) Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request. |

(c) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on
any proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan
which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives
of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any
action specified in Schedule 5 te this Agreement. |

Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.

Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

(b) The Borrower shall:

(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
| paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by

 
(ii)

(iii)

independent private auditors acceptable to the
Bank; |

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year, a certified copy of the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and

furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request. |

(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

(i)

(ii)

(444)

maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;

retain, until at least one year after the Bank
has received the audit report for the fiscal year
in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents, or
customs certificates, as appropriate) evidencing
such expenditures; | |

enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such

records; and

(av)

ensure that such records and accounts are
included in the annual audits referred to in

paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report

of such audit contains a separate opinion by said

auditors as to whether the statements of

expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

 
Section 3.05. Subject to agreement by the Borrower and the
Bank on the terms and conditions to be applied in such case, the
Borrower may use a portion of the proceeds of the Loan as provided
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the implementation of the Debt
Reduction Plan under Part B of the Project.

ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,

that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the >
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.

ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely, that
the actions referred to in Part I of Schedule 5 to this Agreement

have been carried out.

‘Section 5.02. The date ©% 40,/79$ is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 o the General Conditions.
_ ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the

purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

Section 6. 02. The following addresses are specified for che.
purposes: of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministerio de Finanzas y Crédito Piblico
- Avenida 10 de Agosto y Jorge Washington
Quito, Ecuador

 
-8 -

Cable address: } | Telex:
MINFINANZAS 22358 MINFIN-ED
For the Bank:

International Bank for
| Reconstruction and Development

1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America >

Cable address: | | Telex: |

INTBAFRAD : 248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C. | 82987 (FTCC)

64145 (WUL) or
197688 (TRT)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR |
_ Jo
By | |

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

J

_—
G Llewg Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean

By |

 
~9.-

SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1. The table below sets forth the ©.tegories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so te be financed in each Category:

Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in

Category | Dollar Equivalent)

(1) Imported goods under
Part A of the Project

(a)

(b)

(2) Debt
Plan

to be disbursed 50,000,000)

on or after the
Effective Date,
subject to the
provisions of
paragraph 5 of
this Schedule

to be disbursed 100,000,000
on or after the .
Effective Date,
subject to the
provisions of _
paragraph 6 of
this Schedule

ee EO Oe Oe OD Oe Oe Oe Oe Oe Nee

Reduction 50,000,000

TOTAL — a - 200,000,000

Z of
Expenditures
to be Financed

100% of foreign
expenditures

As may be agreed
by the Bank and the
Borrower pursuant to
Section 3.05 of this
Agreement (and
subject to paragraph
9 of this Schedule)

 
- 10 -

2. For purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expenditures"
means expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of
the Borrower for goods supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower.

3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made out of Category (1) in respect of: ©

(a) expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to
the Borrower:

Group Subgroup | _ Description of Items
112 ee | Alcoholic beverages
121 | -- Tobacco, unmanufactured,

tobacco refuse

122 -- Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)

525 | | -—— Radioactive and > |
associated materials |

667 oo -- Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked

718 | . 718.7. | + Nuclear reactors, and
| | - parts thereof, fuel elements
(cartridges), nonirradiated
for nuclear reactors

728 | 728.43 Tobacco processing machinery ©

 
-~jll-

Group Subgroup | Description of Items

897 | 897.3 Jewelry of gold, silver or

platinum group metals
(except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or
silversmiths’ wares
(including set gems)

971 — -- _ Gold, nonmonetary (excluding
/ | gold ores and concentrates)

(b) payments made for goods imported prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $30,000,000 may be made on account of
payments made for such goods imported before that date but after
September 5, 1994; |

(c) expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $10,000 equivalent; | |

(d) expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency other
than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance;

(e) expenditures for eoods intended for a military or
paramilitary purpose or for luxury consumption; and

 (£) expenditures in excess of an ageregate amount equivalent
to $20, 000, 000 for petroleum products and foodstuffs.

4. Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the
procurement of goods estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 may be
required by the Bank upon the basis of statements of expenditure >
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify.

5. No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered
into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan under
Category (1) (a) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule,
unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as
described in Section 3.02 of this Agreement based on evidence
satisfactory to the Bank: (a) with the progress achieved by the
Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; (b) that the actions
described in Part II of Schedule 5 to this Agreement have been taken
-~ 12 -

in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; (c) that the
macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent with
the objectives of the Program; and (d) that none of the actions
described in Part I of Schedule 5 to this Agreement has, in the
opinion of the Bank, been reversed.

6. No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered
into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan under
Category (1) (b) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule,
unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as
described in Section 3.02 of this Agreement based on evidence
satisfactory to the Bank: (a) with the progress achieved by the
Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; (b) that the actions
described in Parts II and III of Schedule 5 to this Agreement have
been taken in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and (c)
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is
consistent with the objectives of the Program.

7. If, after an exchange of views described in paragraphs 5 or 6
above, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that the
progress achieved or actions taken are not satisfactory or have, in
the opinion of the Bank, been reversed or that the macroeconomic
policy framework of the Borrower is not consistent with the
objectives of the Program, and, within 90 days after such notice,
the Borrower shall not have achieved progress or taken actions.
satisfactory to the Bank, or the macroeconomic policy framework of |
the Borrower shall have not become consistent with the objectives of
the Program or the reversal shall not have been rectified, then the.
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount
of the Loan or any part thereof.

8. To the extent practicable, withdrawal applications shall be
consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal amounts of not _ tess than
$250,000 equivalent.

9. If an agreement between the Borrower and the Bank for the use
of the proceeds of the Loan designated for the implementation of the
Debt Reduction Plan shall not have been entered into (and all
amounts covered by Category (2) of the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule shall not have been disbursed pursuant to such agreement) |
by July 31, 1995, or such later date as approved by the Bank, the
Bank shall reallocate to Category (1) (b) of such table the
undisbursed amount allocated to Category (2) of such table.

 
- 13 -

10. With regard to the actions referred to in paragraph 6 (b) of
this Schedule which are subject to an action plan timetable as set
forth in Part III of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, such actions
shall be deemed to have been taken if: (a) they represent
substantial compliance, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank, with the targets set forth in the pertinent timetable for the
last calendar year semester (January 1 through June 30 or July 1
through December 31) to have concluded before the disbursement of
the Third Tranche; and (b) none of such actions have, in the opinion
of the Bank, been reversed between the end of such semester and the
disbursement of the Third Tranche. |
- 14 -

SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project

The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
sustaining sound macroeconomic policies, privatizing public
enterprises, carrying out fiscal, public sector pricing, budgetary
and administrative reforms and, if so agreed pursuant to Section
3.05 of this Agreement, implementing the Debt Reduction Plan.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such

modifications thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives: |

Part A: Imports

| Financing of imported goods required during the execution of
the Program. | | |

Part B: — Debt. Reduction Plan

Implementation of the Debt Reduction Plan.

* *

The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.

 
Date Payment Due

August i, 2000

- 15 -

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

Payment of Principal

(expressed in dollars)*

3,840,000

February 1, 2001 3,980,000

August 1, 2001 4,120,000

February 1, 2002 4,265,000

August 1, 2002 4,420,000

February 1, 2003 4,575,000

August 1, 2003 4,735,000

February 1, 2004 4,905,000

August 1, 2004 5,080,000
February 1, 2005 5,260,000

August 1, 2005 5,445,000

February 1, 2006 5,640,000

August 1, 2006 5,840,000

February 1, 2007 6,945,000

August 1, 2007 6,260,000

February 1, 2008 6,485,000

August 1, 2008 6,715,000

February 1, 2009 6,955,000

August 1, 2009 7,200,000

February 1, 2010 7,455,000

August 1, 2010 7,720,000

February 1, 2011 7,995,000

August 1, 2011 8,280,000

February 1, 2012 8,570,000

August 1, 2012 8,875,000

February 1, 2013 9,190,000

August 1, 2013 9,515,000

February 1, 2014 9,855,000
August 1, 2014 10,205,000

February 1, 2015 10,575,000

an The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents

See

determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal.
General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

 
~ 16 -

Premiums on Prepayment

Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
“premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

Time of Prepayment | | Premium

The interest rate (expressed
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on the
day of prepayment multiplied
by:

Not more than three years | 0.15
before maturity |

More than three years but | ~ 0.30
not more than six years |
before maturity

More than six years but | 0.55
not more than 11 years |
before maturity

More than 11 years but not a 0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity

More than 16 years but not 0.90
more than 18 years |
before maturity

More than 18 years before © | | 1.00
maturity

 
-17-

SCHEDULE 4
Procurement

l. Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $5,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), and in
accordance with the following additional procedures: |

(a) Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
| following is substituted therefor:

"2.8 Notification and Advertising

The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's
invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper
of general circulation in the Borrower's country and, in
addition, in at least one of the following forms: |

(i) a notice in the United Nations publication,
Development Forum, Business Edition; or

(ii) an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international
circulation; or

(iii) a notice to local representatives of countries
and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
that are potential suppliers of the goods

- required." . | |

(b) The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:

"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require

the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely

used in international trade and specified in the _ ‘bidding
documents."

 
- 18 -

(c) Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.

(d) When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to and in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines,
by the minimum amount of time required to complete the evaluation,
obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract.
The bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the
bidding documents or the request for extension shall provide for
appropriate adjustment of the bid price to reflect changes in the
cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. Such
an increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the
bid evaluation.

(e) In the procurement of goods in accordance with this
paragraph 1, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the
Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Bank. a

2. Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $5,000,000 shall be awarded:

(a) by purchasers required to follow the Borrower’s public
procurement procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of
_ such procedures, provided that such procedures shall have been found
acceptable by the Bank; and

(b) by other purchasers, in accordance with established
commercial practice, provided that such contracts shall be awarded
on the basis of evaluation comparison of quotations obtained from
suppliers from at least two countries, except that direct
contracting procedures acceptable to the Bank may be used where
considered appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.

3. Subject to the prior approval of the Bank, commonly traded
commodities may be procured through organized international
commodity markets or other channels of competitive procurement |
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank.

 
-~ 19

4. | With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the |
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two.
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids and recommendations for award, a description of the
advertising and tendering procedures followed and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. |

5. With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2 and
3 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal -
of funds from the Loan Account in respect thereof, such
documentation and information as the Bank may reasonably request to

support withdrawal applications in respect of such contract. ee

6. The provisions of the preceding paragraph 5 of this Schedule
shall not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from
the Loan Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure. |

 
- 20 -

SCHEDULE 5

Actions Referred to in Section 5.01 of this Agreement and
in Paragraphs 5 (b) and 6 (b) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement

Part I
Macroeconomic Policies

l. (a) Continued compliance with the Program (including
carrying out of the actions specified therein); and (b) signature by
the Borrower and its commercial bank creditors (holding at least 95%
of the Borrower's Eligible Debt as defined in the Debt Reduction
Plan) of an agreement to reduce the Borrower’s debt to such
creditors. |

Public Sector Pricing and Subsidies

2. Continued application of the pricing formula, which is set
forth in Presidential Decree No. 1433 (published in the Borrower's
Registro Oficial (hereinafter Official Gazette) on January 28, 1994
and issued pursuant to Article 72 of the Ley de Hidrocarburos
(Hydrocarbons Law), as such Law was amended by Law No. 44 published
in the Borrower's Official Gazette on November 29, 1993), to all
petroleum derivatives (sold for the internal Ecuadorian market)
covered by said Decree (or liberalization of the pricing of said
petroleum derivatives so that their prices to the final consumer at
least cover the opportunity cost, based on such derivatives’
international prices, to the sellers of such derivatives).

Revenue Measures and Tax Administration

3. Continued operation within the Borrower's Direccién General de
Rentas (General Directorate for Income; hereinafter DGR) of two .
Unidades de Grandes Contribuyentes (Large Taxpayers Units; one
located in Quito and the other in Guayaquil) to monitor and ensure
tax law compliance by large taxpayers (i.e., each of those taxpayers
with annual sales or gross income for 1993 exceeding 2 billion
sucres) with respect to the Impuesto a la Renta (hereinafter Income
Tax), Impuesto al Valor Agregado (value added tax; hereinafter VAT)
and Impuesto a los Consumos Especiales y para el Control de
Productos Alcohélicos (hereinafter Excise Tax). ee

4. Substantial compliance with the October 6, 1994 action plan
prepared and formaily endorsed by DGR, specifying the policies and

 
-- 21 -

actions (and their timetable) to be undertaken by the Borrower to,
inter alia: (a) monitor, and reduce Income Tax, VAT and Excise Tax
evasion; (b) improve collection of said taxes; (c) reduce the number
of estimated tax reductions or exemptions granted pursuant to
provisions such as Article 41 (6) of the Borrower’s Ley de Régimen
Tributario (published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on December
22, 1989, as amended to the date of this Agreement; hereinafter
Internal Tax Regime Law) and reduce the amount of tax covered by
such reductions or exemptions; and (d) reduce the number of types of
taxpayers (as well as the absolute number of taxpayers) to which the
Sistema de Estimacién Objetiva Global (Global Objective Estimation
System) set forth in provisions such as Article 34 of the Internal
Tax Regime Law applies. |

5. ‘Continued regular and systematic: (a) provision to DGR by the
Borrower's Direccién General de Aduanas (Directorate General for
Customs) of VAT information contained in import declarations filed
by importers with respect to importations subject to VAT; (b) use by
importers of DGR forms for paying VAT on such importations; and (c)
provision to DGR on magnetic tape (by financial institutions acting
as VAT collection agents) of the information contained in such
forms.

Budget Reform and Decentralization

6. Presentation to the Bank by the Borrower of a list
(satisfactory to the Bank and prepared by the Borrower's Ministry of
Finance and Public Credit) of all public sector programs and.
entities which are financed by public sector revenues earmarked
specifically for use in such programs or by such entities (which
list shall identify which of those earmarkings need an abolishment
law if they are to be eliminated and which of those earmarkings can
be eliminated without the need for such a law).

7. (a) Issuance by the Borrower's Junta Monetaria (Monetary
Board) of regulations which allow all entities of the Borrower's
Central Government (as such term is defined in Article 2 (a) of the
Ley de Presupuestos del Sector Piiblico (published in the Borrower's
Official Gazette on November 30, 1992, as amended to the date of
this Agreement; hereinafter Public Sector Budgets Law)) to open the
checking accounts in private sector Ecuadorian banks referred to in
paragraph 9 of Part III of this Schedule; and

(b) Issuance by the Borrower’ s Ministry of Finance and
Public Credit of technical norms, with the approval of the Central

 
- 22 -

Bank of Ecuador, with respect to the operation of the program
referred to in said paragraph 9 (which norms shall, inter alia,
specify that the Central Bank of Ecuador shall automatically
transfer to said checking accounts in private sector Ecuadorian
banks the relevant budgetary allocations as instructed by the
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit and, in gensral, specify the
operation of the terms of Article 28 of the Public Sector Budgets
Law). | | |

| Public Sector Restructuring and Employment Reduction

8. Substantial compliance with the October 14, 1994 action plan
(prepared and formally endorsed by the Borrower's Consejo Nacional
de Modernizacién del Estado (National Modernization of the State
Council; hereinafter CONAM)) specifying a timetable for public
sector employee net reductions to be made through the end of June
1996 (for purposes of this paragraph, the term "public sector" is
defined to include all the entities covered by Article 2 of the
Public Sector Budgets Law). | a

9. Substantial compliance with the October 14, 1994 action plan
(prepared and formally endorsed by CONAM) specifying norms,
procedures and a timetable for restructuring the public sector (as
defined in Part I, paragraph 8 of this Schedule) pursuant to Article
‘17 +#of the Ley de Modernizaci6n del Estado, Privatizaciones y

(Modernization of the State Law; published in the Borrower's
Official Gazette on December 31, 1993), as well as pursuant to any
other laws which may allow any of the entities excluded from the
application of said Article 17 to undergo such restructuring.

Public Enterprise Reform/Privatization

10. Continued operation of a technical working group, satisfactory
to the Bank, within CONAM to prepare for the restructuring and
eventual privatization of the Borrower's Instituto Ecuatoriano de
Electrificacié6én (State Power Company; hereinafter INECEL) and power
distribution entities over which the Borrower, directly or
indirectly, has managerial control. — !

il. Continued operation of a technical working group, satisfactory
to the Bank, within CONAM to prepare for the carrying out of the
actions specified in paragraph 16 of Part III of this Schedule.

 
- 23 -

Part II

Public Enterprise Reform/ Privatization

l. (a) Entrance into effect of a new law which amends or
supersedes the current Ley Especial de Telecomunicaciones (Special
Telecommunications Law; published in the Borrower's Official Gazette
on August 10, 1992) so as to allow for the privatization of all
telecommunication services (which currently are legally offerable by
the Borrower's Empresa Estatal de Telecomunicaciones EMETEL Ecuador
(State Telecommunications Enterprise; hereinafter EMETEL)) through
concession arrangements, sale of EMETEL assets and/or sale of
controlling shares in a corporatized EMETEL, as well as to allow for
the sound regulation of the telecommunications sector; and (b)
presentation to the Bank by the Borrower’s Director General Juridico
de la Presidencia de la Reptiblica (Legal Director General of the
Presidency of the Republic) of a legal opinion, satisfactory to the
Bank, indicating that the new law referred to in paragraph 1 (a) of
this Part is permissible under the Borrower's Constitution and is
not superseded, in whole or in part, by any other laws.

Part Iil

Macroeconomic Policies

 

le. Continued compliance with the Program (including carrying out
of the actions specified therein). |

| Public Sector Pricing and Subsidies

 

2. Continued application, to all petroleum derivatives covered by
Decree No. 1433 (referred to in Part I, paragraph 2 of this
Schedule), of the pricing formula cited in Part I, paragraph 2 of
this Schedule (or liberalization of the pricing of said petroleum
derivatives so that their prices to the final consumer at least
_ cover the opportunity cost, based on such derivatives’ international
prices, to the sellers of such derivatives). |

Revenue Measures and Tax Administration

 

3. Continued substantial compliance with the action plan referred
to in Part I, paragraph 4 of this Schedule.

4. (a) Continued operation of the Large Taxpayers Units
referred to in Part I, paragraph 3 of this Schedule; and (b)

 
- 24 -

creation of a specialized unit within DGR to carry out non-tax
collections on behaif of other public sector entities for which such
collection service is provided.

5. Continued regular and systematic provision to DGR of VAT
information, use of DGR forms and provision of information to DGR on
magnetic tape pursuant to Part I, paragraph 5 of this Schedule.

6. Closure of at least 60% of all businesses (as allowed by, and
according to the terms of, provisions such as Articles 70 and 84 of
the Internal Tax Regime Law and unless prevented by judicial or
administrative action pursuant to the terms of the Cédigo Tributario
(published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on December 23, 1975,
as amended to the date of this Agreement; hereinafter Tax Code) )
found, pursuant to audits undertaken within twelve months prior to
the disbursement of the Third Tranche, to be in default of their VAT
or Excise Tax declaration or payment obligations, each such closure
to have lasted until the relevant default is fully remedied and all
corresponding penalties have been paid, until an agreement has been
entered into for repayment of the overdue amounts in installments
pursuant to the terms of the Tax Code or until the closure has been
overturned by judicial or administrative action pursuant to the
terms of the Tax Code. .

7. Presentation by the Borrower's executive branch, to Ecuador’s
Congress for approval by such Congress, of proposed amendments to
the Tax Code and Internal Tax Regime Law whereby the reforms

specified in the October 6, 1994 action plan, which was prepared and
| formally endorsed by DER, ‘would be enacted in substance.

| Budget Reform and Decentralization

8. Presentation to Ecuador's Congress, by the Borrower’s Ministry
of Finance and Public Credit, of budget proposals for fiscal year
1996 (and fiscal year 1997 if Third Tranche disbursement occurs
after November 1996) which: (a) are consolidated (with respect to
all entities covered by Article 2 (a), (b) and (d) of the Public
Sector Budgets Law) as specified in Article 19 of the Public Sector
Budgets Law; (b) already incorporate a projected cash flow program —
("programaci6én de caja") prepared according to Article 52 of the
Reglamento a da L Ley de Presupuestos del Sector Publico (published in
the Borrower's Official Gazette on February 26, 1993; hereinafter
Regulation of the Public Sector Budgets Law) in anticipation of the
requirements of Article 27 of the Public Sector Budgets Law; (c)
take into account multi-annual budgetary requirements referred to in

 
- 25 -

Article 15 of the Public Sector Budgets Law; and (d) are based on
proper presentation by all entities covered by Article 2 (a), (b)
and (d) of the Public Sector Budgets Law of all the information
required for compliance with Title III, Chapter I of the Public
Sector Budgets Law (including the information listed in Articles 10,
22, 23 and 27 of the Regulation of the Public Sector Budgets Law).

9. Implementation of a program (consistent with the technical
norms referred to in paragraph 7 (b) of Part I of this Schedule) for
payment through the banking network whereby budget allocations are
made available to all entities of the Borrower’s Central Government
(as such term is defined in Article 2 (a) of the Public Sector
Budgets Law) through a checking account opened in each such entity's
name in a private sector Ecuadorian bank as allowed pursuant to
Article 28 of the Public Sector Budgets Law and Article 63 of the >
Regulation of the Public Sector Budgets Law.

10. Elimination of all public sector earmarkings selected by the
Borrower from the list referred to in paragraph 6 of Part I of this
Schedule (which selection shall have been satisfactory to the Bank
and shall have been made no later than September 1, 1995).

ll. (a) Completion by the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and
Public Credit and by the Central Bank of Ecuador of an inventory
detailing all loans and guarantees comprising the Borrower's
_ external and internal debt portfolio; and (b) incorporation of said
inventory in a debt management system data base used in common by
the Central Bank of Ecuador and the Borrower's Ministry of Finance
and Public Credit). : :

12. Application by the Borrower of sanctions (including those set
forth in Article 17 of the Public Sector Budgets Law) to each entity
referred to in Article 2 (a), (b) and (d) of the Public Sector
Budgets Law which has failed to properly present to the Borrower's
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit all the information required
for such entity’s compliance, for the preparation of public sector
budgets (beginning with the public sector budget for 1996), with
Title III, Chapter I of the Public Sector Budgets Law (including the
information listed in Articles 10, 22, 23 and 27 of the Regulation
of the Public Sector Budgets Law). |

Public Sector Restructuring and Emp Loyment Reduction

13. Substantial compliance with the action plan referred to in
Part I, paragraph 8 of this Schedule.
- 26 -

14. Substantial compliance with the action plan referred to in
Part I, paragraph 9 of this Schedule.

Public Enterprise Reform/Privatization

15. Divestiture by the Borrower of its ownership positions in at
least two of the enterprises listed in CONAM’s October 10, 1994
letter to the Bank regarding its divestiture program.

16. Bringing of EMETEL by the Borrower to the point of sale and/or
of concession by formally soliciting bids from the private sector
for such concession, for EMETEL’s assets and/or for shares (which
must allow managerial control of EMETEL even if such shares
represent a minority percentage) in a corporatized EMETEL in a
manner consistent with the new law referred to in Part II, paragraph
1 (a) of this Schedule. ) |

17. Commencement of privatization of a portion of INECEL (and
power distribution entities over which the Borrower, directly or
indirectly, has managerial control) in a manner consistent with the
Borrower's Constitution, by merging or creating separate power
generation corporations, a power transmission corporation and power
distribution corporations and formally soliciting bids from the
private sector for shares (which must allow managerial control even
if such shares represent a minority percentage) in some or all such
corporations.

 
INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPM ENT

CERTIFICATE

I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
~ the original in the archives of the International Bank

_ for Reconstruction and Development.

OW Lip

FORSECRETARY  __

 
 

LOAN NUMBER 3819-EC

_ Implementation Agreement

relating to the use of a portion
of the proceeds of Loan 3819-EC
(Structural Adjustment Loan)
for debt and debt service reduction

between
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT —

Dated -4- coo 2, 199.57

 

 
LOAN NUMBER 3819-EC

IMPLEMENTATION AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT, dated = / 2¢ex > , 19955 between
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS (A) By a Loan Agreement between the Borrower and the
Bank of even date herewith (such agreement hereinafter the "Loan
Agreement"), the Bank agreed to make a structural adjustment loan
(hereinafter called the Loan) to the Borrower in an amount in
various currencies equivalent to two hundred million Dollars
($200,000,000) on terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement;

— (B) the Loan Agreement provides, inter alia, that, subject
to agreement by the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower may use up
to fifty million Dollars ($50,000,000) equivalent out of the >
proceeds of the Loan (the Set-aside Funds) as provided in Schedule
1 to the Loan Agreement for the implementation of a Debt Reduction
Plan (as defined in the Loan Agreement) of the Borrower under Part
B of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement;

(C) the international banking community has responded
favorably to the Borrower’s request, dated June 14, 1994 and
denominated "1994 Financing Plan" (the 1994 Financing Plan), for
participation in a debt and debt service reduction program designed
to support the Borrower’s medium-term macroeconomic objectives and
- proposed policies and actions to secure higher investment and
export- -led growth (the Economic Program); and

(D) the Borrower has requested the Bank to release the Set-
aside Funds for financing a portion of the cost of the acquisition
of collateral to secure principal and interest payments on the
Collateralized Discount Bonds and Collateralized Par Bonds (as
hereinafter defined) and, for that purpose, to enter into this
Agreement. | | |

WHEREAS, upon the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the
Bank and the Borrower have agreed to enter into this Agreement
(hereinafter occasionally referred to as the “Implementation
Agreement") on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;

NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
_ ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereof set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions, in the Loan
Agreement and in the Preamble to this Implementation Agreement have |
the respective meanings therein set forth and the Following
additional terms have the following meanings:

(a) "Collateral" means collateral pledged by the Borrower
to secure principal and interest payments on the Collateralized
Discount Bonds and Collateralized Par Bonds (as hereinafter defined)
in accordance with agreements entered into pursuant to the 1994
Financing Plan; and "Specific Collateral" means the portion of the
Collateral to be financed out of the Set-aside Funds;

(b) "Collateral Financing" means the aggregate of the
amounts disbursed by the Bank (including amounts disbursed pursuant
to the Debt and Debt Service Reduction Loan Agreement, as
hereinafter defined), the Inter-American Development Bank and the
International Monetary Fund explicitly for the financing of the
acquisition of Collateral;

| (c) "Collateralized Discount Bonds" means the collateralized |
30-year discount bonds issued by the Borrower under the 1994
Financing Plan;

| (d) "Collateralized Par Bonds" means the collateralized 30-.
year par bonds issued by the Borrower under the 1994 Financing Plan;

(e) "Collateral Pledge Agreement" means the agreement (made
by the Borrower in favor of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, as
collateral agent (hereinafter the "Collateral Agent") with respect
to the Collateralized Discount Bonds and Collateralized Par Bonds,
pursuant .to the 1994 Financing Plan) in accordance with which the
Collateral for the Collateralized Discount Bonds and Collateralized
Pur Bonds is maintained;

 
(£) "Debt and Debt Service Reduction Loan Agreement" means
the loan agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the
Borrower for Loan No. 3820~-EC (the Debt and Debt Service Reduction
Loan), as such agreement may be amended from time to time;

| (g) "Eligible Debt" has the same meaning ascribed thereto
in the 1994 Financing Plan; and .

(hh) "Participating Lenders" means the commercial banks and
other financial institutions with Eligible Debt that have
participated in the 1994 Financing Plan. )

ARTICLE II .
| The Set-aside Funds

Section 2.01. The amount of the Set-aside Funds may be
withdrawn from the Loan Accounts in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 1 to this Implementation Agreement.

Section 2.02. The amount of the Set-aside Funds shall, at the
request of the Borrower, be reallocated to Category 1 (b) set forth
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement if such amount is
not withdrawn from the Loan Account by July 31, 1995, or such later
date as approved by the Bank.

Section 2.03. (a) Upon the occurrence of any of the following
events, the Bank, at its option, may, by notice to the Borrower,
require the Borrower to repay, in advance of maturity, such portion
of the principal amount of the Set-aside Funds then outstanding as
specified below together with all accrued interest and other charges
thereon:

(i) the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any amount of the Set-aside Funds has not been
used on or prior to the date referred to in
Section 2.02 of this Implementation Agreement for
the purpose of the Project and such amount has
not been reallocated pursuant to such
Section 2.02, in which case the amount of such
Set-aside Funds subject to prepayment shall be >
such amount as shall have been so determined; or

(ii) any portion of the Collateral shall have been
released to the Borrower and the acquisition cost

 
of the remaining amount of the said Collateral
shall be less than the amount of the Collateral
Financing in which case the amount of the Set-
aside Funds subject to prepayment shall be equal
to the difference between (1) the amount of the
Collateral Financing and (2) the acquisition cost
of the remaining amount of the Collateral, such
difference to be multiplied by a fraction the
denominator of which shall be the amount of the
Collateral Financing and the numerator of which

shall be the amount of the acquisition cost of |
the Specific Collateral, less: (i) any amounts
which have been previously prepaid pursuant to
this Section 2.03 (a) (ii); and (ii) any amounts
which would have been subject to such prepayment
but for the following sentence or similar
provisions in such other agreements. The
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if
the Borrower establishes, to the satisfaction of
the Bank, that the amount of such Collateral so
released has been or will be used: (A) to support
debt or debt service reduction activities of the
Borrower; or (B) to finance imports of goods
acceptable to the Bank under the Loan Agreement.

—(b) The Borrower shall inform the Bank of the occurrence of
any of the events listed in paragraph (a) of this Section within
five (5) working days of the occurrence thereof.

(c) The Bank hereby waives the payment of any premium —
payable under Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement on prepayment of any >
‘portion of the Set-aside Funds of the Loan pursuant to paragraph (a)
of this Section.

(d) Prepayment of all or any portion of the Set-aside Funds
of the Loan in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section shall
be made on a date and in the currency specified by the Bank and the
amount so prepaid shall be deleted from the Central Disbursement.
Account on such date. : 7

Section 2.04. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken
under the provisions of Section 2.01 of this . Implementation
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions, including

 
-5-

preparing withdrawal applications in respect of the Set-aside Funds
and collecting the documents and other evidence to be furnished to
the Bank in support of such applications. :

ARTICLE III
Other Covenants

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall, from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the 1994
Financing Plan. |

(b) Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for its review .ind comment a report on the 1994
Financing Plan in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.

‘Section 3.02. Without any limitations or restrictions upon the
provisions of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions and Section
2.03 (b) of this Implementation Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(i) at all times keep the Bank informed of all notices, certificates
and confirmations issued to or received by the Borrower in respect
of the Collateral; and (ii) provide to the Bank copies of the
monthly reports with respect to the Collateral delivered by the
Collateral Agent to the Borrower pursuant to the provisions of the
Collateral Pledge Agreement within 15 days of the receipt thereof.

ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the payments made in respect of the Project and financed out of the
proceeds ‘of the Set-aside Funds.

(b) The Borrower shall: |

(i) have the records and accounts referred to in.
‘paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent private auditors acceptable — to the
Bank;

 
(ii)

(iii)

-6-—

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year a certified copy of the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and

furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request. | | | |

(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
of the proceeds of the Set-aside Funds were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

(i)

(ii)

(iii) |

(iv)

maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;

retain, until at least one year after the Bank
has received the audit report for the fiscal year
in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) |
evidencing such expenditures; |

enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
records; and | |

ensure that such records and accounts are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

 
-7-

ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank —

Section 5.0l. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General |
Conditions, the following additional events are specified: ©

(a) that a situation has arisen which shall make it
improbable, in the opinion of the Bank, that the Economic Program
(as such term is defined in the Debt and Debt Service Reduction Loan
Agreement) or the 1994 Financing Plan, or any significant part
thereof, will be carried out; and

(b) that any event shall have occurred that, in the opinion
of the Bank, materially and adversely affects the maintenance of the
Collateral under the agreements entered into pursuant to the 1994
Financing Plan.

Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely,
that any event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination |

Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Implementation Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

(a) that there shall be furnished to the Bank an opinion or
opinions satisfactory to the Bank, of counsel acceptable to the
Bank, showing that this Implementation Agreement has been duly
_ authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of,
the Borrower and is legally binding upon it in accordance with its
terms; |

(b) that the Borrower has entered into agreements with
Participating Lenders for the exchange, under the 1994 Financing
Plan, of an amount equivalent to approximately 952 (ninety-five
percent) of Eligible Debt, of which approximately 58% (fifty-eight
percent) shall be exchanged for Collateralized Discount Bonds and
approximately 422 (forty-two percent) shall be exchanged for
Collateralized Par Bonds; and oo |

 
~-8-

(c) the Borrower has confirmed, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, the availability of | adequate resources to
implement the 1994 Financing Plan. .

IN WLTNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

THE REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR ~
of

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR |
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

a
(77-9. [re - C eeu Ce pee

$ 2g Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean |

By

 
SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Set-aside Funds

1. Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Set-aside Funds of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account for payments made no earlier than
June 14, 1994 or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made in respect
of the provision of Collateral for the purpose of securing principal
and interest payments on Collateralized Discount Bonds. and
Collateralized Par Bonds and to be financed out of such proceeds.

2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made unless: (a) the Bank shall have approved
the procedures for such withdrawals; (b) the Bank shall be
satisfied, based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank, with the
arrangements for the maintenance of the Collateral; and (c) except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the proceeds of the loan under
the Debt and Debt Service Reduction Loan Agreement are being
disbursed concurrently with the Set-aside Funds.

 
-10-

SCHEDULE 2
Modifications to the General Conditions

l. The following provisions of the General Conditions are
deleted: | oe

(a) The last sentence of Section 3.02.

(b) Section 5.02.

(c) Section 5.04.

(d) Section 5.08.

(e) The phrase ", except that the Borrower may not so cancel
any amount of the Loan in respect of which the Bank shall have
entered into a special commitment pursuant to Section 5. 02" in
Section 6.01.

(f£) Paragraph (c) of Section 6.03.

(2) Section 6.04.

| (h) The phrase "and not subject to any special commitment
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02" in Section 6.07.

(i) Section 9.04.
(j) Section 9.05.
(k) Section 9.06.
(1) Section 9.08.
(m) Section 9.09.

2. Section 2.01, paragraph ll, shall be modified to read:

"*Project’ means the provision of Collateral (as defined in
the Implementation Agreement) for the purpose of securing principal
and interest payments on Collateralized Discount Bonds and
Collateralized Par Bonds (as defined in the Implementation
Agreement) to be exchanged for Eligible Debt (as defined in the
Implementation Agreement) that may be financed out of the proceeds

 
- jl -

of the Set-aside Funds pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to
the Implementation Agreement."

3. Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:

"Section 4.01. Currencies in which Withdrawals are to be Made.
Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be made in the respective
currencies in which the payments to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Set-aside Funds have been made or are to be made." |

4. The last sentence cf Section 4.02 (a) shall be modified to
read: | | | |

"Each such amount shall be deleted from the Central
Disbursement Account on the date it becomes due or such earlier date
as may be accepted by the Bank for prepayment or as may be specified
for prepayment pursuant to the Implementation Agreement."

5. The second sentence of Section 4.02 (c) shall be modified to
read: |

"Each such amount shall be deleted from such sub-account on
the date it becomes due or such earlier date as may be accepted for
prepayment or as may be specified for prepayment pursuant to the
Implementation Agreement."

6. Section 5.01 shall be modified to read:

| "Section 5.01. Withdrawal from the Loan Account. The Borrower
shall be entitled to withdraw from the Loan Account amounts paid or, >
if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid for the purposes of the
Project in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement, the
Implementation Agreement and of these General Conditions." :

| 7. Section 5.03 shall be modified *o read:

"Section 5.03. Applications for Withdrawal. When the Borrower
shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Loan Account, the
Borrower shall deliver to the Bank a written application in such
form, and containing such statements and agreements, as the Bank
shall reasonably request."

8. In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
subparagraph (1) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
-12-

"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
the Bank’s Articles of Agreement." :

9, Section 9.07 shall be modified to read:

"Section 9.07. Records and Reports. (a) The Borrower shall:
(i) maintain records and procedures adequate to record and monitor
the progress of the 1994 Financing Plan (including its cost and the
benefits to be derived from it), to identify the payments financed
out of the proceeds of the Set-aside Funds, and to disclose their
use in the 1994 Financing Plan; (ii) enable the Bank’s
representatives to examine the records and documents relevant to the
performance of the obligations of the Borrower under the
Implementation Agreement; and (iii) furnish to the Bank at regular
intervals all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the 1994 Financing Plan, its cost and, where appropriate,
the benefits to be derived from it, and the payments financed out of
the proceeds of the Set-aside Funds.

(b) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Guarantor,
the Bank and the Borrower, the Guarantor and the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank a joint report, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the carrying
out of the 1994 Financing Plan, its cost and the benefits derived
and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Bank of their respective obligations under the Implementation
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Set- aside
Funds." |

 
INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

CERTIFICATE
LOE

l hereby certif Vv that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the I nternational Bank

for Reconstruction and Development.

FOR SECRETARY

 
