Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

 

LOAN NUMBER 3739 BUL

Loan Agreement

(Water Companies Restructuring and Modernization Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated June 2G ~~ , 1995

 

 
LOAN NUMBER 3739 BUL
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT, dated JlUne 29 4, 1995, between
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of |
the Project;

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

 

 

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

(a) The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

(b) In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (1) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read: |

"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
the Benk’s Articles of Agreement." |

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

(a) "Eligible Companies" means RWC(s) (defined hereinafter)
and Municipal Water and Sewerage Companies which meet the
eligibility criteria set out in Part B.1l of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement ; |
-2.-

(b) “Manual of Procedures" means Manual of Procedures
setting out operational procedures for and functions of the PMU
(defined hereinafter), approved by MRD (defined hereinafter) ;

(c) "MRD" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Regional
Development and Construction; ,

(d) "NCRDH" meens the National Center for Regional
Development and Housing maintained within MRD as a specialized
institutes

(e) "PIAC" #£means Project Implementation Assistance
Consultant referred to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement;

(f£) "PMU" means Project Management Unit referred to in
Section 3.06 of this Agreement;

(g) “RWC(s)" means Regional Water and Sewerage Companies
established by MRD;

(h) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

(i) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made out
of the equivalent of the proceeds of the Loan by the Borrower for a
Sub-project (defined hereinafter) under terms and conditions set
forth in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement (defined hereinafter);

(45) "Sub- _project" 1 means a specific project to be carried out |
by an Eligible Company with the financing provided under Part A of
the Project through a Sub- loan; and |

(k) © "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any agreement entered
into between the Borrower and the Eligible Company pursuant to
Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement.

ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,

various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of ninety-eight million dollars ($98,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal. |

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services renuired for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in
respect of interest and other charges on the Loan.

(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Preject,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a banking
institution acceptable to the Bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

(c) On each of the semiannual interest payment dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Accouni and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay, on such date, interest and other
charges on 802 of the Loan accrued and payable on or before the date
set forth, and up to the amount allocated, in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall Promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to

Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

(c) For the purposes of this Section:

(i) "Interest Period" means a six-month period
| ending on the date immediately preceding each
date specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
which this Agreement is signed. |

(ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
as reasonably determined by the Bank and
expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

(iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
| second six months of a calendar year. |

(d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
applicable during such Interest Period."
.5-

"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of
each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
such Quarter."

"(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October i in
a calendar year."

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MRD
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, technical, economical, environmental and
commercial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project. |

Section 3.02. Without any limitation upon the provisions of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement and except as the Borrower and the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:

(a) ensure that the organizational structure, staffing and
functions of NCRDH will at all times be such as to facilitate
performance of this Project in a manner specified in Section 3.01;

(b) for the purpose of carrying out Part A and Part B (2) of
the Project: |

(i) on-lend to Eligible Companies the equivalent of
| the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to
time to Categories (1), (2) and (3) (a) of the

table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to

this Agreement under Subsidiary Loan Agreements
- 6 -

to be entered into between the Borrower and each
such Eligible Company, under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the
Bank, and which shall include, without
limitation, those set forth in Schedule 6 to
this Agreement; oe

(ii) exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Bank and the Borrower and to
accomplish the purposes of the Project, and
except as the Bank chall otherwise agree, not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive any such
agreement or any provision hereof; and

(iii) approve all Sub-ptojects eligible for Sub-loans
by December 31, 1999.

Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

Section 3.04. (a) By September 30, 1994, the Borrower shall
offer to all local authorities responsible for regions serviced by
RWCGs to participate as shareholders in the restructuring of RWCs
into Limited Liability Companies with not less than 49 percent of
shares owned by the local authorities; and :

—(b) by March 31, 1995, the Borrower shall complete the said
restructuring of all RWCs servicing regions controlled by local
authorities that accepted the Borrower’s offer to become
shareholders of the relevant RWCs. | |

Section 3.05. The Borrower shall submit to the Bank for prior
review and approval: (i) the first six Sub-projects; (ii) all Sub-
projects whose total cost equals or exceeds $5,000,000; (iii) all
Sub-projects that may involve potential population displacements,
together with the resettlement plan, acceptable to the Bank,
submitted by the Eligible Company in connection with such Sub-
project; (iv) all Sub-projects that involve use of surface water
from international waters, together with such information as would
enable the Bank to determine whether each such Sub-project meets the
eligibility criteria set out in Part B.2 of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement; (v) environmental analysis of each Sub-project, together
7.

with the evaluation of such analysis by the Ministry of Environment
of the Borrower, before each Sub-project is approved by the
Borrower; and (vi) the first two proposed activities to be carried
out under each, Part B (1) and Part B (2) of the Project.

Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that the PMU: (i)
is maintained within NCRDH with staffing, functions and responsi-
bilities satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) is at all times assisted
by PIAC satisfactory to the Bank with terms of reference acceptable
to the Bank; and (iii) is operated according to the Manual of
Procedures satisfactory to the Bank; and

(b) unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not amend or otherwise alter the Manual of Procedures or any
- provision thereof.

Section 3.07. With respect to the study to be carried out
under Part B (3) of the Project, the Borrower shall:

(i) by December 31, 1997, carry out the study under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank with
the assistance of consultants satisfactory to >
the Bank;

(ii) include in the terms of reference for the study
an examination of any potential riparian rights
issues and any population displacement issues,
if any;

(iii) within thirty days of completion of the study,
furnish to the Bank a copy of its findings and
recommendations; and |

(iv) within six months of completion of the study
furnish to the Bank its proposal on imple-
mentation of the study’s recommendations or
alternatives satisfactory to the Bank.

Section 3.08. Without any limitation upon the provisions of
Sections 9.01 and 9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank reports of such scope and detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request on the progress of the execution
of the Project, the performance of its respective obligations under —
this Agreement and on resource requirements necessary for the
- 8 -

subsequent period(s) in order to achieve the objectives of this
Project, including: |

(i) quarterly reports to be furnished to the Bank
within 20 days of the end of each quarter; |

(ii) annual implementation assessment reports and
annual project review reports to be furnished to
the Bank by March 30 of each year; and

(iii) a mid-term review report, to be furnished to the
- Bank by June 30, 1997. |

ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adeqitiate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

(b) The Borrower shall:

(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those
for the Special Account for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank;

(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
| any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year, the report of such audit by

said auditors, of such scope and in such detail

as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.
| (c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records and accounts reflecting such expen-
ditures; |

(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Bank

| has received the audit report for the fiscal

year in which the last withdrawal from the Loar

Account or payment out of the Special Account

was made, all records (contracts, orders,

invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
-  guch records; and |

(iv) » ensure that such records and accounts are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion
by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
_ Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the

meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

(a) restructuring of at least four RWCs as specified in
Section 3.04 of this Agreement has been completed;

| (b) the PIAC referred to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement
has been selected; and |
- 10 -

(c) all actions tiecessary for the implementation of MRD’s
tariff guidelines for water and sewerage companies satisfactory to
the Bank have been undertaken by the Council of Ministers.

Section 5.02. The following is specified as additional matter,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions,
to be included in the cpinion or opinions to be furnished to the
Bank, namely that all legal requirements for restructuring of at
least four RWCs into Limited Liability Companies have been
satisfied. | |

Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 6 Ol. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes: of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministry of Finance
102 Rakovski

1040 Sofia
Bulgaria

Telex:
22726
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
-ll-

Cable address: | Telex:

INTBAFRAD | 248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C. | 82987 (FTCC)

64145 (WUIL) or
197688 (TRT)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

-

REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA

By [sf Snezana Botusharoye

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Racha Lomax
ACcthnG@ Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia

 
- 12 -

SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

Amount of the
Loan Allocated % of
(Expressed in Expenditures

materials, civil

- works and installa-

tion under Part A (2)
of the Project

Category Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) Goods, equipment, 47,500,000 702 of foreign
materials, civil expenditures, 70%
works installa- of local expendi-
tion and turnkey tures (ex-factory
contracts under cost) and 70% of
Part A (1) of local expenditures
the Project for other items
procured locally
(2) Goods, equipment, 21,000,000 70% of foreign

expenditures, 702
of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory
cost) and 70% of
local expenditures
for other items
procured locally
- 13 -

Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in

Category Dollar Equivalent)
(3) Technical | 7,500,000
Assistance
(a) Consultants’ 3,000,000
ss gervices,

training and
equipment for
Part B (2)

of the Project

(b) Consultants’ 4,500,900
and audit
services and
equipment for
Parts B (1),
B (3) and B (4)
of the Project

(4) Interest and other 5,600,000
charges on the |
- Loan accrued on or

before January 3l,
2002

(5) Unallocated . 16,400,000

TOTAL | 98,000,000

% of
Expenditures
to be Financed

100% of foreign
expenditures, 1002

of local expendi-

tures (ex-factory
cost) 902 of

local expenditures
for other items
procured locally
and 100% of local
expenditures for
services

Amount due  pur-
suant to Section
2.02 (c) of this
Agreement

 
- 14 ~-

2. For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

(b) the term “local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower. | |

2
-15 -

SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project

The objectives of the Project are to: (i) imcrease the
corporate autonomy and commercial orientation of Regional Water and
Sewerage Companies and improve their operating efficiency and cost
recovery; (ii) improve health and environmental conditions in urban
areas and conserve water resources; and (iii) demonstrate the
feasibility and benefits of introducing transparent procurement
procedures, efficient contract management and competition for the
provision of goods, works and services. a

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A: Priority Water and Sewerage Investments

(1) Completion of ongoing investments, elimination of system
bottlenecks and rehabilitation and upgrading of water and sewerage
facilities.

(2) Reduction of water losses and improvement of operating
efficiency of water and sewerage companies through measures that
include installation of accurate production meters satisfying about
50% of the country’s total requirements, replacement of pipes and
accessories and purchase and installation of equipment needed to
improve commercialization as well as system operations and
maintenance. |

Part B: | Institutional Strengthening

(1) Carrying out a capacity building program for water and
sewerage companies through provision of technical assistance and in-
country training.

(2) Enhancing investment planning capabilities of water and
sewerage companies and carrying out supervision of construction
undertaken under Part A of this Schedule. :

(3) Carrying out a sector study on the topic of National Water
Resources Management. |

 
- 16 -

(4) Maintaining a Project Management Unit referred to in Section
3.06 of this Agreement.

kK

The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
- 17 -

SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule

Payment of Principal

Date Payment Due (expressed in dollars)*

determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal.
General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

February 1, 2000 2,355,000
August 1, 2000 2,440,000
February 1, 2001 2,525,000
August 1, 2001 2,615,000
February 1, 2002 2,710,000
August 1, 2002 2,805,000 —
February 1, 2003 2,905,000
August 1, 2003 3,010,000 —
February 1, 2004 3,115,000
August 1, 2004 3,225,000
February 1, 2005 3,340,000
August 1, 2005 | 3,460,000
February 1, 2006 3,580,000
August 1, 2006 — 3,710,000
February 1, 2007 3,840,000
August 1, 2007 3,975,000
February l, 2008 4, 115,000
August 1, 2008 | 4,260,000
February 1, 2009 4,415,000
August 1, 2009 4,570,000
February 1, 2010 4,730,000
August 1, 2010 4,900,000
February 1, 2011 5,075,000
August 1, 2011 5,255,000
February 1, 2012 5,440,000
August 1, 2012 29,630,000
* The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents

See

 
- 18 -

Premiums on Prepayment

Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable

time of prepayment below:

time of Prepayment

Not more than three years
before maturity

More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity

More than six years but
not more than ll years
before maturity

More than 11 years but not
more than 15 years
before maturity

More than 15 years before
maturity

Premium
The interest rate (expressed as a
percentage per annum) applicable to
the Loan on the day of prepayment
multiplied by: |

0.18

0.35
0.65

0.88
-~ 19 -

SCHEDULE 4
_ Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works

 

Part A: International Competitive Bidding

Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines). |

(a) For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder’s bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and
the other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such an
increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.

(b) In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with
this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the
Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Bank.

Part Bs: Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the Republic of
Bulgaria may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C3: Other Procurement Procedures

l. Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $1,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis

 
~ 20 -

of comparison of price quotations solicited froma list of at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

2. Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of
$250,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $3,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers from at least three different countries eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

3. Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or
less per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
_ procedures satisfactory to the Bank and using model documents agreed

with the Bank.

Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final

contracts:

(a) With respect to (i) each contract for goods and works
referred to in Part A of this Schedule and (ii) each contract
referred to in paragraph 3 of Part C of this Schedule for works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.

(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished |
pursuant to ‘Paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement .
- 2] -

(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2. The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

l. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981. For complex, time-based assignments, the
Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by
the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with
the Bank. | |

2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts nor to the
employment of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the
Bank and to amendments cf contracts raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above.

 
~ 92.

SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
le For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a) the term “eligible Categories" means Categories (1).
through (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 cf Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;

| (b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in

respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2. Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3. After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows: |

(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

(b) (i) For replenishment of the Special Account, the ©
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
deposits into the Special Account at such
intervals as the Bank shall specify. :

(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the

 
- 23 -

documents and other evidence required pursuant ©
to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment ©
or payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request,
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been
shown by said documents and other evidence to
have been paid out of the Special Account for
eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence. :

4. For-each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eli gible |
expenditures. .

5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

(a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
- further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

(b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories —
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date

 
2 24

of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures. .

6. (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

(b)  I£ the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount . |

(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

(d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions. |
~ 25 -

SCHEDULE 6

Terms and Conditions of the Subsidiary
Loan Agreements and Eligibility Criteria

A. Terms and Conditions

Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall agree otherwise, the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements to be entered into between the Borrower
and Eligible Companies for the purposes of Section 3.02(b) shall
contain the following principal terms:

Currency:

The Sub-loans will be denominated in leva.
Interest Rate:

The interest rate established at the time of approval of the
Sub-loan will be the Basic Rate (Central Bank Rediscount Rate) plus
6 percentage points. The interest rate will be adjusted every three
months to reflect the Basic Rate at the time.

Repayment Period:

The repayment period for the Sub-loans will be 13 years,
including a 3-year grace period for the repayment of both principal
and interest. During the grace period, interest will be capitalized
every six months.

Method of Repayment:

The Sub-loans will be repaid to the Borrower on an annuity
basis. 7 |

Protection of the Borrower’s and the Bank’s Rights:

The Eligible Companies shall undertake, among other things,
tos : | |

(i) carry out the Sub-projects with due diligence.
and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate technical, economic, financial,
engineering, environmental and commercial
practices, maintain adequate records and
(ii)

(iii)

(iv)

(v)

(vi).

- 26 -

provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities and other resources required for the
purpose;

procure the goods and services required for the
Sub-project in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement and use such goods
and services exclusively in the carrying out of
the Sub-project; |

enable the Borrower to inspect, by itself or
jointly with representatives of the Bank, if the
Bank shall so request, the goods and sites,
works, plans and construction included in the
Sub-project, the operation thereof, and any
relevant records and documents;

take out and maintain such insurance, against
such risks and in such amounts, as shall be
consistent with sound business practices,
including such insurance to cover hazards
incident to acquisition, transportation and
delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to the place of use or installation,
any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a
currency freely usable by the Eligible Company

to replace or repair such goods;

furnish as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each
fiscal year, copies of its financial statements
for such year, including the audit report, of
such scope and in such detail as the Borrower
shall reasonably request; and

furnish all information as the Bank shall
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and
to the administration, operations and financial
condition of the Eligible Company and to the
benefits to be derived from the Sub-project.

 
-27 -

Remedies:

The Borrower shall have the right to suspend or terminate the
rights of the Eligible Company to the use of the proceeds of the
Sub-loan upon failure by such Eligible Company to perform its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.

Resettlement:

For Sub-projects that may involve potential population
displacements, the Eligible Company will undertake to comply with
the resettlement guidelines of the Bank and will include as part of
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement a resettlement plan approved by the
Borrower and the Bank prior to the grant of the Sub-loan.

B. Eligibility Criteria

od. Eligibility Criteria for RWCs and funicinal Water and Sewerage
| Companies

A Subsidiary Loan Agreement may be entered into with a RWC
restructured as specified in Section 3.04(b) of this Agreement or a
Municipal Water and Sewerage Company which, the Borrower shall have
determined and the Bank shall have agreed:

(a) is in compliance with the MRD’s updated guidelines for
setting tariffs;

(b) is in compliance with the MRD requirements for reporting
performance indicators and with the provisions of the Bulgarian ©
Trade Act regarding capitalization, management and accounting
procedures;

(c) has prepared an improvement program with realistic
targets for each of the indicators along with a detailed description
of steps to be taken to improve operation and maintenance practices,
commercial and financial performance; and

(d) has agreed to participate in the training program under
Parts B (1) and (2) of the Project. |

 
~ 28 -

2. Eligibility Criteria for Sub-projects Involving Surface Water

from International Waters

A Sub-project that involves surface water from international
waters will be eligible for financing under a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement only if the Bank has determined that such Sub-project:

(a) will involve rehabilitation, upgrading and completion of
existing water and sewerage systems; and

(b) will have no adverse effect on the quantity and quality
of water flows to other riparians and will not be adversely affected
by the use of water that other riparians might make.
INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

CERTIFICATE

[ hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank

for Reconstruction and Development.

Sx GA.

 

FOR SECRETARY .

 
