Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

Loan Agreement

(National Highway Project)
between

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated D 20 . 1994

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 3748 CHA

 

 
LOAN NUMBER 3748 CHA

LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT, dated Jt a ae , 1994, between PEOPLE’S

REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) .

WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project; |

(B) the Project will be carried out by Hebei Province (Hebei,
as herein defined) and Henan Province (Henan, as herein defined) :
with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the

. Borrower will make available to Hebei and Henan the proceeds of the

Loan as provided in this Agreement; and

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreements
of even date herewith between the Bank and Hebei and the Bank and
Henan;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I.
General: Conditions; Def initions

Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement: |

(a) The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

(b) In Section 6.02, sub- -paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub- paragraph (1) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
under wh.ch any further withdrawals under the
Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of
Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of
Agreement." —
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

(a) "Hebei" means Hebei Province, a political subdivision of
the Borrower, or any successor thereto.

. (b) "Henan" means Henan Province, a political subdivision of
the Borrower, or any successor thereto.

(c) "Highway" means the Shij iazhuang- -Xinxiang highway to be
constructed under Part A.1 of the Project and shall, where the
context requires, be construed to mean the portion of the Highway to
be constructed in Hebei or Henan as the case may be.

(d) "Project Agreemex:ts means collectively the agreements
between the Bank and Hebei and the Bank and Henan of even date
herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreements; "Hebei Project Agreement" means singularly the
said agreement between the Bank and Hebei; "Henan Project Agreement"
means singularly the said agreement between the Bank and Henan; and
"concerned Project Agreement" means, in respect: of Hebei, the Hebei
Project Agreement and, in respect of Henan, the Henan Project
Agreement. | |

(e) "Special Accounts" means the accounts collectively
referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; "Hebei Special
Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) (i) of
this Agreement; and "Henan Special Account" means the account
referred to in Section 2.02 (b) (ii) of this Agreement.

ARTICLE ITI
The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall ‘have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of three hundred eighty million dollars ($380,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Lean.

(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in Dollars two separate special deposit accounts for:

(i) Parts A.l(a), A.2(a), B.1(a), C.l(a), C.2.
D.1(a), D.2(a), D.3(a), and D.4(a); and

(ii) Parts A.1(b), A.2(b), B.1(b), C.1(b), D.1(b),
D.2(b), D.3(b), and D.4(b) of the Project, each
in a bank or banks, acceptable to the Bank, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Hebei Special Account and
Henan Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedules 4 and 5 to this
Agreement respectively. |

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shail be June 30, 2000 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
_ annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to.
time.

Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the >
dates specified. in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period. :
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Semester.

(c) For the purposes of this Section:

(3) "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
on the date immediately preceding -each date
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
beginning with the Interest Period in which this
Agreement is signed. :

(ii) "Cost. of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as

| reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed

aS a percentage per annum, of the outstanding

borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,

1982, excluding such borrowings or portions

thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)

the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may

be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing

interest rates determined otherwise than as
provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

(iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.

(d) On such date as the Bank may specify by ne less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (111) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
.from-time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
applicable during such Interest Period."

"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each
Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
Quarter. " | :
"(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
a calendar year."

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IIT
Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall
cause Hebei and Henan to perform in accordance with the provisions
of the concerned Project Agreement all the obligations of Hebei and
Henan therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Hebei and Henan to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.

(b) The Borrower shall onlend $240,000,000 equivalent and
$140,000,000 equivalent from the proceeds of the Loan to Hebei and
Henan respectively on the following principal terms and conditions:
(i) the onlent proceeds shall be repaid over a period of twenty
years, including five years of grace; (ii) Hebei and Henan shall
each pay interest on the onlent principal amount withdrawn by it and
| outstanding from time to time at a rate equivalent to eighty-five

percent of the rate calculated in accordance with Section 2.05 of
this Agreement ; (111) Hebei and Henan shall each pay to the Borrower
a commitment charge on the onlent principal amount not withdrawn by
it from time to time at the rate stated in Section 2.04 of this
Agreement, and (iv) Hebei and Henan shall each bear the foreign
exchange risk on its portion of the onlent proceeds of the Loan.

| Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works, and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shail be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreements. | |

Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A.1(a),
A.2(a), B.1l(a), C.1(a), C.2, D.1(a), D.2(a), D.3(a) and D.4(a), and
Parts A.1(b), A.2(b), B.1(b), C.1(b), D.1(b), D.2(b), D.3(b) and ©
D.4(b) of the Project shall be carried out by Hebei and Henan
respectively pursuant to Section 2.093 of the concerned Project
Agreement. |

ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: |

(i) maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
with sound accounting practices, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;

(ii) ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures are retained until
at least one year after the Bank has received the
audit report for the fiscal year in which the

- last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made;
and : |

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
records.

(b) The Borrower shall:

(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) (i) of this Section including those
for the Special Accounts for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank;

(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
- any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested,
including a separate opinion by said auditors as
to whether the statements of expenditure
submitted during such fiscal year, together with
the procedures and internal controls involved in
their preparation, can be relied upon to support
the related withdrawals; and

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.

ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank

Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.62 (k) of the General
Conditions, the foliswing additional events are specified:

(a) Hebei or Henan shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the concerned Project Agreement.

(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shali make it improbable that Hebei or Henan will be able to
perform its’ obligations under the concerned Project Agreement.

| Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of ninety days
after notice thereof Shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination

Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement.
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Borrower's State Council has approved this
Agreement. |

Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Hebei Project Agreement and
the Henan Project Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by
Hebei and Henan respectively, and are legally binding upon Hebei and
Henan respectively in accordance with their respective terms.

Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this

Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of

Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

‘Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 cf the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China.

Cable address: Telex:

FINANMIN 22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing |
For the Bank:

International Bank for
Reconstructicn and Development

1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address: Telex:
INTBAFRAD 248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C. 82987 (FTCC),

64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

 PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

i dace

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

»y [Sf

— Nieclolos dene

A cheng Regional Vice President |
: East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
oi. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be.
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the

amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: ©

Amount of the

Loan Allocated | % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category | Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) (a) Civil works:
(i) under Part A.1(a) 151,300,000 50%
of the Project |
(ii) under Part A.2(a) 24,300,000 80%
of the Project. | :
(iii) under Part B.1(a) ~ 9,500,000 — 39%
of the Project |
(b) Equipment under : 13,100,000 100% of foreign
Part C.1(a) and C.2 | oy expenditures, 100%
of the Project | of local expendi-
| tures (ex-factory
cost) and 75% of
local expenditures
procured locally |
(c) Consultants’ : 6,600,000 100%

services and
training under

Parts D.1(a), D.2(a)
D.3(a) and D.4(a) of |
the Project |

(a) Unallocated | 35,200,000

Sub-total > | 240,000,000
Category Dollar Equivalent)

(2) (a) Civil works

(i) under Part A.1(b)

Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in

91,300,000

% Of
Expenditures

to be Financed

50%
of the Project
(ii) under Part A.2(b) 8,100,000 80%
of the Project
(iii) under Part B.1(b) 4,000,000 39%
of the Project
(b) Equipment under 12,800,000 100% of foreign
Part C.1(b) of the | | expenditures, 100%
Project of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory
cost) and 75% of
local expenditures
procured locally
(c) Consultants’ services — 2,500,000 100%
and training under
Parts D.1(b), D.2({b),
D.3(b) and D.4(b) of
the Project
(d) Unallocated 21,300,000
Sub-total 140,000,000
TOTAL 380,000,000
2. For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in

the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
| (b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower. |

3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$850,000 and $350,000, may be made on account of payments made in
respect of Category 1 (c) and Category 2 (c) respectively on account
of payments made for expenditures before that date but after
February 1, 1994. |

4. The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure, for expenditures
under contracts for training, goods and civil works not exceeding
$250,000 equivalent under such terms and conditions as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
-- 13 -

SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project

The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower’s
Hebei and Henan Provinces to: (i) relieve transport congestion and
improve the integration of interregional commerce, (ii) facilitate
access within the area of influence of the Highway, (iii) strengthen
the interprovincial coordination of trunk road operations and
promote the free flow of goods and travellers between Hebei and
Henan, and (iv) improve road investment planning and strengthen the
provincial highway agencies. |

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A: .Construction of Highway
1. Construction of about 340 kilometers long four lane (each

about 3.75 meters wide), paved access-controlled highway between
Shijiazhuang and Xinxiang as follows:

(a) Construction in Hebei of (i) about 216 kilometers between
Shijiazhuang and the Henan border, including two shoulders about
3.25 meters wide in accordance with the national geometric standards
for expressways, grade separations, bridges, underpasses,
overpasses, and culverts; (ii) about five service facilities for
fuel pumps, vehicle repair, restaurants, parking and rest areas,
commercial centers, and associated minor civil works along the
Highway; (iii) about three facilities for administration and
maintenance of the Highway; and (iv) transmission lines and
installation of equipment required to supply electrical power for
the operation of the Highway.

-(b) Construction in Henan of (i) about 124 kilometers between
Xinxiang and the Hebei border, including two shoulders about 3.25
meters wide in accordance with the national geometric standards for
expressways, grade separations, bridges, underpasses, overpasses,
and culverts; (ii) about two service facilities for fuel pumps,
vehicle repair, restaurants, parking and rest areas, commercial
centers, and associated minor Civil works along the Highway; (111)
about three facilities for administration and maintenance of the
Highway; and (iv) transmission lines and installation of equipment
- 14 -

required to supply electrical power for the operation of the
Highway.

2. Supply and installation of electrical, electronic and
mechanical equipment for toll collection, traffic monitoring,
telecommunication and lighting of bridges and interchanges on or
along the Highway in: (a) Hebei, and (b) Henan. |

Part B: | interconnecting Roads Improvement Program

Carrying out of an Interconnecting Roads Improvement Program
(IRIP) for the rehabilitation and upgrading of: (a) about eleven
roads nearly 100 kilometers long in Hebei; and (b) about three roads
nearly 60 kilometers long in Henan.

Part C: Supply of Equipment
1. Provision of equipment for control of construction quality and

for monitoring of the environment during construction of the
Highway, operation and maintenance of the Highway, and maintenance
of the provincial road network, in (a) Hebei, and (b) Henan.

2. Provision of equipment for the road data bank and pavement
management system in Hebei.

Part D: Technical Assistance
1. Provision of training for supervision of construction of the

Highway and IRIP in: (a) Hebei, and (b) Henan.

2. Carrying out of a study on highway capacity in: (a) Hebei; and
(6) Henan to develop guidelines for capacity analysis for interurban
highways and major types of intersections to be used in planning,
feasibility studies, and design.

3. Carrying out, in (a) Hebei; and (b) Henan, of: (i) a study on
traffic facilitation to facilitate interprovincial traffic flows;
and (ii) Hebei-Henan Expressway Operation Coordination Plan to
strengthen coordination of the Highway operations between Hebei and
Henan. : |

4. Carrying out of staff training programs for: (a) Hebei’s, and
(b) Henan’s highway, traffic and transport personnel in highway,
traffic and transport management, administration and operations
including planning, design, construction, traffic operations and
- 15 -

maintenance, financial and contract management, and environmental
. monitoring. |

kx *k* «*

The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.

 
- 16 -

SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule

Payment of Principal

Date Payment Due

January 15, 2000 7,200,000
July 15, 2000 7,460,000
January 15, 2001 7,730,000
July 15, 2001 8,015,000
January 15, 2002 8,305,006
July 15, 2002 8,605,000
January 15, 2003 8,920,000
July 15, 2003 9,245,000
January 15, 2004 9,580,000
July 15, 2004 9,925,000
January 15, 2005 (10,290,000

July 15, 2005
January 15, 2006
July 15, 2006
January 15, 2607
July 15, 2007

(expressed in dollars) *

10,660,000
11,050,000
11,450,000

11,870,000

12,300,000

January 15, 2008 12,745,000
July 15, 2008 13,210,000
January 15, 20909 13,690,000

July 15, 2009
January 15, 2010
July 15, 2010
January 15, 2011
July 15, 2011
January 15, 2012
July 15, 2012
January 15, 2013
July 15, 2013

14,185,000
14,705,000
15,235,000
15,790,000
16,365,000
16,960,000
17,575,000
18,215,000
18,880,000

January 15, 2014 19,565,000
July 15, 2014 20,275,000
* The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents

determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal . See General |

Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
- 17 -

Premiums on Prepayment

Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the app..icable
time of prepayment below:

Time of Prepayment Premium

The interest rate
(expressed as a
percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan
on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:

Not more than three years 0.15
before maturity

More than three years but 0.30
not more than six years
before maturity

More than six years but . 0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity

More than 11 years but not : 0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity

More than 16 years but not | 0.90
more than 18 years |
before maturity

More than 18 years before | 1.00
maturity

 
- 18 -

SCHEDULE 4
Hebei Special Account
1. For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories l(a),
1(b), and 1(c) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule i
to this Agreement;

(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for .
Parts A.1l(a), A.2(a), B.1(a), C.1(a), C.2, D.1(a), D.2(a), D.3(a),
and D.4(a) of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $20,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Hebei Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.

2. Payments out of the Hebei Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule. |

3. After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Hebei Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Hebei Special Account shall be made as follows:

(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Hebei Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

(b) (i) For replenishment of the Hebei Special Account,
| the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests
for deposits into the Hebei Special Account at

such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
- 19 -

(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
documents and other evidence required pursuant
to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
or payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request,
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
the Hebei Special Account such amount as the
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have
been shown by said documents and other evidence
to have been paid out of the Hebei Special
Account for eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in ‘the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence. |

4. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Hebei Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures. |

5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Hebei Special Account:

(a) aif, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

(b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories for Parts A.1l(a), A.2(a), B.i(a), C.1(a),
C.2, D.1i(a), D.2(a), D.3(a), and D.4(a) of the Project, less the >
amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to said parts of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

 
~ 20 -

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
for Parts A.1l(a), A.2(a), B.1(a), C.1(a), C.2, D.1(a), D.2(a),
D.3(a), and D.4(a) of the Project shall follow such procedures as >
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Hebei Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6. (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Hebei Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Hebei Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into
the Hebei Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such Ceposit or refund, as the case
may be.

(b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Hebei Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount. |

(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Hebei Special
Account.

(d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions. oe

 
- 21 -

SCHEDULE 5
Henan Special Account
1. For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 2(a),
2(b), and 2(c) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;

(b) the term “eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Parts A.1(b), A.2(b), B.1(b), C.1(b), D.1(b), D.2(b), D.3(b), and
D.4(b) of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $13,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Henan Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.

2. Payments out of the Henan Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule. |

3. After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Henan Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Henan Special Account shall be made as follows:

(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Henan Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

(b) (i) For replenishment of the Henan Special Account,
| the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests
for deposits into the Henan Special Account at

such intervals as the Bank shall specify.

 
-~ 22 -

(1i) Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
documents and other evidence required pursuant
to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
or payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request,
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
the Henan Special Account such amount as the
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have
been shown by said documents and other evidence
to have been paid out of the Henan Special
Account for eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said |
documents and other evidence. | |

4. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Henan Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures. | | :

5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Henan Special Account:

(a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or | a

(b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories for Parts A.1(b), A.2(b), B.1(b), C.1(b),
D.1(b), D.2(b), D.3(b), and D.4(b) of the Project, less the amount —
of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
said parts of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.

 
- 23 -

| Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
for Parts A.1(b), A.2(b), B.1(b), C.1(b), D.1(b), D.2(b), D.3(b),
and D.4(b) of the Project shall follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Henan Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6. (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Henan Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Henan Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into
the Henan Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be. |

(b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Henan Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

(c) “The Borrower may, upon siotice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Henan Special
Account. :

(dd) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions. | a

 
INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

CERTIFICATE

[ hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank

for Reconstruction and Development.

QW Ch

FORSECRETARY

 
