    
    
 
 

. £38 - Fs 3

. * -. a
OEE ited «aE od 3 we q i

| ea ek an “
pated

% “% .

 

 

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 3822 EC

Loan Agreement
‘(Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated #24/-a/y /o , 1995

 

 
LOAN NUMBER. 3822 EC
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated 7C¢//07/ /o , 1995, between REPUBLIC OF

ECUADOR (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). |

_ WHEREAS: (A) the National Congress of the Borrower passed a law on public
sector budgets (the Budget Law) published in the Registro Oficial No. 76 on November
30, 1992 which, together with the regulations published in Registro Oficial No. 136
(second Supplement) on February 26, 1993, sets forth the general rules for the
programming, formulation, approval, execution, control, evaluation and liquidation of
the Borrower’ $ public sector budgets;

. ®) the National Congress of the Borrower passed a law on the modernization
of the state, privatization and provision of public services by private enterprises (the
Modernization of the State Law) published in the Registro Oficial No. 349 on
December 31, 1993 which, together with the regulations published in Registro Oficial
No. 411 (supplement) on March 31, 1994, sets forth the general rules for: (1)
rationalization and administrative efficiency of the Bor:‘ower’s public sector; (2)
decentralization, deconcentration and simplification of the Burrower’s public sector; (3)
provision of public services by private enterprises; and (4) divestment of the state’s
participation in public enterprises; —

| (C) Article 8 of the Modernization of the State Law created CONAM (as
hereinafter defined) as the public sector entity in charge of managing, coordinating and
Supervising the modernization process provided by such Law;

Article 2 of the Modernization of the State Law provides that such law
will be applicable to all agencies of the Borrower and to any Ecuadoran public sector
entity;

. ~(€) sby agreement dated keem $y a Ak ithe Japanese Grant Agreement), the
Government of Japan (apan) has agreed to make a grant (the Japanese Grant) to the
Borrower in an aggregate amount equivalent to 59,900,000 yen to assist in financing the
Project on the terms and conditioxs set forth in the Japanese Grant Agreemeni;

(F) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist
in the * Rnancing of the Project; and |
-2-

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to
extend the Loan to ) the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements” of the Bank, dated Januaiy 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below
(the General. Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a) The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

(b) _ In Section 6.02, subparagraph i releead as suparagraph (and
a new subparagraph (k) is added to read: | :

"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which
any further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the
| provisions of Article I) Section 3 of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following

 @_ “Acquisitions Committee" means the committee referred to in Section
3.05 (a) (iv) of this Agreement;

(>) “Administrative Coordination Group” means the group referred to in
Section 3.05 (a) (ii) of this Agreement,

(c) * Annual Operating Plan" means any of the plans referred to in Section |
- 3.09 (b) of this Agreement; |

@ "BCE means Banco Central del Ecuador, the Borrower’s Central Bank:

| © = "CGE" means Contralorfa General del Estado, the Borrower ’s Controller
General’s Office;

 
-3-

()  “CONADE" means Consejo Nacional de Desarrollo, the Borrower's
_ National Development Council; |

(g) | "CONAM" means Conseio Nacional de Modernizacién del Estado, the.
-Borrower’s National Council of Modernization of the State;

| (h) "Core Executing Agencies" means the following Executing Agencies (as
hereinafter defined): BCE, CGE, CONAM, SENDA (as hereinafter defined) and SGP
(as hereinafter defined);

 @ “EMETEL" means Empresa Ecuatoriana de Telecomunicacionss the
Borrower's Telecommunications Company;

(j) "EMETEL Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 3.02
(d);

«& “Executing Agency” means any Public Sector Entity (as hereinafter
defined) that has entered into a Participation Arrangement (as hereinafter defined) ora
Restructuring Agreement (as hereinafter defined), as the case may be; | |

@ "Implementation Program" means the program set forth in the letter from
the Borrower to the Bank of even date herewith (Supplemental Letter No. 1); |

| (m) “Informatics Commission” means the commission refecred to in Section
3.05 (a) Gii) of this Agreement;

@)  “MFCP" means Ministerio de Finanzas y Crédito Publico, the Borrower's
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit; :

(0) "Operating Manual" means the Borrower’s manual for the operation of
the Project, dated December 2, 1994;

(p) "Participation Arrangement” means any of the arrangements referred to
in n Section 3.02 0);

(1) "Project Coordinator" means any of the coordinators referred to in |
Section 3.05 (e) (i) (A) of this Agreement, |

(r) “Project Preparation Advance" means the 2 Project preparation advance ©
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to a letter from the Bank dated March 5,
1993, countersigned by the Borrower on March 11, 1993, as amended; |
4.

(s) “Project Unit" means the group referred to in Section 3.05 (a) (i) of this
Agreement; : | | |

(t) "Public Sector Entity" means any agency of the Borrower or any
Ecuadoran public sector entity referred to in Article 128 of the Borrower’s Constitution;

@ "Restructuring Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in
Section 3.02 (c);

(v) "SENDA" means s Secretaria Nacional de Desarrollo Administrativo, the
Borrower’ s National Secretariat of Administrative Development;

| (w) "SGP" means Secretaria General de Pianiticacss. the Borrower’ S General
Secretariat of Pianning;

| (x) "Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement, |

— y) "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 3.02
(a) of this Agreement;
(Zz) "Training Program" means the program set forth in the letter from the

Borrower to the Bank of even date herewith (Supplemental Letter No. 2); and

| (aa) “Twinning Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 3.02

(e). |
ARTICLE 1
The Loan

- Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that shall
have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of twenty million Dollars
($20,000,000), being the sum of withdrawais of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
| expenditures made (or, if the Bark shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the |

 
-3-

reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2
to Gils Agreement and t be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. |

(b) ‘The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain
in Dollars a special deposit account either: (i) in BCE, on terms and conditions
Satisfactory to the Bank; or (ii) in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions
Satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding
as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the
authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such later date as the
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the
Te Dane ed ge Re Decent (i$ of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time. :

| Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the

Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal
amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable
during such Interest Period.

(b) As son upianiohe oben smd of ech Some, the Bank shall
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such

Semester.

(c) For the purposes of this Section:

(i) "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date

| immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of
this Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this
Agreement is signed.
#§-

(ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per
annum, of the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank’s
investments; and (B) loans which may be made by the Bank
after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

— @ii) “Semester” means the first six months or the second six months
of a calendar year. |

@ On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months” noiice
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to read
as follows:

"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount
of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for
each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in —
respect of the preceding Quarter, plus one-haif of one percent (i/2 of
1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
applicable during such Interest Period." |

"() As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Quarter."

| "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing on
January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."

. Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on
February 1 and August 1 in each year. |

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

Section 2.08. The Executive Director of CONAM or any person designated by
him or her in writing is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
7.

taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02
of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.

ARTICLE Il
Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. @) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the
_ Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and managerial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,

_ the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.

(b) The Borrower shall:

(i) _—sttake or caus to be taken all action, including the provision of |
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable the Executing Agencies to participate in

the carrying out of the Project; and

(Gi) _not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent
or interfere with the partici- pation of the Executing Agencies
in the carrying out of the Project.

| (c) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of

this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower

Shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Annual Operating Plans, the
Implementation Program and the Operating Manual.

@ Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraph (a) |
hereof, the Borrower shall allocate in each of its annual budgets, and make available
promptly as needed, the counter- part funds required for Project implementation as
provided in the Annual Operating Plan for the respective year.

() By no later than thirty (30) days after the Effective Date, the Borrower
shall: |

@ open and thereafter maintain, unti) completion. of the Project,
a deposit account in a bank, under terms and conditions
Satisfactory to the Bank, for purposes of managing the
counterpart funds referred to in subparagraph (d) above;
(ii)

maka snd initial deposit la the account. referred’ %6 fa
subparagraph (i) above for an amount equivalent to $250,000.

Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall enter into an agreement with CONAM,
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including the following terms and |

conditicns:

(i)

(ii)

(iii)

the transfer to CONAM of part of the proceeds of the Loan

allocated from time to time to the Categories set forth in the
table in Paragraph 1 of Sck:dule 1 to this Agreement and the

counterpart funds required for the implementation of the

Project;

CONAWM’s overall coordination of the execution of the Project;
CONAM’s obligation to take all actions necessary or

appropriate to enable the Borrower to comply with its
obligations under this Agreement.

(6) The Borrower, through MFCP, shall enter into arrangements providing
for the participation of any interested Public Sector Entity in the execution of Part A of
the Project, such arrangements to contain provisions satisfactory to the Bank, including,

inter alia:

(i)

Gi)

appropriate provisions for the operation, maintenance and

repairs of the informatic equipment financed out of the

proceeds of the Loan and the training of the respective Entity’s

personnel; and.

provisions whereby MFCP shall avail of the powers conferred
by the Budget Law to reject the budget proposal of the

_ respective Entity in any event of non-compliance bys such Entity

under the corresponding arrangements.

(c) The Borrower shall ensure that CONAM enters into agreements with
other interested Public Secior Entities, providing for the restructuring of such Entities —
under Part B.2 (c) of the Project and containing terms and conditions satisfactory to the —
Bank, including provisions whereby such Entity shall § prepare and, upon CONAM’s
approval, carry out a financing plan to cover employees’ departure costs (including
severance payments) and remuneration enhancements of the remaining personnel.
7?

_ @ ‘The Borrower shall ensure that CONAM enters into an agreement with
EMETEL, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for the purposes of the
operation, maintenance and repairs, in accordance with appropriate technica! standards,
of the comaunications infrastructure required for the functioning of the information
systems financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. os

| (e) ‘The Borzower shall enter into an agreement, under terms 2nd conditions
Satisfactory to the Bank, with the Ministry of Pianning of the Republic of Chile, for the

_ purposes of strengthening SGP’s strategic planning activities.

(f) _ The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement, |
the EMETEL Agreement and the Twinning Agreement, and shall enforce the provisions
of the Participation Arrangements, in such a manner as to:

aq protect the interests of the Borrower and ihe Bank;
(i) comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and
(iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.

| (y) § The Borrower shall ensure that CONAM exercises its rights and comply
with its obligations under the Restructuring Agreements, in such a manner as to:

| (i) - protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank; |
— Gi) comply with its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement;
(iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.

Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods _

and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shali be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

- Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article Ix of the General :
Conditions, the Borrower shall:

(a) prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after thé
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, for the future operation of the Project;
-10-

(o) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the
Borrower on | said plan; and

(c) thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Bank’s comments thereon.

Section 3.05. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensuze that CONAM will maintain, until completion of the Project:

i)

Gi)

(iii)

(iv)

a Project unit, responsible for oversecing the implementation of

the Project by the Executing Agencies and making policy
recommendations to CONAM;

an administrative coordination group, respon- sible for the
coordination of procurement and disbursements to be carried
out under the Project and the administration of related records,
accounts and audits, pursuant to Section 4.01 of this
Agreement, | |

an informatics commission, responsible for the development
and implementation of the Borrower’ s informatics plan; and

an acquisitions committee, responsible for approving bidding

documents and contracts for goods to be financed out of the

proceeds of the Loan, as provided in paragraph 2 of Section IV.

of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

(b) The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Unit, the Administrative
Coordination Group, the Informatics Commission and the Acquisitions Committee are,
at all times until completion of the Project, staffed by professionals, with qualifications,
experience, functions and responsibilities Satisfactory to the Bank, assisted by qualified
personnel in adequate numbers.

(c) The Borrower shall. ensure that CONAM retains, within its administrative —
unit, until completion of the Project, a procurement advisor, with qualifications and
experience Satisfactory to the Bank, such coordinstor:

(i)

to assist the Administrative Coordination Group in the
coordination of the procurement to be carried out under the
Project; aad
-i1-

(ii) to train such Unit's staff on procurement matters relevant for
the Project. |

@ The Borrower shall ensure that CONAM provides, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the discharge of the
functions of the Project Unit, the Administrative Coordination Group, the Informatics
Commission and the Acquisitions Committee. _

(e) The Borrower shall cause e each Executing Agency:
(i) to appoint and retain, until completion of the Project:

(A) Project coordinators with qualifications, experience,
| functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank;

(B) qualified staff in adequate numbers, as counterparts of
the consultants employed umder the Project; and

(ji) —_—« to provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
| and other resources required for the discharge of the functions
of the Project coordinators. —

| Section 3.06. The Borrower shall ensure that all the Executing Agencies, other
than CONAM, shall, in accordance with the Annual Operating Plan: |

(i) _ prepare and furnish to the Project Unit the information required
| for the reports referred to in Section 3.09 of this Agreement;
and oe

(i) —_ coordinate with the Administrative Coordination Group the
| procurement of goods and the selection of consultants to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, under their

corresponding Participation Arrangements or Restructuring
Agreements.

__ Section 3.07. With regard to the services of the consultants to be hired under the
Project in accordance with the respective Annual Operating Plan, the Borrower shall and
shall ensure that the Core Executing Agencies: :
-12-

(a) promptly after the completion of each service, furnish to the Bank copy
of the consultants’ findings and recommendations; |

(b) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on such findings
and recommendations; and |

(c) ‘review and implement, as the case may be, the recommendations of such
consultants, taking into account the Bank’s comments thereon.

| Section 3.08. With regard to the training programs to be carried out under the
Project in accordance with the respective Annual Operating Plan, the Borrower shall, and
shall ensure that the Core Executing Agencies:

| (a) furnish to the Bank, for its approval, the contents, schedule and selection
criteria of the respective programs;

| (b) carry out such training programs in accordance with the contents,
schedule and selection criteria approved by the Bank; and

(c) furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request, on the results of each such training program and the benefits to
be derived therefrom.

Section 3.09. (a) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section
9.07 of the General Conditions, by no later than January 31, April 30, July 31 and
October 31, of each year, during the execution of the Project, starting oa April 30, 1995,
the Borrower shall ensure that CONAM, through the Project Unit, shali furnish to the
Bank, for its review and comments, a report on the progress achieved in the execution
of the Project, with regard to the quarters ending December 31, March 31, June 30 and
_ September 30, respectively, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank may reasonably
request.

(b) The Borrower shali ensure that the progress reports, referred to in
paragraph (a) above and to be furnished by no later than October 31 of each year of
Project execution, will also include an annual operating plan for the implementation of —
the Project by the Core Executing Agencies during the upcoming calendar year, such plan

to comprise: |

@ the main activities to be carried out under the Project during |
the respective year;

 
-13-

(i) the objectives, expected results or outputs of such activities;

(iii) the corresponding cost estimates and budgets, including
| counterpart funds;

(iv) the respective evaluation criteria and performance indicators;
(v) __ the relevant institutional arrangements and responsibilities; and
(vi) _the timetables for implementation,

- all in accordance with the Implementation Program and the Operating Manual.

(c) Uponthe Bank’ S approval, the Borrower shall, and shall ensure that the -
Core Executing Agencies, carry out such Annual Operating Plan in accordance with its
terms.

Section 3.10. (a) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section
9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower and CONAM, through the Project Unit,
Shall, by no later than November 30, 1996, review in conjunction with the Bank the
- overall progress achieved in the implementation of the Project, such review:

(i) _ to be based on the progress reports referred to in Section 3.09
of this Agreement, the Implementation Program and the
Operating Manual; and

(ii) ¢ include an assessment of:

(A) the compliance of the Borrower’s obligations set forth
or referred to in this Agreement; and

(B) _the available findings and recommendations of the
| consultants hired under the Project.

(b) If, as a result of the above review, the Bank determines that the progress
in the execution of the Project or in the achievement of its objectives is not satisfactory,
the Borrower shall, and shall ensure that the Executing Agencies, promptly take all such
action, satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be necessary for the efficient execution of the

Project or the general achievement of its objectives. |
-14-

ARTICLE IV
_ KBinancial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
| the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project. |

(&) The Borrower shall:

Gi)

Gi)

‘Gi

have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this, Section including those for the Special Account for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing —
principles consistently applied, by independent private auditors
acceptable to the Bank;

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such year, the

report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request. |

(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan
_ Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

(i)

(ii)

(iii) :

maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts
reflecting such expenditures;

retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account

was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;

enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
-15-

(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual —
| audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of suck audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to

support the related withdrawals.

ARTICLE VY
Remedies of the Bank

Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 () of the General Conditions, the
following additional events are specified:

@ the Modernization of the State Law or the Budget Law or their
corresponding regulations or any provision thereof, shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, materially and
adversely the ability of the Borrower or any of the Executing Agencies to perform any
of their respective obligations or undertakings set forth or referred to in this Agreement, _
the Subsidiary Agreement, the Participation Arrangements, the Restructuring Agreements,
the EMETEL Agreement or the Twinning Agreement, as the case may be;

(b) ~— the Borrower or any of the Executing Agencies shall have failed to
perform any of their respective obligations or undertakings under the Subsidiary
Agreement, the Participation Arrangements, the Restructuring Agreements, the EMETEL
Agreement or the Twinning Agreement, as the case may be; |

(Cc) as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Borrower of any of the Executing Agencies will be able to perform their
_ respective obligations or undertakings under the Subsidiary Agreement, the Participation
Arrangements, the Restructuring Agreements, the EMETEL Agreement or the Twinning
Agreement, as the case may be;

(d) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower or any other
authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of BCE, CONAM or EMETEL or for the suspension of its operations _
so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, materially and adversely, the ability of the
Borrower, BCE, CONAM or EMETEL to perform any of their respective obligations or
-16-—

undertakings under this Agreement, the Subsidiary Agreement, the Participation
Arrangements, the Restructuring Agreements or the Agreement, as the case may be;

(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph the right of the
| Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the J apanese Grant shall
have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in

part, pursuant to the terms thereof.

(i) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that:

(A) such suspension, cancellation or termination is not
_ caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any
of its obligations under such Agreement; and —

(B) adequate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.

Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the
following additional events are specified:
| (a) any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and

(b) any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (d) of Section 5. 01 of this
_ Agreement shall occur.

ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the

effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:

a (a) that BCE, CGE, CONAM, SENDA and SGP shall have entered into their
respective Participation Arrangements; _ |

 
-17-
(b) that the Borrower, through MFCP, shall have entered into the e Subsidiary
Agreement. |

Section 6.02. The date jay (, 96 is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. |

ARTICLE Vil
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.

- Section 7.02. The , following addresses are specified for the purpos: 's of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions: |

For the Borrower:

Ministerio de Finanzas y Crédito Publico
Avenida 10 de Agosto y Jorge Washington
Quito, Ecuador

Cable address: | Telex:

MINFINANZAS 22358 MINFIN-ED
Quito, Ecuador | .

For the Bank:

International Bank for _ |
Reconstruction and Development

1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America
- 18 -

Cable address: | Telex:

INTBAFRAD 248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C. | 82987 (FTCC)
| 64145 (WUD) or
197688 (TRT)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first —
above written.

REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR

» /S flops Jt RAR)

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

2 Sei- Kany Bi gee

ACIN/C Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean |

 
- 19-

SCHEDULE 1
| Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

Amount of the | |
_ Loan Allocated  % of
| | (Expressed in | Expenditures —
(1) Consultants’ | 9,200,000 | 100%
(2) Goods 5,900,000 90% of foreign
| | expenditures and
60% of local
expenditures
(3) Training | 700,000 60% of foreign
| expenditures and
60% of local
expenditures
(4) _~_sIncremental | — 79Q,000 60%, until with-
Operating | — | _ drawals under
Costs | | this Category
| | | have reached an
aggregate amount
equivalent to
$500,000; and 30%,

: thereafter
Amount of the
| Loan Allocated | % of
| | | (Expressed in Expenditures
(5) Refunding of 1,500,000 -—»- Amounts due
Project pursuant to
Preparation | | — Section 2.02 (c)
Advance | a of this Agreement
(6) Unallocated | 2,000,000 —
TOTAL 20,000,000

ap Om ae GED Ge ae Ge oD aap ta
ae epee GP GE a aE Ga aa =»

2. For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a) the term "foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;

(b) ‘the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the
_ Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;

(c) the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means expenditures for the
operation and maintenance of the Acquisitions Committee, the Administrative
- Coordination Group, the Informatics Commission and the Project Unit, including: (i)
office supplies; (ii) services rendered by public utilities; (iii) operation and maintenance
of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (iv) domestic and international
travels and per diems of their personnel, required for the execution of the Project; and

@&d the term "Training" means: (i) remuneration of trainers; (ii) domestic and
international travel and per diems of trainers and trainees; and (iii) training materials.

3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be
made in respect of:

(a) “payments made for expenditures prior to. the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000, may be made

 
-21-

in respect of Categories (1) through (4) of the table set forth in said paragraph 1 on
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after July 1, 1994;

(6) payments made with respect to the implementation of Part A of the
Project by an Executing Agency (other than those referred to in Section 6.01 (a) of this
Agreement), unless the Bank has received evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the
Participation Arrangement with the respective Executing Agency (other than those
referred to in Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement) has been entered into;

(c) payments made with respect to the implementation of Part B.2 (c) of the
Project by an Executing Agency, unless the Bank has received evidence, satisfactory to
the Bank, that the Restructuring Agreement with the respective Executing Agency has
been entered into; and — |

(d) payments made with respect to the implementation of Part B.1 of the
Project, unless the Bank has received evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the
Twinning Agreement has been executed by the parties thereto.

«4, The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: |

(a for goods under contracts not exceeding the equivalent of $50,000;

(b>) for the services of consulting firms under contracts not exceeding the
equivalent of $75,000; and

© for the services of individual consultants under contracts not exceeding |
the equivalent of $30,000;

under such ems and conitions asthe Bank shall specify by nice tothe Borrower.
-22-

SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project

The objectives of the Project are to: (a) impreve the frame- work, procedures and
systems for the Borrower’s public sector financial management and control; (b) lay the
strategic foundations and provide initial support for the restructuring of the Borrower’s
public sector, creating the basis for greater administrative effi- ciency and operational
effectiveness; and (c) provide efficiency, sustainability and transparency to the
Borrower’s public sector reforms efforts. .

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such |
objectives:

Part A: Public Financial Management and Control
1. Budget and Treasury System
Establishment of the Borrower’s new budget system, aimed at achieving better

macroeconomic, operational and financial management, through development and
installation of:

| (a) a medium-term budget system, enabling the projection of medium-term
income and expenditures and the linking of the budget process with medium-term
investments in the context of a multi-year budget;

| © an integrated budget structure for Public Sector Entities, featuring
quantified program objectives, financial projections of revenues and expenditures in a
cash budget, and limited used of earmarked funds;

(c) a system to manage and supervise budget execution, for the support of
program management and accountability, including the corresponding normative manuals ~
and accounting procedures that allow payments to be made through the banking system;

(d)  #abudget control and evaluation. system, covering all financial transactions
and investments of selected Public Sector Entities; and |

| ©) @ system to manage and supervise modernization funds to support
| investments in | social development.

 
-23-—

2. Public Credit System

Modernization of the Borrower’s public debt management, through introduction
of appropriate systems. |

3. Accounting and Treasury

Development and implementation of an accounting system as the basis for
_ effective control of the Borrower’s financial resources and timely auditing of related
transactions, including:

(a) __ installation of a budgetary accounting and reporting subsystem, with
decentralized operations;

(b) delimitation of functions and authority on accounting operations; and

(c) functional reorganization and professional strengthening of the units
responsible for accounting.

4. Audit of Public Resources

Improvement in the efficiency and eirectvencss of audits, as a service to the
management of Public Sector Entities.

5. Public Contracting

Preparation of a new Public Contracting Law and the corresponding rules and
procedures. |

6. Payroll and Personnel Systems

Modernization of the Borrower’ S Personnel management and salary payment
- functions, through: |

(a) introduction of efficient processes for personnel management;
(b) creation of technical procedures for the revision of salaries;
(c) | standardization of administrative functions;

(4) _ strengthening of administrative efficiency; and
~%-

| (ce) integration of payroll and personnel systems in the system financed under
Past A.7 @) of the seal

 

| @ Development and implementation of a modern informatics plan for the
Borrower’s integrated system of financial management, including the integration of the
systems financed under Parts A. 1, A.2, A.3, A.4 and A.6 of the Project. |

| (&) Installation of bridge systems for budget, treasury, accounting, audits and
payroll and personnel management functions.

Part B: Public Sector Modernization
1. Strengthening of the Planning Framework

Development of the Borrower’s medium-term planning system for a market
economy with reduced state intervention, that provides the basis for strategic management
of the Borrower’s developmental efforts, such system to include:

(a) an effective linkage between the budget process and macroeconomic
policy-making; | | |

(0) a strengthened decentralized planning network; and

(c) an effective subsystem for investment projects’ programming and
monitoring. | | |

 

@ Decentralization of the Borrower” $ public sector management, based upon
economic and administrative efficiency criteria, through:

@ development of a deconcentration strategy for centrally managed
activities;

(ii) development of a regionalization strategy, for the devolution or
| assignment of functional responsibility and authority to sectional
levels of the Borrower’ S administration;

 
as

(iii) | development of a participation strategy, for the strengthening of
_ democratic processes through broader citizen participation; and

(iv) preparation of the Borrower’s national decentralization plan.

(b) Carrying out and dissemination of a census 3 of the Borrower’s public
employees. | |

(c) Restructuring of selected Public Sector Entities, aimed at achieving
increased efficiency in the provision of public services.

(@) Evaluation of the progress and impact of the restructuring process
financed under Part B.2 (c) of the Project, through a computerized system.

3. Public Sect Traini

| (a) Establishment of procedures to streamline and support the coordination
of training offered by Public Sector Entities.

(b) Design and implementation of specific training programs required for the
implementation of other Parts of the Project.

PatC: Coordination of the Reform Program

| Development of a macroinstitutional policy reflecting a broad consensus on the
role of the state.

2, Decentraliza:ion Policy

| Development of a general decentralization policy that provides guidance for the
execution of Part B.2 @) of the Project.

3. | Di inati

Carrying out of dissemination programs on the progress and benefits of Project
- implementation.
Establishment and operation of an accounting and auditing plan.
5. Project Management
Operation of the Project implementation bodies referred to in Section 3.05 (a) of

sat

The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.

 
-27-

_ SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
| Do Payment of Principal
Date P tD | 1 in Dollars)*
August l, 2000 | 385,000
February 1, 2001 400,000
August 1, 2001 410,000
February 1, 2002 425,000
August 1, 2002 440,000
February 1, 2003 455,000
August 1, 2003 475,000
February 1, 2004 490,000
August 1, 2004 510,000
February 1, 2005. 525,000
August 1, 2005 345,000
February 1, 2006 565,000
August 1, 2006 ~ 385,000
February 1, 2007 605,000
August 1, 2007 625,000
February 1, 2008 650,000
August 1, 2008 670,000
February 1, 2009 695,000
August 1, 2009 720,000
February 1, 2010 ‘745,000
August 1, 2010 770,000
February 1, 2011 | 800,000
August 1, 2011 830,000
February 1, 2012 — 855,000
August 1, 2012 890,000
Feburary 1, 2013 920,000
August 1, 2013 950,000
Feburary 1, 2014 985,000
August 1, 2014 1,020,000
1,060,000

Feburary 1, 2015

* The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
- 28 -

Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on

the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below: —

The interest rate (expressed
as a percentage per annum) —

applicable to the Loan
on the day of prepayment
multiplied by: —
Not more than three years | 0. 15
| before maturity
More than three years but _ 0.30
| not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but | : 0.55 —
not more than 11 years: | |
before maturity :
More than 11 years but not 0.80
- more than 16 years | } |
before maturity
More than 16 years but not | , 0.90
more than 18 years |
before maturity
More than 18 years before 1,00

maturity
- 29 -

SCHEDULE 4—
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section]. Procurement of Goods
Pat A: _Limited International Biddi

1. Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts
awarded through limited international bidding procedures, on the basis of evaluation and
comparison of bids invited from a list of qualified suppliers with established servicing and —
maintenance capabilities in Ecuador eligible under the "Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), in
accordance with the procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding
paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof), and in accordance with the following |
additional procedures:

(a) When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period,
such period may be extended once, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract. The bid
validity period may be extended a second time only if the bidding documents or the
request for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid price to reflect
changes in the cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. Such an
increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation. With
respect to each contract made subject to the Bank’s prior review in accordance with the
provisions of Part C.1 (a) of this Section, the Bank’s prior approval will be required for:
(i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the period of extension exceeds sixty (60)
days; and (ii) any subsequent extension of the bid validity period.

(b) In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the Borrower
shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such
modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of ©
the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the
Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other internationally
recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.

2. Computer hardware and software (including installation, commissioning and
_maintenance services) shall be procured under bid packages awarded through a two-step
procedure, satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with paragraph 2.7 of the Guidelines.
- 30 -

Part B: Other Procurement Procedures

_ Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $750,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part C: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:

(a) With respect to each contract for goods under Part A hereof the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished
to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect
of such contract.

(ob) #£With respect to each contract not governed by t the preceding paragraph,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. |

(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to
contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of statements of

expenditure,

2. The figure of 10% is neseby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines.

Section I. Employment of Consultants

1. In order to assist the Borrower or the Executing Agencies in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory
‘to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of

 
-31-

Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-
based assignments, such consultants shall be employed under contracts using the standard
form of contract for consultants’ services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as
shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have —
been issued by the Bank, other standard forms agreed with the Bank shall be used.

2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall
not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost
$75,000 equivalent or less each; or (b) contracts for the employment of individuals
estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent or less each. However, this exception to prior Bank
review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source
selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of .a critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting
firms raising the contract value to more than $75,000 equivalent; or (e) amendments to
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to more
than $30, 000 equivalent. |

A. __In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set forth
in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern all procurement |
of goods referred to in Part A of Section I of this Schedule:

1. —_ Bids shall be submitted i in one single envelope, and the name of each bidder and
the total amount of each bid, as well as any alternative proposals, if they have been
requested or permitted, shall be read aloud when opened.

2. Foreign bidders shall not be required to have a local representative for purposes
of submitting bids. |

3. Foreign bidders shall be permitted to have their financial solvency certified by
a foreign bank acceptable to the procuring party without recertification by any Ecuadoran
_ bank or other Ecuadoran person or entity.

4. Bid and performance bonds and guarantees issued by foreign sureties approved _
by the procuring party shall be admissible without recertification or other participation
by any Ecuadoran bank or t other Ecuadoran person or entity. |
- -32-

5. Letters of credit issued to any supplier of goods or provider of services shall not
be required to be counter-guaranteed by such supplier or provider in whole or in part.

This shall not prevent the procuring party from obtaining other performance warranties
from such suppliers or providers.

BC. In addition to and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set
_ forth in this Schedule or the Consultants Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern
all employment of consultants referred to iia Section Il of this Schedule:

1. Foreign consultants shall not be required to be locally registered as a condition
of participation in the selection process. |

2. -- Foreign consultants shall not be required, either directly or indirectly, to give any
participation in or share of any consulting contracts to any local firm or person, except
in connection with a joint venture arrangement where:

(i) a sufficient mimber of capable domestic firms or + individual
| consultants exist to allow a foreign consultant reasonable
freedom of choice;

Wi the contribution of either party to the joint venture arrangement
will not be consirained by any prescribed § manner or extent of
participation; am\

— dii) the foreign consultant i is not required to associate itself with any
_ Specific named domestic firms or individual consultants.

3. _—s- Foreign consulting firms shall not be required, as a condition to provide services,
to be registered in Ecuador with.a minimum capital different from that required for
Ecuadoran firms.

4. _—s* Foreign consultants, either individuals or firms, shall not be required to pay fees
to the Ecuadoran Consultants’ Association that are different from those required for
Ecuadoran consultants.

5s. No consultant shall, at the time he or she is carrying out his or her contractual
obligations as consultant, hold civil service office or any other position in an agency of
the Borrower or any Ecuadoran public sector entity, nor shall such consultant have any
Tight to re-entry into any such office or position upon the conclusion of his or her
consulting services. |
- 33 -

Section TV. Internal Approvals

1. With respect to the procurement of goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, any approval of bidding documents and contracts required under the laws of
the Borrower shall be given only by the Acquisitions Committee.

2. _«~ With respect to the employment of consultants, any approval of contracts or of
consultant selection processes required under the laws of the Borrower, shall be given
only "y CONAM.
- 34-
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1. _ For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a) the term “Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, |

a (bo) ‘the term “Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the

reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of |
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

(c) ‘the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to
$600,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent
to $400,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
$2,000,000.

2. ‘Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. |

3. After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:

(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

(b) (i) | For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall
| | - furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special
Acccunt at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.

 
- 35 -

(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required

_ pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On

the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into —

the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and

other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for

Eligible Expenditures.

All such n deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under
the respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by said documents and other evidence.

4, For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
_ Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for

Eligible Expenditures.

5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

@ © if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all. further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a)
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or |

o) if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports.
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of
the records and accounts for the Special Account;

(c) iif, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention
_ to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or

 @ once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
- 36 -

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made —
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized

in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.

6. —@) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the

Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant

to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished tc the

Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such

additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or,

if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall

otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made

until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the

_ case may be.

(b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for Eligible
Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the
Bank such outstanding amount. |

| (c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

| —@ Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and ©. of
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.

 
INTERNATIONAL BANK :
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

CERTIFICATE

I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank —

for Reconstruction and Development.

2X),

~ FOR SECRETARY

 
