Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized |

 

 

WS

LOAN nmare 23!

Loan Agreement.

(Structural Adjustment Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated Deeenbow 9 , 1994

 

 
—
LOAN NUMBERS 5/5 wp

LOAN AGREEMENT

| AGREEMENT, dated Decen her F , 1994, between
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS: (A) the Bank has received a letter dated November 11,
1994, from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives
and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the
Borrower’s economy (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Bank in the financing of urgently
needed imports and services required during such execution; and

(B) on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has
decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the
Borrower by making the Loan in two tranches as hereinafter provided;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

(a) Section 2.01, paragraph li, shall be modified to read:

"?Project’ means the imports and other activities that
may be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to
the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement.";

(b) The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;

| (c) In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (1) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
the Bank’s Articles of Agreement"; and
-2-—

(d) Section 9.07 {c) shall be modified to read:

"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish
to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the program
referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan."

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional term has the following meaning, namely:
"SITC" meanc the Standard International Trade Ciassification,
Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in
Statistical Papers, Series M, No, (343 (1986).

ARTICLE II
The Loan |

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shali have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of sixty million dollars ($60,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement. :

| Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to.
time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
priivipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, pius one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period. |

(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

(c) For the purposes of this Section: |

(i) “Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
on the date immediately preceding each date
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
beginning with the Interest Period in which this |
Agreement is signed. : .

(ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
interest rates determined otherwise than as
provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

(iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.

(d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six |
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows: |

"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect

of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
-~ 4G =

(1/2 of 12). On each of the dates specified in Section
2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
applicable during such Interest Period.”

"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each
Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
Quarter." .

"(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
a calendar year.”

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year. |

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of |
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in.
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

| section 2.08. The Department of Foreign Economic Relations in

the Ministry of Economy is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted
to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement
and Article V of the General Conditions, and for the preparation of
withdrawal applications under the Loan and for the collection of the
documents and other evidence to be furnished to the Bank in support
of such applications; such withdrawal applications shall to the
extent practicable be consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of
aggregate amounts of not less than $1,000,000 equivalent.

ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in

Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

(b) Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the
-~5-

progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule
3 to this Agreement.

Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

(b) The Borrower shall:

(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable tc the Bank;

(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year, a certified copy of the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information

| concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.

(ec) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
| with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;

(ii) ‘retain, until at least one year after the Bank
has received the audit report for the fiscal year

in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,

 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents, or .
customs certificates, as appropriate) evidencing
such expenditures;

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
records; and

(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are
included in the annual audits referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension

Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.

ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
_ ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the | purposes of Section 11.03 of

the General Conditions.

Section 6. 02. The foliowing addresses are | specified for the.
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:

Ministry of Finance |
277005 Chisinau
Cosmonaut Street, 7
Republic of Moldova

Telex:
(3732) 228610
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development

Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address: | Telex:
INTBAFRAD | 248423 (RCA).

Washington, D.C. 82987 (FTCC)
| | 64145 (WUL) or
197688 (TRT)
- 8 -

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA

ay /¢/ Nikolas The

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia

By /S/ Wor fae Talo t
~ 9.

SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

l. Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required during the execution cf the Program and to be financed out
of such proceeds. | | :

2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

(a) expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to
the Borrower: | | : .

Group Subgroup — Description of Items
' 112 | -- Alcoholic beverages
121. | -- Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
_ refuse |
122 Oo ~< | Tobacco, manufactured (whether
or not containing tobacco
substitutes) |
525 | | -- - Radioactive and

associated materials

667 | == Pearls, precious and oo
semiprecious stones, unworked or
worked | |

718 718.10 Nuclear reactors, and

parts thereof, fuel elements
(cartridges), nonirradiated for
nuclear reactors |

728 oe 728.43 Tobacco processing machinery

 
-- 10 -

| Group ~ _ Subgroup Description of Items

— 897 897.3 Jewelry of gold, silver or

platinum group metals :
(except watches and watch cases)
and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
wares (including set gems)

971 = Gold, nonmonetary (excluding
, | | gold ores and concentrates)

(b) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower,
excluding, if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another
country, expenditures in such currency for goods or services
supplied from the territory of such other country;

| (c) payments made for goods imported prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $12 million may be made on account of
payments made for such goods imported before that date but after
August 15, 1994;

(d) expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $5,000 equivalent;

(e) expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency other
than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance; and

(2). expenditures. for goods intended for a military or
paramilitary purpose or for luxury consumption. .

3. Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the
procurement of goods estimated to rost less than $1,000,000 may be
required by the Bank upon the basis of statements of expenditure

under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify. |

4. No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered
into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan after
the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan
Account and the total amount of such commitments shali have reached
the equivalent of $30,000. »000, unless the Bank shall be satisfied,
after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of. this
-~1ll-

Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (a) with the
progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Program, and (b) that the actions described in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement have been taken. | |

5. If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 4
above, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that the
progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory and, within
90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved
progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, then the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the
Loan or any part thereof. |

 
Date Payment Due
September 1, 2000

determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal.

-12-—

SCHEDULE 2

Amortization Schedule

Payment of Principal

(expressed in dollars)*

General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

1,155,000
March 1, 2001 1,195,000
September 1, 2001 1,235,000
March 1, 2002 1,280,000
September 1, 2002 1,325,000
March 1, 2003 1,370,000
September 1, 2003 1,420,000
March 1, 2004 1,470,000
September 1, 2004 1,525,000
March 1, 2005 1,580,000
September 1, 2005 1,635,000
March 1, 2006 1,690,000
September 1, 2006 1,750,000
March 1, 2007 | 1,815,000
September 1, 2007 1,880,000
March 1, 2008 1,945,000
September 1, 2008 2,015,000
March 1, 2009 2,085,000 |
September 1, 2009 2,160,000
March 1, 2010 2,235,000
September 1, 2010 2,315,000
March 1, 2011 — 2,400,000
September 1, 2011 2,485,000
March 1, 2012 2,570,000.
September 1, 2012 2,665,000
March 1, 2013. 2,755,000
September 1, 2013 2,855,000
March 1, 2014 2,955,000
September 1, 2014 — 3,060,000
March 1, 2015 © 3,175,000
ee
* The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents

See
-~ 13 -

Premiums on Prepayment

Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable

time of prepayment below:

Time of Prep ayment

Not more than 3 years
before maturity

More than 3 years but
not more than 6 years
before maturity

More than 6 years but
| not more than 11 years
before maturity

More than 11 years but not
more than 16 years
before maturity

More than 16 years but not
more than 18 years
before maturity

More than 18 years before
maturity

Premium

The interest rate (expressed
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on the
day of prepayment multiplied
by:

0.55

0.80

0.90

1.00

 
- 14 -

SCHEDULE 3
Procurement

Section I. Procurement of Goods

 

1. Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $1,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), and in
accordance with the following additional procedures:

(a) Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:

"2.8 Notification and Advertising

The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder’s
invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper _
of general circulation in the Borrower’s country and, in
addition, in at least one of the following forms:

(i) a notice in the United Nations publication,
Development Forum, Business Edition; or

~—6(ii) an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
| technical journal of wide international
circulation; or |

(iii) a notice to local representatives of countries

7 and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
that are potential suppliers of the goods
required." |

(b) The following : is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:

"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
- |5 -

used in international trade and specified in the bidding
cocuments."

(c) Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.

(d) When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to and in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines, |
by the minimum amount of time required to complete the evaluation,
obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract.
The bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the
bidding documents or the request for extension shall provide for
appropriate adjustment of the bid price to reflect changes in the
cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. Such
an increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the
bid evaluation.

(e) In the procurement of goods in accordance with this
paragraph 1, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the
Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Bank.

2. Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $1,000,000 shall be awarded:

(a) by purchasers required to follow the Borrower’s public
procurement procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of
such procedures, provided that such procedures shall have been found
acceptable by the Bank; and |

| (b) by other purchasers, in accordance with established
commercial practice, provided that such contracts shall be awarded
on the basis of evaluation comparison of quotations obtained from
suppliers from at least two countries, except that direct
contracting procedures acceptable to the Bank may be used where
considered appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.

3. Subject to the prior approval of the Bank, commonly traded
commodities may be procured through organized international
commodity markets or other channels of competitive procurement

 
- 16 -

acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank. . |

4, With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids and recommendations for award, a description of the
advertising and tendering procedures followed and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. ©

5. With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2 and
3 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect thereof, such
documentation and information as the Bank may reasonably request to
support withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.

6. The provisions of the preceding paragraph 5 of this Schedule
shall not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from
the Loan Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure. |

Section IL. Employment of Consultants

In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Program,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultants Guidelines). For
complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract of
consultants’ services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as
shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall
use other standard forms agreed with the Bank. :
-17-

SCHEDULE 4

Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (b)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement

l. Achievement of satisfactory progress in implementing the 1995-
96 privatization program of the Borrower.

2. Initiation of the managerial, organizational and ownership
restructuring of at least 10 highly indebted state-owned
enterprises, including provisions for privatization of production
lines, sale of assets and other measures required to impose
financial discipline without injection of new capital from the
government budget. |

3. Introduction by the Moldovan National Bank of regulations on |
simple risk-weighted capital standards for commercial banks. a

4: Reinstatement by the Moldovan National Bank of the regulation
limiting loans to any shareholder of the bank who owns or controls
10 percent or more of the bank’s total shares to an amount not
exceeding 20 percent of the bank’s capital, with the exception of
five utility companies agreed with the Bank.

5. Submission to the Bank of satisfactory evidence that all
commercial banks have made provisions for possible loan losses on
loans extended after March 1, 1995 in accordance with the
requirements of the Moldovan National Bank.

6. Revision of the implementation plans for the reorganization
and privatization of two large agricultural parastatals, Cereale and
Fertilitatea, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, which plans
shall be designed to create competitive markets and include
provisions for: (i) early disposal of excess storage, transport and
milling capacity through sale or medium term lease arrangements;
(ii) transfer of the regulatory functions of Cereale and
Fertilitatea to the Ministry of Agriculture and other Ministries, as
appropriate; and (iii) de-monopolization of the traditional markets
of Cereale and Fertilitatea through such measures as introduction of
competitive procurement of the State grain reserve; compliance with
a timetable designed to achieve completion of restructuring and
privatization of Cereale and Fertilitatea by December 31, 1996.

7. Reduction of import tariffs, in accordance with a timetable
agreed with the Bank. |
- 18 -

8. Adoption and implementation of a system of pension and
benefits increases which will be de-linked from minimum wage and
pursuant to which all qualified beneficiaries will receive a flat
nominal increase based upon the price changes in the previous
quarter and the overall fiscal context. |

9. Submission to the Parliament of legislation on the phased
increase in the pension age which shall provide, inter alia, that
commencing in mid-1995, the pension age for men and women will be ~
extended in six-month increments in each calendar year until the
pension age reaches 65 for men and 60 for women.

10. Achievement of satisfactory progress with the sale of assets
of seven enterprises under liquidation agreed with the Bank.
INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

CERTIFICATE

I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true COpy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank

for Reconstruction and Development.

SV Che

=OR SECRETARY

 
