   

Public Disclosure Authorizec

Public Disclosure Authorized

 

LOAN NUMBER 3799-TH

LOAN AGREEMENT

(Second Gas Transmission Project)

between

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
"AND DEVELOPMENT |

and

PETROLEUM AUTHORITY OF THAILAND

Dated September 27, 1994

 
LOAN NUMBER 3799-TH

LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT, dated september 27, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and PETROLEUM AUTHORITY
OF THAILAND (the Borrower).

WHEREAS: (A) Kingdom of Thailand (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; _

(B) the Borrower has contracted from the Asian Development
Bank (ADB) a loan (the ADB Loan) in an aggregate amount equivalent
to one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000) to assist in financing
Part A.1 of the Project on terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement entered into between ADB and the Borrower (the ADB Loan
Agreement) on April 8, 1994;

(C) the Borrower intends to contract from the Japan Export
Import Bank (JEXIM) a loan (the JEXIM Loan) in an aggregate amount
equivalent to one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000) to assist
in financing Part A.1 of the Project on terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement to be entered into between JEXIM and the
Borrower (the JEXIM Loan Agreement) ;

(D) the Borrower has contracted from the European Investment —
Bank (EZB) a loan (the EIB Loan) in an aggregate amount equivalent
to forty million ECU (ECU 40,000,000), to assist in financing Part
A.3 of the Project on terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
entered into between EIB and the Borrower (the EIB Loan Agreement }
on February 14, 1994;

({E) by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date

herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed

_ to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of the Loan;
and : a

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

3 : . var? ‘ . Fr, fr : . : . .

“oF . : . . : / WO if : : . * . ae
. . . : . : ss : 7 : . : . . : : . ‘ . . . . . . a, cons
. -* - - i » : - ‘ . . - - “ - Q . i . * . . . oy - . “ . “y e

is 3 . . +35 a. . . tet - oot & : aS. a . - . : wots 5 22 . f Sys . Ls . ia
Nevin AaP ts a Rag NC A tt ae i acre Bie EY mate ee ie nie Se Hite ae see wnat Ba 2 a eae marist ha opments re Sere wi ee i ah A eo en Be ee ie ee wee a ibe F : Maes ae ee wat n eo acallh

   
- 2-

ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions —

| Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements” of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

(a) The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

(b) In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-
paragraph (1) and a new sub<paragraph (k) is added to read:

"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section
3 of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings: | |

(a) "PTT Act" means the Petroleum Authority of Thailand Act,
=&B. E. 2521 (1978), as amended from time to time; |

| (b) "Bongkot Gas Sales Agreement” means the agreement, dated
March 16, 1990, entered into by and among the Eorrower, on the one
part, and PTT Exploration and Production Company Limited, Total
Exploration and Production Thailand, British Gas Thailand and Statoil
(Thailand) Limited (collectively the *Bongkot Concessionaires"), on
the other part, and pursuant to which the Borrower undertakes to
purchase gas from the Bongkot Concessionaires in accordance with the
terms and conditions stipulated therein; |

| ( c) “Unocal Gas Sale Agreement I" means the agreement dated
September 28, 1978, entered into by and among the Borrower, on the
one part, and Union Oil Company of Thailand (Unocai), and South East.
Asia Petroleum Exploration Company Ltd., (SEAPEC), collectively the
"Unocal I Concessionaires", on the other part, and pursuant to which
the Borrower undertakes to purchase gas from the Concessionaires,
from the Erawan gas fields, in accordance with the terms and
| condit/ons stipulated therein; | |

 
—-3-

(CQ) "Unocal Gas Sale Agreement II" means the agreement dated
May 17, 1982, entered into between the Borrower, on the one part, and
Union Oil Company of Thailand (UNOCAL), Mitsui Oil Corporation
(MCECO) and SEAPEC, collectively, the "Unocal II Concessionaires” und
pursuant to which the Borrower undertakes to purchase gas from the
Unocal II Concessionaires, from the Baanpot, Satun, Platong, Kaphong
and Pladang gas fields,in accordance with the terms and conditions
stipulated therein and as amended on October 24, 1983, April 30,
1987, November 22, 1988, September 6, 1989 and January 26, 1990;

(e) "Contract Extension Area" or "UNOCAL III" means the fifth
amendment to UNOCAL Gas Sale Agreement II, dated October 17, 1989,
entered into between the Borrower and the Unocal II Concessionaires, os
and pursuant to which the Borrower undertakes to purchase gas from |
the Unocal II Concessionaires, from the Gomin, Jakrawan, Funan,
frat, Surat and Dara gas fields, in accordance with the terms and
conditions stipulated therein;

(£) “Gas Sales~-Purchase Agreement" means the agreement, dated
December 12, 1991, entered into between the Borrower and the Electri-
city Generating Authority of Thailand ("EGAT") pursuant to which the
Borrower undertakes to sell to EGAT gas purchased from the Bongkot
Concessionaires and the Unocal Concessionaires in accordance with the |
terms and conditions stipulated therein;

(h) ‘Environ ental Assessment Report" means the report dated |
February 1994, provided by the Borrower to the Bank and approved by
‘the latter containing, inter alia, an action plan (the "Action Plan")
to mitigate the Project ‘sg adverse environmental impact; |

(i) "DMR" means Department ef Mineral Resources, an adminis-
trative unit under the supervision of the Guarantor’ 8 Ministry of
Industry; |

() "Principles for Payment of Compensation and Resettlement”
means the framework prepared by the Borrower for carrying out the
resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected Persons to be relocated
under Part A.3 of the Project.

(k) "affected Person" and "Affected Persons" mean indivi-
dually the person or entity and collectively the persons or entities,
regardless of their land-holding status whose property, business,
occupation or work is acquired or temporarily interrupted or whose ©
preperty is otherwise possessed or intended to be possessed and who, |
as a result thereof, has been or would be relocated or dispossessed >

- we cose : . Wa! . woos eye i . y . . te : : . : + on . ay . . * tr - ‘ - : . . mos : : , . “* 4
- BOO . yo cant af Mr gee Frets a re . . poet : 4 ste . ta : . . Dogs ake a re . oo a . watt trey ts . o sy wet
ear Reha Ls 1th nmi tie. Bet DTD Den cettiee te. Bat cel a ae a eet ie. is it aN ee ALG) aN lt et i ate ee ik i ke ln ee kid nea idea ln ale atti tellin patie SS aint 2 er AMR ee ns et Mn es Ae) i Ta oa i ee ani ge Bn ty ead celtl

     
-~4-

from his/their habitat or land or other built-up structure or pre-
cluded from carrying out his/their business, occupation or work on
account of the execution of Part A.3 of the Project.

(1) “fiscal year" and "FY" mean the Borrower’ s fiscal year
commencing October 1 and ending September 30.

‘ARTICLE II
The Loan

| Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms aii; conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to |
the amount of one hundred fifty five million dollars ($155,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

_ Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to thig
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment |
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent. (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time. : .

: Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified
| Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-
half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding
Interest Period: calculated at the rate applicable during such
Interest Period. | | |

 
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, —
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester. |

(c) For the purposes of this Section:

(i) "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
on the date immediately preceding each date speci-
fied in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, beginning
with the Interest Period in which this Agreement
is signed.

(ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as
a percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrow-
ings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982,
excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as
the Bank has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank’s
investments; and (B) loans which may be made by
the Bank after July 1, 1989, bearing interest
rates determined otherwise than as provided in
paragraph (a) of this Section.

(iii)  “Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.

(a) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows: _

" (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest |
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
applicable during such Interest Period." |

"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each

Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the

Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
in respect of such Quarter.” |

» ys : : ° 4 Le . te . ‘ . : net ° ton . - ‘ -7 . : . : 2: a
iat ea OAL E n  e ce Rt  ak homeaa tealdde  B he ae od sen i te ai a . ers) we a fo i cent eo eh Be a ae Sil ey dante ebie ea S e ak  e ces BR a oe Ne ee le ate a BRR Ben a wcetthe la ae RR Sate anh

   
"(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period |
commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
a calendar year."

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.

Section 2.07. The Borrower shail repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project.

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate adminis—-
trative, financial, public utility, resettlement and environmental
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources required for the Project. — |

. (b) Without Limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
‘wise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement e | |

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of works and consultants’ services required for the —
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, during Project implementa-
tion, take the necessary measures to relocate Affected Persons under
the Project, in accordance with the Principles for Payment cof Compen-
sation and Resettlement. |

Section 3. O4. The Borrower | shall:

(a) exchange views with the Bank in ceupect. of proposed
amendments to the Bongkot Gas Sale Agreement , the Unocal Gas Sale

 
Agreement I, the Unocal Gas Sale Agreement II, Unocal III, or the Gas
Sale-Purchase Agreement, pertaining to: | |

(i) quantities of gas purchased or sold to the Borrower;
(ii) price of gas sold to or purchased by’ the Borrower; and
(iii) the duration of such Agreements; and

(b) promptly thereafter, take into account the Bank’s views
prior to effecting said amendments. |

- Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures
required on its part to ensure implementation of the Action Plan
contained in the Environmental Assessment Report, in a manner satis-
factory to the Bank.

ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower

Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and >
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, finan-
cial and public utility practices under the supervision of qualified
- and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers. :

Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and main-
tain its plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and from
time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial
and public utility practices.

Section 4.03 . The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.

 
ARTICLE V
Financial and Other Covenants

Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.

(b) ‘The Borrower shall:

(i) have its records, accounts and financial state-

| ments (balance sheets, statements of income and

expenses and related statements) for each fiscal

year audited, in accordance with apprcpriate

auditing principles consistently applied, by an
independent auditor acceptable to the Bank;

(ii) furnish to ths Bank as soon as available, but in
- any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year:

(A) certified copies of its financial statements
for such year as so audited; and

(B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shail have reasonably requested; and

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information con-
- eerning said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof as the

Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expen-
diture, the Borrower shall:

(i) maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, records and accounts vet iecting such
expenditures;

(ii) retain, until at leact one year after the Bank has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,

 
=-9-

bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
records; and

(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the proce-
dures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.

Section 5.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall produce for each of ite fiscal years after its fiscal
year ending on September 30, 1994, funds from internal sources equi-
valent to not less than 25% of the annual average of the Borrower’s
capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, for that
fiscal year, the previous | fiscal year and the one next following fiscal
year.

(b) Before June 30 in each of its fiscal years, the Borrower |
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satis-
factory to the Bank, review whether it would meet the requirements set
forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next following
fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank a copy of such review ‘upon
its completion.

(c) If any such review shows that the Borrower would not meet
the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower’s fiscal
years covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly take all
necessary measures in order to meet such requirements. | |

(a) For the purposes of this Section:

(i) The term "funds from internal sources" means the |
| ‘difference between: :

(A) the. sum of revenues from all sources related |
to operations, consumer deposits and con-
sumer contributions in aid of construction, |

 
(id)

(iii)

(iv)

—(v)-

- 10 -

net non~operating income and any reduction in
working capital other than cash; and

{B) the sum of all expenses related to opera-

| tions, including administration, adequate

maintenance and taxes and payments in lieu of

taxes (excluding provision for depreciation

and other non-cash operating charges), debt

service requirements, all cash dividends and

other cash distributions of surplus, increase

in working capital other than cash and other

cash outflows other than capital expendi-
tures. |

The term “net non-operati ing: income* means the
difference between:

(A) revenues from all sources other than those
related to operations; | and

(EB) experses, including taxes and payments in
lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation of
revenues in (A) above.

The term “working capital other than cash” means the
difference between current assets excluding cash and

current liabilities at the end of each fiscal year.

The term “current assets excluding cash" means all
assets other than cash which could in the ordinary

_ course Of business be converted into cash within

twelve months, including accounts receivable,
marketable securities, inventories and pre-paid
expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses
within the next fiscal year.

The term “current liabilities® means all liabilities |
which will become due and payable or could under |

circumstances then existing be called for payment

within twelve months, including accounts payable,
customer advances, debt service requirements, taxes
and payments in lieu of taxes, and dividend;,.
(vi)

(vii)

(viii)

-ij1-

The term "debt service requirements” means the
aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking |
fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
charges on, debt.

The term “capital expenditures* means all expen-
ditures on account of fixed assets, including

interest charged to construction, related to

operations.

Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
the Guarantor, debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a
rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank. |

Section 5.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not incur any debt unless a reasonabie forecast of the
revenues and expenditures of the Borrower shows that the estimated net |
revenues of the Borrower for each fiscal year during the term of the
debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.3 times the estimated debt |
service requirements of the Borrower in such year on all debt of the
Borrower including the debt to be incurred.

| (b) | For the purposes of this Section:

(i)

(44)

The term “debt” means any indebtedness of the
Borrower maturing by its terms more than one year
after the date on which it is originally incurred.

Debt shall be deemed to be incurred:

(A) under a loan contract or agreement or other
instrument providing for such debt or for the
modification of its terms of payment on the
date of such contract, agreement or instru-
ment; and

(B) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the
| agreement providing for such guarantee has
been entered into. |

 
(iii)

(iv)

(v)

(vi)

(vii)

- 12 —-

The term “net revenues" means the difference
between: So

(A) the sum of revenues from all sources related
to operations and net non-operating income;
and : |

(B) the sum of all expenses related to operations
including administration, adequate mainte-
nance, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes,
but excluding provision for depreciation,
other non-cash operating charges and interest
and other charges on debt.

The term “net non-operating income" means the

@ifference between:

(A) revenues from all sources other than those
related to operations; and

(B) expenses, including taxes and payments in
lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation of
revenues in (A) above.

The term “debt service requirements” means the
aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
charges on, debt.

The term "reasonable forecast” means a forecast

prepared by the Borrower not earlier than twelve
months prior to the incurrence of the debt in
question, which both the Bank and the Borrower

- accept as reasonable and as to which the Bank has

notified the Borrower of its acceptability, pro-
vided that no event has occurred since such noti-
fication which has, or may reasonably be expected
in the future to have, a material adverse effect on
the financial condition or future operating results
of the Borrower. |

Whenever for the outpones of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
the Guarantor, debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the

 
- 13 -

prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation, |
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a
rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.

Section 5.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not incur any debt, if after the incurrence of such debt
the ratio of debt to equity shall be greater than seventy (70) to

thirty (30).

(b) For purposes of this Section:

(i)

(ii)

(iii)

(iv)

The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the

Borrower maturing by its terms more than one year
after the date on which it is originally incurred.

Debt shall be deemed to be incurred:

(A) under a loan contract or agreement or other
instrument providing for such debt or for the
modification of its terms of payment, on the
date, and to the extent, the amount of such >
debt has become outstanding pursuant to such
contract, agreement or instrument; and

(B) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the

agreement providing for such guarantee has
been entered into but only to the extent that
the guaranteed debt is outstanding.

The term "equity" means the sum of the total

unimpaired paid-up capital, retained earnings and

reserves of the Borrower not allocated to cover
specific liabilities.

Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
the Guarantor, debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such |
other currency is, at the time of such valuation, |
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt, |

or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a

rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.

 
Section 5. OS Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall: 7

(ays bby December 31 of each of its fiscal years commencing in
1994 until the completion of the Project, review with the Bank, the
Borrower‘s long-term investment plan for the next four fiscal years;
and a . |

(b) based on the said reviews, and taking into account the
comments and recommendations made by the Bank, take appropriate
measures necessary for the implementation of the investment program
for the upcoming fiscal year.

Section 5.06 The provisions of Sections 5.04, 5.05, and 5.06 of
the Loan Agreement (Bongkot Gas Transmission Project) dated July 8,
1992 entered into between the Bank and PTT (Loan 3508-TH), are hereby
- superseded by the provisions of Sections 5.02, 5.03 and 5.04,
respectively. |

ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank

Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

(a) ‘The PTT Act shall have been suspended, terminated, repealed
or materially amended, so as to adversely affect the ability of the
Borrower or the Guarantor to carry out their respective obligations
under the Loan Agreement or the Guarantee Agreement.

(b) The Bongkot Cas Sales Agreement, the Unocal Gas Sale
Agreement I, the Unocal Gas Sale Agreement II, Unocal III, or the Gas
Sale-Purchase Agreement, have been suspended, terminated or materially
amended, so as.to adversely affect the ability of the Borrower to carry
out its obligations under this Agreement. |

(c) The ADB Loan Agreement, the JEXIM Loan Agreement or the
EIB Loan Agreement shall have failed to become effective by January
31, 1995, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however,
that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for
the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
~ 15 —

and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement; and |

(da) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
| proceeds of any loan made to the Borrower for
the financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the ADB
Loan Agreement, the JEXIM Loan Agreement or

the EIB Loan Agreement; or

(B) any such loan shall have become due and pay-
able prior to the agreed maturity thereof.

(ii ) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Sank that:

(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obliga-
tions under such agreement; and

(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obliga-
tions of the Borrower under this Agreement.

Section 6.02. Pursuant ‘to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

(a) any of ‘the events specified in paragraphs (a), (b) or (c)
of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and

(b) the event specified in paragraph (ad) (i) (B) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the provision of
paragraph (qd) (ii) of that Section. . |

 
- 16 -

ARTICLE VII.

Effective Date; Termination

Section 7.01. The following event is specified as additional

condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely that the Bank
shall have received a satisfactory certification of the latest gas
reserve level of the Bongket field.

Section 7.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions. |

ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 8.01. The Governor of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.

Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Banks

International Bank for |
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W. |
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address: ‘Telex:
INTBAFRAD | a 248423 (RCA),

Washington, D.C. | 82987 (FTCC),
| | 64145 (WUL) or
197688 (TRT)

an
NT
-17-

For the Borrower:

Petroleum Authority of Thailand
555 Vibhavadi Rangsit Road
Bangkok 10900

Thailand
Facsimile: | | Telex:
537-3498-9 87940 PTT TH
537-2791 (FINANCE) _ 20369 PTT TH

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.

_ INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

19 bath Le Merron

Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific

PETROLEUM AUTHORITY OF THAILAND

“Authorized Representative

 
-18-

‘SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed |
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the —
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so.

to be financed in each Category:

Amount of the

Loan Allocated — & of
| (Expressed in Expenditures
Category | Dollar Equivalent) to_be Financed
1. Civil Works — 108,000,000 100% of foreign
| expenditures
| 2. Engineering and 30,000,000 100%
Project Supervi- oo
gion Consultants’
Services
3. Study under Part EB 2,500,000 100%
of the Project and |
training
4. Unallocated - 14,506,000
TOTAL --—--'755.000,000

2. For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a) the term "foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or
sérvices supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Guarantor; and _ | | |

(b) the term “local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Guarantor. | :

3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with- |
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not to exceed $15,000,000, may be made in respect of
Categories (1), (2) and (3) on account of payments made for expendi-.
tures before that date but after September 1, 1993. | >

 
~- 19 —-

SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project

The objectives of the Project are to assist the Guarantor and
the Borrower to achieve greater efficiency in the operation of the
energy gas sector and increase the utilization of domestic natural
gas resources through: | |

(a) the expansion of the Borrower’s gas transmission system; and

(b) the strengthening of the Borrower's institutional, commer-
cial and financial capabilities.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from
time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A: Pipeline Construction
1. (a) Provision of pipeline materials; and
(b) Carrying out pipeline coating works.

2. Construction of a 36-inch diameter, 425 km long submarine pipe-
line from an existing platform at the Erawan field to the onshore
receiving facilities at Rayong.

3. Construction of a 28-inch diameter, 110 km long underground |
pipeline from the Rayong facilities to the Block valve No. 6, located —
in the proximity of BGAT . Ss power plant at Bang Pakong.-

4. Relocation of Affected Persons from the land acquired by the
Borrower for the construction of the onshore pipeline and related
facilities. :

Part B: Facilities

1. Modification and expansion of the existing supervisory control
and data acquisition system and the pipeline telecommunications
network. ——

2. Construction of facilities, including scraper launchers and
receivers, slug catchers, pressure and flow controls, pipe manifolding,
tie-ins and offshore compression station, at: |

| (a) Erawan riser platform, compression and central processing
| platforms; | | |

 
- 20 -

{b) Rayong receiving terminal; and
-(c) Block Valve No. 6.

Part C: Engineering and Project Supervision

Provision of services for the carrying out of basic design
detailed engineering preparation of bid documents, procurement of goods

and works, supervision of the construction and commissioning of facili-
ties pertaining to the facilities described under Part B above.

Part D: Managerial Gapabilit ies

1. Provision of training for the staff of the Borrower in, inter
alia, the following areas: project analysis including pricing,
investment programming, corporate policy and planning, corporate
finance and financial systems. . |

2. Carrying. out of an assessment of the Borrower's planning and
financial systems, and preparation of an action plan to improve said
systems.

Part _E: 9 ate Restructuring and_ itu 5 ,

i. Carrying out of a study for the future corporate restructuring
and institutional strengthening of the Borrower and preparation of an
action plan therefor.

2. Carrying out of other studies in the petroleum sector in accord-
- ance with terms of reference to be agreed between the Borrower and the
Bank.
Part F: Safety Standards and Env: nmental R °

Provision of training for the Borrower’ s environmental and safety

staff to implement and enforce compliance with the recommendations of
the Study on safety engineering and environmental standards.

“The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.
Date Payment Due

February 15, 1999

- 21 -

- SCHEDULE 3

Amortizatiecn Schedule

Payment of Principal
(expressed _in dollars)*

3,680,000
August 15, 1999 3,815,000
February 15, 2000 3,955,000
August 15, 2000 4,100,000
February 15, 2001 4,245,000
August 15, 2001 . 4,400,000
February 15, 2002 4,560,000
August 15, 2002 4,725,000
February 15, 2003 4,900,000
August 15, 2003 5,075,000
February 15, 2004 5,260,000
August 15, 2004 5,455,000
February 15, 2005 5,650,000
August 15, 2005 5,855,000
February i5, 2006 6,070,000
August 15, 2006 6,290,000
February 15, 2007 6,520,000
August 15, 2007 6,755,000
February 15, 2008 7,000,000
August 15, 2008 7,255,000
February 15, 2009 7,520,000
August 15, 2009 7,795,000
February 15, 2010 8,075,000
August 15, 2010 8,370,000
February 15, 2011 8,675,000
August 15, 2011 9,000,000
* The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents deter-

mined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General
Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03. :

 
-~- 22 —

Premiums on Prepayment

Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the 2 applicable time

of prepayment below:

Time of Prepayment

Not more than three years
before maturity

More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity

More than six years but
not more than 11 years
before maturity

More than 11 years but not
more than 15 years
before maturity

More than 15 years before
maturity

Premium

The interest rate (expressed as ia
percentage per annum) applicable to
the Loan on the dzy of prepayment
multiplied by: 7 |

0.18

0.35
0.65
0.88

1.00

 
~ 23 -

SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I. Procurement of Works

Part A: | International Competitive Biddin
1. § Works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance

with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits”
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).

2. In the procurement of works in accordance with this Part A, the
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed
to be necessary for the purpose of the Project. Where no relevant
standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower
shall use bidding documents based on other internationally recognized
standard forms agreed with the Bank. |

Part I : Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

(a) With respect to each contract for the provision of works,
estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply.

| (b) With respect to each contract not governed by the preced-
ing paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

2. The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section If. Employment of Con caltants

1. In order to assist the Borrower in 1 strengthening its managerial
and institutional capabilities referred to under Parts C, D, E and F
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on
the, basis of the “Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
_ Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency” published by the

 
- 24 -

Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time~
based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under
contracts using the standard form of contzact for consuitants’ services
issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed
by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed
with the Bank. | |

2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review
or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not
apply to: |

(a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or

() contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to >
cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to
prior Bank review shall not apply to: | |

(i) the terms cf reference for such contracts;

(ii) single-source selection of consulting firms;

(iii) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Bank;

(iv) amendments to contracts for the | employment of
: consulting firms raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above; or :

(v) amendments to contracts for the employment of
| individual consuitants raising the contract value
to $50,000 equivalent or above.

 
- 25 ~

SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:

1. (a) not later than July 31, 1995 furnish to the Bank for its
review and comments the findings and recommendations of the Corporate
Restructuring and Institutional Strengthening Study referred to under
Part E of the Project; |

(b) not later than September 30, 1995 exchange views with the
Bank with ‘respect to recommendations of said study; and

(c) promptly thereafter, on the basis of ‘said exchange of
views, take all measures required on its part, to ensure implementation
of the study’s recommendations, taking into consideration the Bank’s
comments thereon.

2. For the purposes of Part F of the Project take ali necessary
measures required on its part and to ensure implementation of:

(a) the Action Plan and the associated monitoring activities
contained in the Environmental Assessment Report; and

(b) the recommendations of the study on safety engineering and
environmental standards for PTT’s gas transmission operations;

3. Not later than March 31, 1995, employ consultants, in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 4 of this Agreement, to
carry out the training programs referred to under Parts D and F of the
Project.

4. Commencing on November 1, 1994, and for each of its fiscal years
thereafter, until the completion of the Project, prepare and submit
to the Bank for its review and comments, quarterly progress reports
on Proj ect implementation.

5. Not later than December 31, 1994 submit to the Bank copies of
the executed Bongkot Gas Sales Agreement, Unocal Gas Sale Agreement
I, Unocal Gas Sale Agreement II, Unocal III and the Gas~Sale Purchase
Agreement, as amended, to ensure the sale and purchase of new gas
reserves, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.

6. $$ Not later than December 1, 1994, employ consultants to prepare
the study referred to under Part E of the Project, in accordance with
the provisions of Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

 

  
| INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

CERTIFICATE

I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank

for Reconsiruction and Development.

QV LB,

~~ FOR SECRETARY

 
