Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

 

LOAN NUMBER 3804 POL

Loan Agreement
(Debt and Debt Service Reduction Loan)

between |
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated Qctoher LE , 1994

 
LOAN NUMBER 3804 POL
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT, dated Oc7e ber AS, 1994, between the REPUBLIC
OF POLAND (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS (A) the international banking community has responded
favorably to the Borrower’s request, dated May 23, 1994 and
denominated "1994 Financing Proposals" (the 1994 Financing Plan)
for participation in a debt and debt service reduction program of
the Borrower;

(B) the Borrower has requested the assistance of the Bank in
financing of a portion of the cost, under the above debt and debt
service reduction program, of the Purchase (as hereinafter defined)
of the Eligible Debt (as hereinafter defined) and associated
interest; |

(C) the Borrower has also requested the assistance of the
International Monetary Fund for financing a portion of the cost of
the debt and debt service reduction program; and

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

“NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement (the General
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

(a) "Closing Agent" means the closing agent or similar agent
appointed by the Borrower for the purposes of concluding the Debt.
Purchase Agreements (as hereinafter defined);
 

-2-

(b) "Debt Purchase Agreements" mean final legal
documentation evidencing the acceptance by the Borrower of the
tenders received in response to the Debt Purchase Offer (as
hereinafter defined); ,

(c) "Debt Purchase Offer" means the debt purchase offer made
by the Borrower under the agreements entered into pursuant to the
1994 Financing Plan; .

(d) "Eligible Debt" has the same meaning ascribed thereto
in the 1994 Financing Plan;

(e)  $$"Fiscal Year" means the Fiscal year of the Borrower,
which begins on January 1 and ends on December 31 of each year;

(f£) "Implementation Agreement" means ‘the agreement entered
into or to be entered into between the Borrower and the Bank,
relating to the use of Set-aside Funds (as hereinafter defined);

(pg) "Participating Lenders" mean the commercial banks and
other financial institutions with Eligible Debt that have executed
the Debt Purchase Agreements;

(h) "Purchase" means the aggregate of cash payments made by
the Borrower to Participating Lenders under the Debt Purchase
Agreements and to be partially financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan; and "Specific Purchase" means the specific portions of the
Purchase to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan under
Category (1) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and

(i) "Set- aside Funds" mean the funds allocated under any
other loan made by the Bank to the Borrower for the purposes of
financing the carrying out of the 1994 Financing Plan.

ARTICLE II

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount oof one hundred and seventy million dollars
($170,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the

 
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.

Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the

Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this

Agreement for expenditures made in respect of the reasonable cost of

Part A of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. |

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date. _

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding —
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

(ec) For the purposes of this Section:

(i) "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
on the date immediately preceding each date
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
beginning with the Interest Period in which this
Agreement is signed. . |

(ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
| reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
 

-4-

thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
interest rates determined otherwise than as
provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

(iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.

(d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

“(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withd:<wn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
at the .ces applicable during such Interest Period."

"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each
Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

"(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
commencing on January 1 April l, July 1 or October 1 in a
calendar year."

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to Enis Agreement. :

Section 2.08. (a) The Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
require the Borrower to repay, in advance of maturity, such portion
of the principal amount of the Loan then outstanding as specified
below together with all accrued interest and other charges thereon,
if the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount of the
Loan has not been used for the purpose of the Project as set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. In this case the amount of the

 
-5-

Loan subject to prepayment shall be such amount as shall have been
so determined.

(b) The Borrower shall inform the Bank of the occurrence of
the event listed in paragraph (a) of this Section within five (5)
working days of the occurrence thereof.

(c) The Bank hereby waives the payment of any premium |
payable under Schedule 3 to this Agreement on prepayment of any
portion of the Loan. pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section.

(d) Prepayment of all or any portion of the Loan in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section shall be made on a
date and in the currency specified by the Bank and the amount so
prepaid shall be deleted from the Central Disbursement Account on
such date. |

Section 2.09. The Borrower’s officers appointed by the
representative of the Borrower stipulated in Section 7.01 of this
Agreement are hereby designated as representatives of the Borrower
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be
taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions including, without limitation,
preparing withdrawal applications under the Loan and collecting the
documents and other evidence to be furnished to the Bank in support
of such applications.

ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the payments made in
respect of the Project and financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

(b) The Borrower shall:

(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
_ paragraph (a) of this Section for each Fiscal
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
 

(ii).

(iii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year, a certified copy of the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and

furnish to the Bank such other information con-

cerning said records and accounts and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.

(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

(i)

(ii)

(iii)

(iv)

maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;

retain, until at least one year after the Bank
has received the audit report for the fiscal year
in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
Account was made, all records (certificates,
contracts, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;

enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
records; and |

ensure that such records and accounts” are

included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said

auditors as to whether the statements of

expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

 
-7-

ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall, from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the 1994
Financing Plan. |

(b) Prior to each such exchange of views in respect of the
1994 Financing Plan, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for its
review and comment a report on the 1994 Financing Plan in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request. , :

ARTICLE V
| Remedies of the Bank

| Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable, in the
opinion of the Bank, that the 1994 Financing Plan, or any
significant part thereof, will be carried out.

ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination |

| Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

(a) that the Borrower has confirmed, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, the availability of adequate resources to
implement the 1994 Financing Plan;

(b) that the Implementation Agreement has become effective,
in accordance with its terms; and |

(c) that the Borrower has entered, pursuant to the 1994
Financing Plan, into Debt Purchase Agreements with Participating
Lenders for the Purchase of Eligible Debt and associated interest
of an amount equivalent to approximately $1,324,551,405.96, and for
the exchange of Eligible Debt (i) for Par Bonds due October 27, 2024
of an amount equivalent to approximately $929,945,000; (ii) for
Discount Bonds due October 27, 2024 of an amount equivalent to >
 

approximately $2,970,214,000; (iii) for RSTA Bonds due October 27,
2024 of an amount equivalent to approximately $899,841,000; (iv) for
PDI Bonds due October 27, 2014 of an amount equivalent to
approximately $2,651,237,000; (v) for Debt Conversion Bonds due
October 27, 2019 of an amount equivalent to approximately
$393,017,000; and (vi) for New Money Bonds due October 27, 2009 of
an amount equivalent to approximately $137,556,000. |

Section 6.02. The date sixty (60) days from the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions. :

ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. | |

Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: |

For the Borrower:

Ministry of Finance
ul. Swietokrzyska 12
Warsaw, Poland

Telex:

825592 (MINFIN PL)
814386 (MINFIN PL)

For the Bank:

International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable Address: | | Teiex: |
INTBAFRAD 497688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C. 248423 (RCA),

| | 64145 (WUL) or
82987 (FTCC)

 
- 9 -

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

REPUBLIC OF POLAND

/s/ SJe,cek Tomorowi'cet

By |
Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

oe Regional Vice President

Europe and Central Asia

 
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
ol. The table below sets forth the Category of expenditures made
by the Borrower in respect of the Specific Purchases to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan and the percentage of expenditures

for items so to be financed in such Category:

Amount of the

Loan Allocated h of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category | Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) Specific ~ 170,000,000 ---: 100% of foreign
Purchases | expenditures
TOTAL 170,000, 000
2. For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign

expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than that of the Borrower for the Specific Purchases.

3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no.
withdrawals shall be made (a) in respect of the Specific Purchases
unless the Bank shall have approved the procedures for such
withdrawals; (b) in respect of any Specific Purchase, unless the
Borrower has furnished to the Bank a certificate in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank showing that the corresponding
agreement(s) referred to in Part A of the Project, providing for the
Specific Purchase, remain in full force and effect; and (c) except.
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Set-Aside Funds are being
disbursed concurrently with the proceeds of the Loan.
- ll -

SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project

The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower’s 1994 |
Financing Plan.

The Project consists of the following parts which are subject

to such modifications thereto as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
- upon from time to time to achieve such objective.

Part A:
Purchase of Eligible Debt and associated interest by the
Borrower under the agreement(s) entered into pursuant to the 1994

Financing Plan.

Part B:

Provision of Collateral for the purpose of securing the
payment of principal on certain of the debt instruments to be issued
pursuant to the 1994 Financing Plan. .

 
- 12 -

SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule

| Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due {expressed in dollars)*

On each January 15 and July 15

beginning July 15, 2000 |
through July 15, 2011 7,085,000

And on January 15, 2012 | | — 7,045,000

Ny

The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
- 13 -

Premiums on Prepayment

Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

Time of Prepayment | | Premium

The interest rate (expressed
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on the
day of prepayment multiplied by:

Not more than three years | OF 0.18
before maturity |

More than three years but | | : 0.35
- not more than six years |
before maturity

More than six years but oo 0.65
- not more than eleven years
before maturity

More than eleven years but not | 0.88
more than fifteen years |
before maturity

More than fifteen years before. | 1.00
maturity

 
- 14 -

SCHEDULE 4
Modifications of General Conditions

For the purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:

1. The following provisions of the General Conditions are

deleted:

(a) ‘The last sentence of Section 3.02.

(b) Section 5.02.

(c) Section 5.04.

(d) section 5.08.

(e) The phrase ", except that the Borrower may not so cancel
any amount of the Loan in respect of which the Bank shall have
entered into a special commitment pursuant to Section 5.02" in
section 6.01. | |

(£) Clause (c) of Section 6.03.

—(g) Section 6.04.

(h) The phrase “and not subject to any special commitment
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02" in Section 6.07.

(4) Section 9.04.

(5) Section 9.05.

(k) Section 9.06. .

(1) Section 9.08.

(m) Section 9.09.

2. Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:

"Section 4.01. Currencies in which Withdrawals are to

be Made. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be made in the
read:

read:

7.

-~ 15 -

respective currencies in which the payments to be financed out

of the proceeds of the Loan have been made or are to be made."

The last sentence of Section 4.02 (a) shall be modified to

"Each such amount shall be deleted from the Central
Disbursement Account on the date it becomes due or such
earlier date as may be accepted by the Bank for prepayment or
as may be specified for prepayment pursuant to the Loan
Agreement." |

The second sentence of Section 4.02 (c) shall be modified to
"Each such amount shall be deleted from such sub-account

on the date it becomes due or such earlier date as may be
accepted for prepayment or as may be specified for prepayment

pursuant to the Loan Agreement."

Section 5.01 shall be modified to read:

"Section 5.01. Withdrawal from the Loan Account. The
Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw from the Loan Account
amounts paid for the purposes of the Project in accordance
with the provisions of the Loan Agreement and of these General
Conditions." |

Section 5.03 shall be modified to read:

"Section 5.03. Applications for Withdrawal. When the
Borrower shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Loan
Account, the Borrower shal]? deliver to the Bank a written
application in such form, and containing such statements and
agreements, as the Bank shall reasonably request."

In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as

subparagraph (1) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:

| "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
the Bank’s Articles of Agreement." | |

 
- 16 -

Section 9.07 shall be modified to read:

"Section 9.07. Records and Reports. (a) The Borrower
shall: (i) maintain records and procedures adequate to record
and monitor the progress of the 1994 Financing Plan (including
its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify
the payments financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to
disclose their use in the 1994 Financing Flan; (ii) enable the
Bank’s representatives to examine the records and documents
relevant to the performance of the obligations of the Borrower
under the Loan Agreement; and (iii) furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the 1994 Financing Plan, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from
it, and the payments financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

(b) Not later than six months after the Closing Date
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the carrying out of
the 1994 Financing Plan, its cost and the benefits derived and
to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."
INTERNATIONAL BANK |
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

CERTIFICATE

i hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank

for Reconstruction and Development.

SM Ch.

FOR SECRETARY

 
 

 

LOAN NUMBER 3804 POL

Implementation Agreement

relating to the use of portions
of the proceeds of Loans 3341 POL (Financial
Institutions Development Loan); 3599 POL (Enterprise and Financial
Sector Adjustment Loan); and 3600 POL (Agriculture
Sector Adjustment Loan) for debt reduction.

between
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated , 1994
LOAN NUMBER 3804 POL
IMPLEMENTATION AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT, dated » 1994, between the REPUBLIC
OF POLAND (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
_ AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) .

WHEREAS (A) by (i) a Loan Agreement between the Borrower and
the Bank dated August 14, 1991 for the Financial Institutions
Development Loan No. 3341 POL (such agreement, as has been or may
be amended, hereinafter referred to as the FIDL Loan Agreement);
(ii) a Loan Agreement between the Borrower and the Bank dated
October 11, 1993 for the Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment
Loan No. 3599 POL (such agreement, as has been or may be amended,
hereinafter referred to as the EFSAL Loan Agreement); and (iii) a
Loan Agreement between the Borrower and the Bank dated September 8,
1993 for the Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan No. 3600 POL (such
agreement, as has been or may be amended, hereinafter referred to as
the ASAL Loan Agreement), the Bank agreed to make each of the
aforementioned three Loans (each of such Loans hereinafter
respectively referred to as FIDL, EFSAL, and ASAL, and collectively
referred to as the Loans) in amounts in various currencies
equivalent to two hundred million dollars ($200,000,000), four |
hundred and fifty million dollars ($450,000,000), and three hundred
million dollars ($300,000,000), respectively, on the terms and
conditions respectively set forth in the FIDL Loan Agreement, the
EFSAL Loan Agreement, and the ASAL Loan Agreement;

(B) each of the aforementioned Loan Agreements provides,
inter alia, that, subject to agreement by the Borrower and the Bank,
the Borrower may use portions of the proceeds of the respective
Loans up to an aggregate amount of two hundred and thirty million
dollars ($230,000,000) equivalent for the implementation of a Debt
Reduction Plan of the Borrower; while, as provided in Schedule 1 to
the FIDL Loan Agreement, the amount of thirty million dollars
($30,000,000) is available as Set-aside Funds (the FIDL Set-aside
Funds) under FIDL for a Debt Reduction Plan (referred to in Part B
of Schedule 2 to the FIDL Loan Agreement); while as provided in
Schedule 1 to the EFSAL Loan Agreement, the amount of one hundred
million dollars ($100,000,000) is available as Set-aside Funds (the
EFSAL Set-aside Funds) under EFSAL for a Debt Reduction Plan
(referred to in Part B of Schedule 2 to the EFSAL Loan Agreement);
and while as provided in Schedule 1 to the ASAL Loan Agreement, the
amount of one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000) is available as —
Set-aside Funds (the ASAL Set-aside Funds) under ASAL for a Debt |
Reduction Plan (referred to in Part B of Schedule 2 to the ASAL Loan
Agreement) ;
~2.

| (C) the international banking community has responded
favorably to the Borrower’s request, dated May 23, 1994 and
denominated "1994 Financing Plan" (the 1994 Financing Plan), for
participation in a debt and debt service reduction program of the
Borrower;

(D) ~~ the Borrower has requested the Bank to release the Set-
aside Funds (as hereinafter defined) in such amounts as will be
necessary for financing a portion of the cost of the Purchase (as
hereinafter defined) of Eligible Debt (as hereinafter defined) and
associated interest and, for that purpose, to enter into this
Agreement (hereinafter the "Implementation Agreement");

(E) the Borrower has also requested the assistance of the
International Monetary Fund for financing a portion of the cost of
its debt and debt service reduction program; and

WHEREAS, upon the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the
Bank and the Borrower have agreed to enter into the Implementation
Agreement on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;

NOW THEREFORE , the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Provisions; Definitions

Section 1.01. (a) It is hereby agreed that (i) this
Implementation Agreement supplements the provisions of each of the
FIDL Loan Agreement, EFSAL Loan Agreement and ASAL Loan Agreement
with the aim of governing the withdrawal of proceeds of the
respective Loans for the purposes described in Clause (D) of the
Preamble to this Agreement; (ii) this Agreement will be considered
a supplemental agreement for purposes of Section 2.01 paragraph 3
of the General Conditions applicable to each of the aforesaid Loan
Agreements (the General Conditions); and (iii) to the extent the
General Conditions shall apply to the use of the Set-aside Funds and
to this Implementation Agreement, each reference to "Project" in the
provisions of the General Conditions and in this Implementation
Agreement shall be understood as a reference to "Project" as defined
in paragraph (m) of Section 1.02 below.

Section 1.02. The several terms defined in the Preamble to
this Implementation Agreement, and, unless otherwise required by the
context, in the FIDL Loan Agreement, EFSAL Loan Agreement and ASAL

 
_ 30

Loan Agreement, and the General Conditions, have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

(a) "Closing Agent" means the closing agent or similar agent
appointed by the Borrower for the purposes of concluding the Debt
Purchase Agreements (as hereinafter defined);

(b) "Debt and Debt Service Reduction Loan Agreement" means
the loan agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the
Borrower for Loan No. 3804 POL (the Debt and Debt Service Reduction
Loan), as such agreement may be amended from time to time;

(c) "Debt Purchase Agreements" mean the final legal
documentation evidencing the acceptance by the Borrower of the
tenders received in response to the Debt Purchase Offer (as
hereinafter defined);

(d) "Debt Purchase Offer" means the debt purchase offer made
by the Borrower under the agreements entered into pursuant to the
1994 Financing Plan;

(e) "Eligible Debt" has the same meaning ascribed thereto
in the 1994 Financing Plan;

(£) | "Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower,
which begins on January 1 and ends on December 31 of each year;

(g) "Participating Lenders" mean the commercial banks and
other financial institutions with Eligible Debt that have executed
the Debt Purchase Agreements;

(h) "Project" means the Purchase of Eligible Debt and the
acquisition of Collateral for the purpose of securing the payment
of principal on the debt instruments issued pursuant to the 1994
Financing Plan;

(i) "Purchase" means the aggregate of cash payments made by —
the Borrower to Participating Lenders under the Debt Purchase
Agreements and to be partially financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan; and "Specific Purchase" means the specific portions of the
Purchase to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan under
Category (1) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
the Debt and Debt Service Reduction Loan Agreement; and |
 

-~4-

(j) "Set-aside Funds" mean any of the FIDL Set-aside Funds
or the EFSAL Set-aside Funds or the ASAL Set-aside Funds or, if the
context so requires, collectively, all of the said Set-aside Funds.

ARTICLE II
Utilization of the Set-aside Funds
Section 2.01. An amount of the Set- aside Funds not exceeding

the equivalent of the aggregate amount of two hundred and thirty
willion dollars ($230,000,000) may be withdrawn from the respective

Loan Accounts in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to.

this Implementation Agreement.

Section 2.02. If the Set-aside Funds are not withdrawn by June
30, 1995, or such later date as approved by the Bank, they shall, at
the request of the Borrower, be reallocated to the respective
categories of withdrawals under the Loans as provided for in the
FIDL Loan Agreement, EFSAL Loan Agreement and ASAL Loan Agreement,
respectively.

Section 2.03. (a) The Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
require the Borrower to repay, in advance of maturity, such portion
of the principal amount of the respective Set-aside Funds then
outstanding, together with all accrued interest and other charges
thereon, if the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount of the Set-aside Funds has not been used for the purpose of
the Project and such amount has not been reallocated pursuant to
Section 2.02. In this case the amount of such Set-aside Funds
subject to prepayment shall be such amount as shall have been so
determined.

(b) The Borrower shall inform the Bank of the occurrence of
the event listed in paragraph (a) of this Section within five (5)
working days of the occurrence thereof. |

(c) The Bank hereby waives the payment of any premium
payable under the respective Schedules 3 to the FIDL Loan Agreement,
the EFSAL Loan Agreement and the ASAL Loan Agreement on prepayment

of any portion of the respective Set-aside Funds of the Loans_

pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section.

(d) Prepayment of all or any portion of the Set-aside Funds
in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section shall be made on a
date and in the currency specified by the Bank and the amount so

 
-5.-

prepaid shall be deleted from the Central Disbursement Account on
such date.

Section 2.04. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Implementation Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions, including preparing withdrawal
applications in respect of the Set-aside Funds and collecting the
documents and other evidence to be furnished to the Bank in support
of such applications.

ARTICLE III
Other Covenants

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall, from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the 1994
Financing Plan; and

— (b) prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the 1994
Financing Plan in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.

ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the payments made in respect of the Project and financed out of the
proceeds of the Set-aside Funds.

 (b) The Borrower shall:

(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate

auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
| any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year a certified copy of the report
-6-—

of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request. —

ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank

Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 7.01 {(h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely,
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable, in the
opinion of the Bank, that the 1994 Financing Plan, or any
significant part thereof, will be carried out.

ARTICLE VI
6 | Effective Date; Termination

Section 6. 01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Implementation Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

(a) that the Borrower has confirmed, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, the availability of adequate resources to
implement the 1994 Financing Plan;

(b) that the Debt and Debt Service Reduction Loan Agreement
has become effective, in accordance with its terms; and

(c) that the Borrower has entered, pursuant to the 1994
Financing Plan, into Debt Purchase Agreements with Participating.
Lenders for the Purchase of Eligible Debt and associated interest
of an amount equivalent to approximately $1,324,551,405.96, and for
the exchange of Eligible Debt (i) for Par Bonds due October 27, 2024
of an amount equivalent to approximately $929,945,000; (ii) for
Discount Bonds due October 27, 2024 of an amount equivalent to
approximately $2,970,214,000; (iii) for RSTA Bonds due October 27,
2024 of an amount equivalent to approximately $899,841,000; (iv) for
PDI Bonds due October 27, 2014 of an amount equivalent to
approximately $2,651,237,000; (v) for Debt Conversion Bonds due

 
-7-

October 27, 2019 of an amount equivalent to approximately
$393,017,000; and (vi) for New Money Bonds due October 27, 2009 of
an amount equivalent to approximately $137,556,000.

“Section 6.02. The date sixty (60) days from the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions. |

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

REPUBLIC OF POLAND

By | |
Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By | |
Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Set-aside Funds

l. The table below sets forth the Category of expenditures made
by the Borrower in respect of the Specific Purchases to be financed
out of the proceeds of each of the Set-aside Funds under the Loans
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in
such Category: | |

Amount of the
Set-aside Funds

Allocated | % of
| (Expressed in | Expenditures
Category Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) Specific |
Purchases:
(a) from FIDL 30,000,000)
| | ) |
(b) from EFSAL | 100,000,000) 100% of foreign
| ) expenditures
(c) from ASAL 100,000,000) |
| oe )
TOTAL | 230,000,000
2. For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “foreign

expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than that of the Borrower for the Specific Purchases.

3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made: (a) in respect of the Specific Purchases
unless the Bank shall have approved the procedures for such
withdrawals; (b) in respect of any Specific Purchase, unless the
Borrower has furnished to the Bank a certificate in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank showing that the Specific
Purchase in question, as provided for in the corresponding
agreement(s) referred to in Part A of the Project, remain in full
force and effect; and (c) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
-~9.

the proceeds of the loan under the Debt and Debt Service Reduction
Loan Agreement are being disbursed concurrently with the Set-aside
Funds. | | |

 
INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPM ENT

CERTIFICATE

Thereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank

for Reconstruction and Development.

SO ¥/. Ch,

FOR SECRETARY

 
