ER AC re SMR IN Eo Rip hha

yl WERE gins re e
aot ERE. ff

5 # aet hie (
PURER oes,
SL

oo , \
pon GS § p

aa
BEng ele b MES end ey cE ia Oe Oe ey :
ja ves = , os cs wT AISI Vee FN.
.- “ 3 .

LOAN NUMBER 3789 BR

Loan Agreement

(Ceara Urban Development and Water
Resource Management Project)

between

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT |

and

STATE OF CEARA

Dated. Yue he JE» 1994

 

 

 
LOAN NUMBER 3789 BR

| | | LOAN AGREEMENT
fe. (6 |
AGREEMENT, dated Hmeccrrk , 1994,

between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank) and STATE OF CEARA (the Borrower). . |

WHEREAS: (A) Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and
the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

(B) by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the
Guarantee Agreement; and

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
| ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integrai part of this Agreement: | |

(a) The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

| (b) In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) ais relettered as
subparagraph (1) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:

"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
the Bank’s Articles of Agreement." | |

_ Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

 
(a) "BEC" means Banco do Estado do Ceara, the State’s bank;

(b) "BEC Agreements" means the agreements between the
Borrower and BEC, dated April 15, 1994, whereby BEC has agreed to
assist the Borrower in making Subsidiary Loan Agreements and Grant
Agreements;

(c) "Beneficiary" means either a Municipality, or CAGECE, or
COGERH, or COELCE, or a Municipal Water and Sewerage Company;

(d) - “CAGECE" means Companhia de Agua e Esgoto do Ceara, the
Borrower’s water and sewerage company;

 

(e)  "CAGECE Performance Plan" means the financial plan for
CACEGE described in the letter dated April 15, 1994 from the
Borrower to the Bank; :

(£) "COELCE" means ‘Companhia Energética do Estado do Cearé,
the Borrower’s power company ; :

(2) "COGERH" means Companhia de Gestao dos Recursos
Hidricos, the Borrower’s water resources management company;

(h) "Dam Safety Review Panel" means the panel of experts in
dam safety who will assist SRH in the reviews referred to in Section
3.06 (b) of this Agreement, pursuant to the terms of reference
included in SRH’s dam safety program issued in June 1994, such panel
to be composed of experts with qualifications acceptable to the
Bank; | .

(i) "DNOCS Agreement" means the agreement, dated February 8,
v9 as amended pursuant to amendment No. 1/94, between
oroviding for the transfer to the Borrower of the responsibility for
the operation and maintenance of the reservoirs included in Part C.3 _
of the Project; .

(j) "FDU" means Fundo de Desenvolvimento Urbano do Estado do
Ceard, the Borrower’s urban development fund, created pursuant to
the Borrower’s law No. 12252/94, to which shall be deposited the

proceeds of the Loan and the Borrower’s counterpart funds allocated
to finance Parts A.1l, B and D.1 of the Project;

 

| (k) "FDU Grant" means any grant made under a FDU Grant
Agreement; , oe . |

 
-3-

(1) “FDU Grant Agreement" means any of the agreements
referred to in Section 3.03 (a)(i) of this Agreement;

(m) "FDU Subloan" means any loan made under a FDU Subsidiary
Loan Agreement

(n) "FDU Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any of the
agreements referred to in Section 3.03 (b)(i) of this Agreement j

(o) "FUNORH" means Fundo Estadual de Recursos Hidricos, the
Borrower’s water resources fund, created pursuant to the Borrower’s
law No. 11996/92, as amended by the Borrower’s law No. 12245/93, to.
which shall be deposited the proceeds of the Loan and the Borrower’s
counterpart funds allocated to finance Parts A.2, C and D.2 of the

Project;

( p) "FUNORH Grant" means any grant made under a FUNORH Grant
Agreement; | |

(q)  "FUNORH Grant Agreement" means any of the agreements
referred to in Section 3.03 (a) (43) of this Agreement;

(r) "FUNORH Subloan" means any loan made under a FUNORH
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

(s) *FUNORH Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any of the
agreements referred to in Section 3.03 (b)(ii) of this Agreement;

(t) "Grant Agreement" means either a FDU Grant Agreement or
a FUNORH Grant Agreement;

(u) "Municipal Water and Sewerage Company" means any water
and sewerage company owned or controlled by a Municipality, which is
considered by the Borrower as eligible, pursuant to the criteria
specified in Operational Manual, to receive FDU Subloans; |

(v) "Municipality" means any municipality of the Borrower
which is considered by the Borrower as eligible, pursuant to the
criteria specified in the Operational Manual, to participate in the
carrying out of Parts A.1 and B.1 of the Project; .

| (w) “Operational Manual" means the manual issued by SDU
through Portaria No. 094/94, of July 14, 1994, containing, inter
alia, a basic Project orientation guide for the Beneficiaries,
eligibility criteria for the Beneficiaries, eligibility criteria for

 
the Subprojects, standard bidding documents and letters of
invitation, Subproject monitoring and evaluation criteria and
guidelines for the preparation of environmental assessment of
Subprojects and of resettlement and mitigation plans;

(x) "SDU" means Secretaria do Desenvolvimento Urbano e Meio

Ambiente, the Borrower’s Secretariat of Urban Development and
Environment 3 a

(y) "SEMACE" means Superintendéncia Estadual do Meio
Ambiente, SDU’s Superintendency of Environment; en

(z) "Special Account" means tiie account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

(aa) "SRH" means Secretaria dos Recursos Hidricos, the
Borrower’s Secretariat for Water Resources; |

(ab) "STAS" means Secretaria do Trabalho e Ac&o Social, the
Borrower’s Labor and Social Assistance Secretariat; a

(ac) "Subloan" means either a FDU Subloan or a FUNORH
Subloan; | | oo | : | | a

(ad) "Subproject" means any of the subprojects included in
Parts B and C cf the Project, which are considered to be eligible,
pursuant to the criteria specified in the Operational Manual (and,
in the case of Part C of the Project, which have also been approved
by the Bank), to be financed under Subloans;

(ae) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means either a FDU
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the FUNORH Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

and  ,

(af) “UCP” means the unit within SDU created for purposes of
coordinating the execution of the Project. SS |

ARTICLE II

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred and forty million dollars ($140,000,000),

 
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
_the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement. — |

| Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2000 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 12) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time. | | |

| ‘Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 12). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period. —

— (b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, |
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

 
-6-

(c) For the purposes of this Section:

(i) "Interest Period" means a six-month period
ending on the date immediately preceding each >
date specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
which this Agreement is signed.

(ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
as reasonably determined by the Bank and
expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
or portions thereof as-the Bank has allocated to
fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
bearing interest rates determined otherwise than

as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

(iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the |
| second six months of a calendar year.

(d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
2.06 cf this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
applicable during such Interest Period." .

"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of
each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined |
in respect of such Quarter.’

"(c) (444) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
commencing on January l, April 1, July 1 or October lin |
a calendar year."

 
-7-

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year. |

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. | | |

_ ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project

| Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall: (a) carry out the components of
Part A of the Project under its responsibility and cause, through
the FDU Grant Agreements and FUNORH Grant Agreements, as the case
may be, Municipalities, CAGECE and COGERH to carry out their
respective components of Part A of the Project; (b) cause, through
the FDU Subsidiary Loan Agreements and the FDU Grant Agreements,
Municipalities and COELCE to carry out Part B.1 of the Project; (c)
cause, through the FDU Subsidiary Loan Agreements and the FDU Grant
Agreements, Municipalities, CAGECE and Municipal Water and Sewerage
Companies to carry out Part B.2 of the Project; (d) cause, through
the FUNORH Subsidiary Loan Agreements and the FUNORH Grant
Agreements, as the case may be, COGERH to carry out Parts C and D.2
of the Project; and (e) carry out Part D.1 of the Project, through
STAS, all with due diligence and efficiency and in contormity with
appropriate administrative, financial, technical, engineering and
environmental practices and the provisions of the Operational
Manual, and the Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project. a

Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

(b) The Borrower shall, not later than January 31 of each
year during the execution of the Project, publish a general notice
ain one newspaper of wide national circulation in Brazil, acceptable
to the Bank, and in the Development Business or other international
publication acceptable to the Bank, containing information,
satisfactory to the Bank, about the Project and the types and
amounts of contracts expected to be awarded under the Project,

 
-8-

pursuant to the provisions of Part A of Section I of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement, during the relevant calendar year.

Section 3.03 (a) The Borrower, through BEC, shall enter into
agreements: (i) with Municipalities, CAGECE, COELCE and Municipal
Water and Sewerage Companies (the FDU Grant Agreements) whereby the
Borrower shall undertake to transfer, on a grant basis, to each
Municipality, CAGECE, COELCE and each Municipal Water and Sewerage
Company, as the case may be, the proceeds of the FDU allocated to
finance, on a grant basis, the respective component of Part A.1 and
the Subprojects under Part B of the Project under the responsibility
of such Municipality, CAGECE, CCELCE and Municipal Water and
Sewerage Company; and (ii) with COGERH (the FUNORH Grant Agreements)
whereby the Borrower shall undertake to transfer, on a grant basis,
to COGERH the proceeds of the FUNORH allocated to finance, on a
grant basis, Parts A.2, C and D.2 of the Project, such FDU Grant
Agreements and FUNORH Grant Agreements to have terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including those set forth or referred to
in Part II of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. |

(b) The Borrower, through BEC, shall enter into agreements
with: (i) Municipalities, CAGECE, COELCE and Municipal Water and
Sewerage Companies (the FDU Subsidiary Loan Agreements), whereby the
Borrower shall relend to each Municipality, CAGECE, COELCE and each
Municipal Water and Sewerage Company the proceeds of the Loan
deposited in the FDU and allocated to finance their respective
Subprojects under Part B of the Project; and (ii) COGERH (the FUNORH
Subsidiary Loan Agreements) whereby the Borrower shall relend to
COGERH the proceeds of the Loan deposited in the FUNORH and
allocated to finance the Subprojects under Part C of the Project,
such FDU Subsidiary Loan Agreements and FUNORH Subsidiary Loan |
Agreements to have terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including those set forth in Part I of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with.
its obligations under the BEC Agreements, the Grant Agreements and
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or fail to enforce
any of such agreements or any provision thereof. |

(d) The Borrower, through BEC, shall use the proceeds of the
principal repaid and interest and other charges paid under the FDU
Subloans and FUNORH Subloans, respectively, to make further loans to

 
~9-

‘the Beneficiaries under the same terms and conditions of the FDU
Subloans and FUNORH Subloans, respectively, and for projects similar
to the Subprojects. |

Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, during the execution of the
Project: (a) maintain the UCP with functions, responsibilities and
staff satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required by the

CP to carry out its functions and responsibilities in a timely
manner.

Section 3.05. Without limitation to the provisions of Section

9.01 (a) of the General Conditions, the Bank and the Borrower shall,
on the eighteenth month after the Effective Date, exchange views on
the feasibility of Laving the coordination of the carrying out of
Parts A.2, C and D.2 of the Project to be transferred from UCP to a
unit within SRH. If the Bank and the Borrower agree on such
feasibility, the Borrower shall, promptly thereafter, create and
maintain, within SRH, such unit, with functions, responsibilities
and staff satisfactory to the Bank, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
by such unit to carry out its functions and ‘responsibilities in a
timely manner.

Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) not later than
twelve months after the Effective Date, complete, under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank, a study on the expected
cumulative environmental impact of Part C of the Project, and
furnish to the Bank a copy of such study; and (ii) not later than
December 31, 1994, furnish to the Bank a copy of the first phase of
such study. | |

(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain the Dam Safety Review
Panel during the execution of Part C of the Project; and (ii) carry
out, in accordance with the terms thereof, the program, presented by
the Borrower to the Bank in June 1994, of periodic reviews of dam
safety to be conducted by such Panel in respect of the reservoirs
included in Part C of the Project.

(ec) The Borrower shall, during the execution of the Project,
maintain within SRH a unit with the responsibility of reviewing the
physical, biological and social (including resettlement) impacts of
the Subprojects under Part C of the Project, and of monitoring the
environmental mitigatory measures recommended for such Subprojects,

 
- 10 -

such unit to be assisted by at least one environmental and
resettlement specialist acceptable to the Bank.

Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall submit to the prior
approval of the Bank any Subproject under Part C.1 of the Project.

(b) When submitting a Subproject under Part C.1 of the
Project to the Bank for approval, the Borrower shall furnisn to the
Bank an application, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank,
which shall include: (i) a summary of the appraisal of the
puProjects and a description of the expenditures proposed to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) such cther
information as the Bank shall reasonably request in respect of such
Subproject. |

Section 3.08. The Borrower shall:

(a) not later than twelve months after the Effective Date,
complete a study, under terms of reference approved by the Bank, on
bulk water tariff;

(b) "promptly thereafter, exchange views with the Bank on the
. recommendations of such study;

(c) based on the recommendations of such study, es tablish an
appropriate tariff structure for bulk water to be supplied by
COGERH, and put it into effect in accordance with the timetable
recommended by such study, provided, however, that the
implementation of such tariff structure shall start not later than
August 1, 1995. : :

Section 3. 09. Without limitation to the provisions of Section
9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower, through the UCP, shall
furnish to the Bank:

(a) a report of such scope and in such detail (including,
inter alia, the monitoring indicators set forth in the Operational
Manual) as the Bank shall reasonably request: (i) not later than
January 31, April 30, July 31 and Octcber 30 of each year during the
execution of the Project, on the execution of the Project in the
calendar quarter next preceding such dates; and (ii) not later than

February 28 of each year during the execution of the Project, on the
execution of the Project in the calendar year next preceding such
date; and |

 
-~ ll -

(b) one month before the review referred to in Section 3.10
(a) of this Agreement, a report on the overall Project
implementation and detailing the progress in the carrying out of
Part A.2 of the Project, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.

Section 3.10. Without limitation or restriction to any of the
provisions of this Agreement and the General Conditions, the
Borrower shall:

(a) on the thirtieth month after the Effective Date,
undertake a review with the Bank of the progress in the execution of
the Project and the attainment of its objectives; and

(b) take or cause to be taken any remedial action which
shall have been agreed upon by the Bank and the Borrower, during the
review referred to in paragraph (a) above, as necessary to be taken
for the efficient execution of the Project or for the attainment of
its objectives, such action to be taken in the manner and within the
timetable agreed upon during such review.

ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through the UCP, shall
maintain or cause to be maintained records and separate accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the
Project.

(b) The Borrower shall:

(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
_ paragraph (a) of this Section and the records
and accounts for the Special Account for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to

the Bank;

(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail

 
(iii)

- 12 -

as the Bank shall have reasonably requested,
such report to include, inter alia, information
on the compliance by the Borrower and the
Beneficiaries with the procurement procedures
referred to in Part C.2 of Section I of Schedule
4 to this Agreement; and |

furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning said records and accounts as well as
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to.
time reasonably request.

(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

(i)

(ii)

(iii)

(iv)

maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
this Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures};

retain, until at least one year after the Bank
has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
Account or payment out of the Special Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents }

evidencing such expenditures;

enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
such records; and

ensure that such records and accounts are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion
by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

 
- 13 -)

ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank

Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the DNOCS Agreement is not being complied with in accordance
with its terms, provided, however, that in such a case, the
suspension by the Bank of the Borrower’s right to make withdrawals
from the Loan Account may be limited by the Bank to withdrawals
related to Subprojects under Part C of the Project.

Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.

ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination

Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

| (a) at least four FUNORH Grant Agreements to finance at
least four Subprojects under Part C.1 of the Project have been
entered into; .

(b) at least five FDU Subsidiary Loan Agreements to finance
Subprojects under Part B of the Project have been entered into
between the respective parties thereto; and >

(ce) this Agreement has been registered by the Central Bank
of Brazil. | |

Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank: :

(a) this Agreement has been registered by the Central Bank
of Brazil; ‘and

 
- 14 -

(b) all acts, consents, and approvals, together with all
necessary powers and rights in connection therewith, have been duly
and validly performed or given and no other such acts, consents or
approvals are required in order to authorize the carrying out of the
Project and to enable the Borrower and the Guarantor to perform all
of their respective covenants, agreements and obligations contained
in this Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement, respectively.

Section 6.03. The date Ye ae Me. 19/647 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions. —

ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary of SDU is designated as

representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.

Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Bank:

International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development

1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address: | | Telex:

INTBAFRAD | 248423 (RCA)

Washington, D.C. 82987 (FTCC) |
64145 (WUL) or
197688 (TRT)

 
- 15 -

For the Borrower:

Secretaria do Desenvolvimento Urbano e
Meio Ambiente

Centro Administrativo Governador Virgilio

: Tavora a |

Edificio Sede da Seplan - 1° Andar

60050-081 Fortaleza, Ceara

Brazil

Telex:
85-2925
With copies to:
SEAIN-Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Secretaria de Planejamento, Orgamento e Coordenacdo
| da Presidéncia da Reptblica oo
Esplanada dos Ministérios - Bloco K - 5° Andar
70040-906 Brasilia, DF

Brazil

Telex:

061-1146

 
- 16 -

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in » as
of the day and year first above written. | | |

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

sf

By 7°
a Chay Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean

STATE OF CEARA

AY

N

Authorized Representative

By

 
- 17 -

SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

Amount of the | |
Loan Allocated % of

| (Expressed in Expenditures
Category Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) Civil works 78,300,000 100% of foreign

expenditures and
60% of local
expenditures

(2) Goods | 47,600,000 100% of foreign
| OF | expenditures and
60% of local

expenditures
(3) Consultants’ | 11,000,000 | 502 of local
services Oo | expenditures for
| | services of
consultants

domiciled within
the territory of
the Guarantor

and 1002 of
foreign expen-
ditures for
services of

other consultants

 
- 18 -

Amount of the :
Loan Allocated Z of

(Expressed in Expenditures
Category Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(4) Other services 3,100,000 100% of foreign

expenditures and
60% of local
expenditures

TOTAL 140,000,000

2. For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; |

(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Guarantor; and

(c) the term "other services" includes transportation and
training activities, and printing materials.

3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to
exceed $14,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after November 1, 1993 or a date
which is 12 months before the date of this Agreement, whichever is
later;

(b) expenditures under Part A of the Project for any
component under the responsibility of a Beneficiary, unless the
corresponding FDU Grant Agreement or FUNORH Grant Agreement, as the
case may be, has been entered into;

 
- 19 -

(c) expenditures under any Subproject in Part B of the
Project, unless the Bank has been furnished with the environmental
mitigation plan for such Subproject, as required and approved by
SEMACE; |

(d) expenditures under any Subproject in Parts B or C of the
Project, unless the corresponding FDU Subsidiary Loan Agreement, FDU
Grant Agreement, FUNORH Subsidiary Loan Agreement and FUNORH Grant
Agreement, as the case may be, have been entered into; |

— (e) expenditures for any Subproject under Part C.1l of the
Project, unless: (i) such Subproject has been approved by the Bank;
(ii) such Subproject has received a certificate of approval issued
by the Dam Safety Review Panel; and (iii) the Bank has been
furnished with a summary of the environmental impact assessment (or,
if requested by the Bank, the entire environmental impact
assessment) in respect of such Subproject and any resettlement plan
which may be required as a result of such Subproject, all
satisfactory to the Bank; and | |

(£) expenditures for any Subproject under Part C.3 of the
Project regarding a reservoir owned by DNOCS, unless the Bank has
been furnished with evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the
responsibility for operation and maintenance of such reservoir has
been transferred to the Borrower pursuant to the DNOCS Agreement.

4. The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under contracts for goods, works and consultants’ services costing
less than the equivalent of $250,000 in the case of goods,
$2,000,000 in the case of works, $100,000 in the case of consulting
firms and $50,000 in the case of individual consultants, all under
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. |

 
- 20 -.

SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project

The objectives of the Project are: (a) to strengthen the
financial management and institutional capacity of Municipalities
and the Borrower’s urban development and water resources management |
agencies; (b) to improve living conditions in very poor
neighborhoods in selected cities in the Borrower’s territory; (c) to
increase the efficiency of water use in the Borrower’s territory;
and (d) to provide a reliable, economic and safe source of water
supply to targeted urban communities in critical need in the
Borrower’s territory.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A: Institutional Development
l. Administrative and financial strengthening of Municipalities

and the Borrower’s agencies involved in the carrying out of Parts B
and C of the Project, through technical assistance, training,
provision of information technology equipment, and carrying out of
studies to further develop the Borrower’s environmental control,
urban development (including a municipal taxation study) and
resettlement policies. |

2. Assistance in the implementation of the Borrower’s water
resource management policy, including the establishment of basin
planning and real-time management in at least four of the Borrower’s

eleven basins, technical assistance and training to COGERH’s staff,

which will require the utilization of consultants’ services and
acquisition and utilization of equipment, and a study on bulk water
tariffs. |

Part Be Urban Infrastructure

 

l. Subprojects designed to provide basic municipal infrastructure
(low-cost sanitation, drainage, street paving and lighting, housing,
and community facilities) targeted to the poor population in about
140 areas in small towns and medium-sized cities in the Borrower’ Ss

territory.

 
- 21 -

2. Subprojects for (i) installation of water supply and sewerage
connections and for low-cost sewerage treatment in the areas
included in Part B.1 of the Project, and (ii) water supply
conservation in Municipalities other than Fortaleza.

Part Cs: Water Resources Management Infrastructure
l. Subprojects for the construction of about 35 water storage

reservoirs and the required water supply conveyance systems from
such reservoirs.

2. Subprojects for the construction of about 10 water supply
conveyance systems from existing reservoirs in the Borrower’s
territory. |

3. Subprojects for rehabilitation of existing reservoirs in the
Borrower’s territory.

Part D: Pilot Projects

l. A pilot program to provide vocational education for children

of low income families.

2. A pilot program to test trading of water rights through the
establishment of a water market in the Araras Norte agricultural
district, in the Acarat basin.

*¥ &e *

The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1999.

 
~ 22 -

SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule

oe | Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due | (expressed in dollars)

On each March 15 and September 15.

beginning March 15, 2000
through September 15, 2009 7,000,000

 

x The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
-~ 23 -

Premiums on Prepayment

Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

Time of Prepayment | | : Premium

The interest rate (expressed
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on

the day of prepayment
multiplied by:

Not more than three years | 0.20
before maturity

More than three years but 0.40
not more than six years
before maturity

More than six years but | a 0.73
not more than 11 years
before maturity

More than 11 years but not | | 0.87
more than 13 years
before maturity

More than 13 years before | | 1.90
maturity

 
~ 24 «

SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A: International Competitive Bidding |
l. Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be

procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines). |

(a) For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder’s bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and
the other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such an
increase | shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.

(b) In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with
this Part A, the Borrower shall use or cause to be used the relevant
standard bidding documents issued by the Bank for the use of its
borrowers, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have |
agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no _
relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank,
the Borrower shall use or cause to be used bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Bank.

Part Bs; _ Preference for Domestic Manufacturers |

 

In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Brazil may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with the provisions of
the Guidelines, provided, however, thats

l. All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which would be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
- 25 -

2. After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of
the following two groups: |

(a) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Brazil if
the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of
the Borrower and the Bank that such goods contain
components manufactured in Brazil equal to at least 50%
of the value of the complete goods. |

(b) Group B: bids offering any other goods.

3. In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group,
all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared among
themselves, without taking into account customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales
and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery of
the goods pursuant to the bids. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.

4. If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above, the
lowest evaluated bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids shall
be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after
adding:

(a) to the evaluated bid price of goods to be imported in
each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (i) the amount
of customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group B bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods; and

(b) to the evaluated bid price of goods supplied
domestically offered in each group B bid an amount equal to the
smaller of: (i) the amount of customs duties and other import taxes
which would be levied on the goods offered in such group B if they
originated from the same foreign country as the bid included in
group B which enjoys the lowest customs duties and other import
taxes; or (ii) 15% of the ex-factory bid Price of such goods.

If, as a result of this comparison, the bid from group A is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if not, the lowest
evaluated bid from group B, as determined under paragraph 3 above,
shall be selected for the award.

 
- 26 -

Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1. Civil works and goods estimated to cost the equivalent of

$5,000,000 and $250,000 or less per contract, respectively, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $98,600,000, in the case of civil
works, and $26,000,000, in the case of goods, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

2. Civil works and goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 and $25,000 or less per contract, respectively, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $7,000,000, in the case of civil
works, and $20,500,000, in the case of goods, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three contractors or suppliers, as the case
may be, eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures .
acceptable to the Bank.

Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
_. Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards. and final
contracts: |

(a) With respect to each contract to be awarded pursuant to
the provisions of Part A hereof, and to all contracts for civil
works estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or more, to be
awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part C.1 hereof, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.

(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
-2?7-

(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2. The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purpeses of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. |

Part. Es FSRMM

For the purposes of this Schedule and the Guidelines, the term
"customs duties and other import taxes" includes the Guarantor’s
Freight Surcharge for the Renewal of the Merchant Marine (Adicional
ao Frete Para a Renovacao da Marinha Mercante), established by
Decree Law 1,142 of December 30, 1970, as amended to December 31,
1987, or any other tax, levy or charge that, in the reasonable
opinion of the Bank, may substitute it, in whole or in part, after
January 1, 1988. _ | |

Part F: Special Provisions |

Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this
Schedule or the Guidelines, the following shall apply to the
procurement of goods and/or works to be undertaken pursuant to Part
C hereof:

l. Contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been
determined to be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be
based on price and, whenever appropriate, to also take into account
factors similar to those referred to in paragraph 2.51 of the
Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall always
be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, and the
procedure for such quantification shall be disclosed in the
invitation to bid. — —

2. Whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be
advertised for at least three consecutive days in a newspaper of
wide circulation in Brazil.

3. | The arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for a joint-
venture (consércio) of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved
in advance by the Bank in each case. |

4. The invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of
acceptance of bids, minimum and/or maximum amounts for the contract
prices. | | | |

 
- 28 -

5. The purchaser shall not, without the Bank’s prior approval,
issue any change order under a contract which would increase or
decrease by more than 15% the quantity of goods (and related
services) without any change in the unit prices or other terms and
conditions of sale. |

Section Il. Employment of Consultants ©

l. In order to assist the Borrower and the Beneficiaries in the
carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall employ or cause to
be employed consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms.
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World

Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the
Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed such consultants under
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants’
services issued by the Bank for the use of its borrowers, with such
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank,
the Borrower shall use or cause to be used other standard forms
agreed with the Bank. |

2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, —
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting
firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b)
contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank
review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the
Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting
firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or
(e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to 990; 000 equivalent or
above.
- 29 -

SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1. For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a) the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

(b) the term “eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

(ec) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to 8,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule. |

2. Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively

for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3. After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special &ccount such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

(b) (i) For replenishment of the Special Account, the

| Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
deposits into the Special Account at such
intervals as the Bank shall specify. _

(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
documents and other evidence required pursuant

 
- 30 =|

to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
or payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request,
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been
shown by said documents and other evidence to
have been paid out of the Special Account for
eligible expenditures.

_ All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan >
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account: |

(a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

(b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated.
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date —
- 31] -

of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6. (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any |
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

(b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the |
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special |
Account.

(d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accardance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
~ 32 -

SCHEDULE 6

Subsidiary Loan Agreements and

Grant Agreements

Part I. Subsidiary Loan Agreements

The Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall include the Following

terms and conditions, as applicable:

l. FDU Subloans shall have the following repayment and grace

periods:
Maximum Repayment

Type of Subproject Period (Years)

Subprojects for
community facilities,
street paving,
drainage and low-
cost sanitation under
Part B.l of the
Project, and for
water supply con-
servation under

Part B.2 (ii) of

the Project : 5

Subprojects for street
lighting under Part B.1 |
of the Project 5

Subprojects for water

supply connections

under Part B.2 (i) of |
the Project | a 10

Subprojects for low-

cost sewage treat-

ment and for sewerage
connections under

Part B.2 (i) of the

Project — 10

Maximum Grace

Period (Years)
- 33 -

2. FUNORH Subloans shall have the following repayment and grace
periods:

(a) For Subprojects under Part C.2 and C.3 of the Project:
Maximum repayment period of 20 years, including a maximum 3-year
grace period; and

(b) For Subprojects under Part C.1 of the Project: maximum
repayment period of 40 years, including a maximum of 3-year grace
period.

3. The FDU Subloan shall finance the following percentages of the
total cost of the following Subprojects:

(a) 85% in the case of Subprojects for low-cost sanitation,
drainage, street paving and community facilities under Part B.1 of
the Project;

(b) 40% in the case of Subprojects under Part B.2 (i) of the
Project and Subprojects for street lighting under Part B.1l of the
Project, provided that the FDU Subloans for the first six such
Subprojects, during the first year of execution of the Project,
shall finance 58% of the total cost of such Subprojects; and |

(c) 100% in the case of Subprojects under Part B.2 (ii) of
the Project. ee

4. The FUNORH Subloan shall finance 35%, 45% and 50%,
respectively, of the total cost of each Subproject under Part C of
the Project to be carried out during the third, fourth and fifth
years of execution of such Part C, respectively. _ |

5. An annual interest rate equal to the interest rate referred to
in Section 2.05 of the Loan Agreement, which is in force on the date
of signing the corresponding Subsidiary Loan Agreement, plus not
more than 1 percentage point shall be applicable to the adjusted
outstanding principal amount of the Subloan.

6. The Subloans shall be denominated and repayable in the
currency of the Guarantor and the principal amount of each Subloan
will be adjusted every month in accordance with the prevailing rate
of inflation in Brazil as measured by the IGP-M, or any other
adjustment index satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower.
_ 34 -

7. The Subloans shall be guaranteed: (a) with the proceeds of the
sales tax (Imposto sobre Circulacado de Mercadorias e servicos) due
to the Municipalities and, when necessary, with the proceeds of the |
share of the Municipalities in the Municipal Participation Fund
(Fundo de Participacao dos Municipios) referred to in
Article 159,I,b, of the Guarantor’s Constitution, in the case of
Subloans made to Municipalities; and (b) by a pledge of revenues
and/or assets of the other Beneficiaries, © in the case of  Subloans
made to such Beneficiaries.

6B. Each Beneficiary shall undertake the following obligations:

(a) to carry out the Subproject with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity, as applicable, with appropriate
administrative, financial, technical, engineering, public utility
and environmental practices, and with the applicable provisions of
the Operational Manual, and to provide, when applicable, the funds
required to complete the financing of the Subproject;

(b) to procure the goods, works and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Subloan as provided in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement ;

(c) (i) to insure, or make adequate provision for the
insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Subloan against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable
in a currency freely usable by such Beneficiary to replace or repair
such goods; and (ii) to cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Subloan to be used exclusively for the
Subproject being carried out by such Beneficiary; .

(d) with respect to each Subproject being carried out by
each Beneficiary: (i) to furnish to the Borrower, and, if so
requested, to make available to the Bank, promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents
and construction and procurement schedules for each such Subproject,
and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto; (ii) to
maintain records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of each such Subproject (including the cost and the
benefits to be derived from each such Subproject), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Subloan, and.
to disclose their use in each Subproject; and (iii) to enable the
authorized representatives of the Bank and the Borrower to visit the
- 35 -

facilities and construction sites included in each such Subproject
and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
and any relevant records and documents in respect of each such
Subproject;

(e) to furnish to the Borrower reports, of such scope and in
such detail as the Borrower shall reasonably request and with a
periodicity of not more than 3 months, on the progress in the
execution of the Subproject being carried out by such Beneficiary;

(£) promptly after completion of the Subproject carried out
by such Beneficiary, but in any event not later than three months
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this
purpose between the Bank and the Borrower, to prepare a report
satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower on the execution of such
Subproject; oe

(g) (i) in the case of a Beneficiary other than a
Municipality, to take at all times the necessary steps to maintain
its existence and its right to carry on operations, and to acquire
and retain all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are
necessary or useful for the purpose of complying with its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, or for the
efficient conduct of its business and undertaking; (ii) to operate
and maintain at all times the plants, machinery, equipment and other
property owned or operated by it and promptly make all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with appropriate
engineering and public utility practices; and (iii) not sell, lease,
transfer or otherwise dispose of any of the property or assets owned |
or operated by it, if such sale, lease, transfer or other
disposition would materially and adversely affect the efficient
carrying out of the Subproject;

(h) to make provisions satisfactory to the Bank and the
Borrower for insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practices;

(i) to take or cause to be taken all such action as shall be
necessary to acquire, as and when needed, all such land and rights
in respect of land as shall be required for the carrying out of the
Subproject; © | =. | |

(j) to maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and
~ 36 -

financial condition, including records and separate accounts in
respect of the Subproject;

(k) (i) to have its records, accounts, and, in the case of
Beneficiaries other than Municipalities, its financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accerdance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) to furnish to the Borrower as
soon as available, but in any case not later than five months after
the end of each such year, (A) in the case of Beneficiaries other
than Municipalities, certified copies of its financial statements
for such year as so audited; and (B) the report of such audit by
said auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Borrower shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Borrewer such
other information concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof, as the Borrower shall from
time to time reasonably request;

| (1) in the case of CAGECE, to carry out the CAGECE
Performance Plan in a timely manner;

(m) to apply cost recovery policies in respect of the
investments made under the Subproject as provided in the Operational
Manual, except in the case of COGERH which shall apply the policies
recommented by the study referred to in Section 3.08 of this
Agreement ;

| (n) in the case of COGERH, to carry out the resettlement
plan referred to in paragraph 3 (e)(iii) of Schedule 1 to the Loan
Agreement, and to take any mitigatory measures that may be
recommended by the environmental impact assessment referred to in
such paragraph 3 (e)(iii), all in a manner and according to a
timetable satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank; and

(0) in the case of Beneficiaries carrying out Subprojects

under Part B of the Project, to carry out, when applicable, the
- corresponding environmental mitigation plan referred to in paragraph
3 (c) of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement in a manner and according
to a timetable satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank.
- 3/7 -

Part II. Grant Agreements

The Grant Agreements shall include, mutatis mutandis, the
applicable provisions set forth in paragraph 8 of Part I hereof, and
shall provide for the following, as applicable:

l. FDU Grants shall finance: (a) 100% of the total cost of the
components of Part A.1 of the Project to be carried out by CAGECE,
COELCE and Municipal Water and Sewerage Companies; (b) 902 of the
total cost of the components of Part A.l1 of the Project to be
carried out by Municipalities; (c) 100% and 42% of the total cost of
Subprojects for housing and street lighting, respectively, under
Part B.1 of the Project; and (d) 42% of the total cost of the
Subprojects under Part B.2 (i) of the Project.

2. FUNORH Grants shall finance: (a) 100% of the total cost of
Parts A.2 and D.2 of the Project; and (b) 100%, 100%, 65%, 40% and
252, respectively, of the total cost of each Subproject under Part
C of the Project to be carried out during the first, second, third,
fourth and fifth years of execution of such Part C, respectively. —
_ INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

CERTIFICATE

I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank

for Reconstruction and Development.

2 Chr.

SSK C77 SEC RETARY

 
