O
Oo
N
Soe
oO
>
a1
Oo
Se
>
wn
oO
oO
”
(_)
a
To
>
0

 

. Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL}
DOCUMENT

A

  

LOAN NUMBER 3812 PAK

Loan Agreement —
(Second Private Sector Energy Development Project)

| between —
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
| and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated DECEMBER 70 , 1994

 

 

 
LOAN NUMBER 3812 PAK

LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT, datea ‘YECEMMER 20 , 1994, between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN acting by its President (the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank). |

WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project; and

(B) the Borrower intends to obtain funds from the following
financiers in the following amounts or equivalent (the Cofinancing
Funds) to assist in financing the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in agreements to be entered into between the
Borrower and such financiers (the Cofinancing Agreements):

Government of France (France) - -F£50,000,000

Export-Import Bank of Japan (JEXIM) - ~§110,000,000; and

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement; .

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as £ollows:

ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement (the General |
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth,

and the following additional terms have the following meanings:

(a) "MWP" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Water and Power;

(b) "NDFC" means the National Development Finance
Corporation, a body corporate established and existing under the

 
~2-

Borrower’s National Development Finance Corporate Act (No. XIII) of
1973, as amended from time to time; |

(c) "WAPDA" means the Water and Power Development Authority
of Pakistan, a body corporate established and existing under the
Borrower’s Water and Power Development Authority Act (No. XXXI) of
1958, as amended from time to time; |

(d) "PSO" means the Pakistan State Oil Company Limited;

(e) "SBP" means the State Bank of Pakistan;
(f) "PED" means NDFC’s Private Energy Division;
(g) "PPIB" means the Borrower’s Private Power and

Infrastructure Board;

(h) "Fund" means the Borrower’s Long Term Credit Fund
referred to in Section 4.03 of this Agreement;

(i) "Administration Agreement" means the administration
agreement between the Borrower and NDFC dated January 14, 1989, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Administration
Agreement; — . : |

(j) "Statement of Policy" means the statement of policy on
private sector participation in the energy sector as adopted and
issued by the Borrower in March 1994, as amended from time to time};

- (k) “Brochure” means the brochure, referred to in paragraph
B.1 (b) of Schedule 7 to this Agreement, describing the Borrower’s
policies and procedures for evaluating and approving proposals for
private sector participation in the energy and energy-related
infrastructure sector;

(1) "Fund Guidelines" means the Borrower’s guidelines for
the operation of the Fund; | .

— (m) "Sub-loan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Investment
Enterprise for an Investment Project; | |

| (n) "Tnvestment Enterprise" means an enterprise,
incorporated under the Borrower’s Companies Ordinance (No. XLVII) of

 
1984 with at least 51% private sector shareholding, to which the
Borrower proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;

(o) “Investment Project" means a specific development
project in the energy, or energy-related infrastructure, sector to
be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of
a Sub-ioan;

(p) "Hub Power Project" means the 1292 megawatt oil-fired
power plant located in the Borrower’s province of Balochistan, being
one of the investment Projects to be financed under PSEDP and the
Project; |

| (q) "AFL Pipeline Project" means the oil pipeline to be
built from Port Qasim in the Borrower’s province of Sindh to Khalifa
Point in the Borrower’s province of Balochistan, being one of the
Investment Projects to be financed under the Project;

(r) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

(s) "Rs" and "rupees" mean the currency of the Borrower; and

 (t) "PSEDP" means the Bank-financed Private Sector Energy
Development Project (Loan No. 2982-PAK).

ARTICLE II
The | Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of two hundred fifty million dollars ($250,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for: (i) amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of withdrawals made by
an Investment Enterprise under a Sub-loan to meet the reasonable
cost of goods and services required, and interest and other charges
accrued during construction, for the Investment Project in respect
of which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; and (ii)

 
~4-

expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of consultants’ services and training
and incremental staff costs required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. |

(b) The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the National
Bank of Pakistan on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 8 to
this Agreement. | |

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time. |

Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period. |

(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified

Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

(c) For the purposes of this Section:

(i) “Interest Pericd" means a six-month period ending
on the date immediately preceding each date
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
beginning with the Interest Period in which this
Agreement is signed. :

 
-5-

(ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
aS a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)

the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may

be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
interest rates determined otherwise than as
provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

(iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.

(d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows: |

"(a) The Borrower shail pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

| "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each
| Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
| | Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

, | "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
| | commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
calendar year."

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on February 1 and ) August 1 in each year.

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

 
-6-

ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project

section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, or cause
the Project to be carried out, with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
commercial, engineering and public utility practices, and shall
provide or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.

| (b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project, or cause
the Project to be carried out, in accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement. |

Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, Sub-loans will be made in accordance
with procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement. | |

(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to
each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the.
interests of the Borrower and the Bank; (ii) comply with its
obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of
the Project. | | | |

Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:

(a) prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6)
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed
for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, for
the future operation of the Project; — |

 
(b) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan; and

(c) thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into
account the Bank’s comments thereon.

Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, with respect. to the APL
Pipeline Project, ensure that, not later than January 31, 1995 or
such later date as the Bank may agree, (a) all necessary
governmental consents have been given, (b) the right-of-way has been
acquired, and (c) the security package has received the necessary
governmental approvals, all to the satisfaction of the Bank.

ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to monitor the progress of
the Project and of each Investment Project (including its cost and
the benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof and the operation and financial condition of the
Fund and of each Investment Enterprise. |

(b) — The Borrower shall:

(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
the Special Account and the financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income. and
expenses and related statements) of each
Investment Enterprise for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank;

(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year: (A) certified copies of said
financial statements for such year as so audited,
and (B) the report of such audit by said

 
- 8 -

auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements and the audit thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.

({c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;

(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Bank
has received the audit report for the fiscal year
in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;

(iii) enable the Bank’s representative to examine such
records; and

(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements. of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall continuously monitor and
evaluate the application of the policies set forth in the Statement
of Policy and related documents, and shall, not later than June 30,
(1996, modify and refine such policies taking into account the views
of the Bank. .

(b) As part of this monitoring and evaluation, the Borrower
shall review: (i) its policy of exempting the energy and energy-
related infrastructure ‘sector from corporate income tax; and (ii)

 
~ 9 -

the feasibility of rolling over and capitalizing customs duties, the
education levy (Iqra) and import taxes, during the construction
phase, aud of recovering these during the operation phase, of
‘projects.

Section 4.03. The Borrower shall, not later than June 30,
1995, reconstitute its Private Sector Energy Development Fund as an
_ autonomous, commercially-oriented Loan Term Credit Fund, and appoint
a board of directors and managing director for it, all to the
- satisfaction of the Bank.

ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank

Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

(a) For as long as NDFC shall be required to carry out its
responsibilities under paragraph A.3 (a) of Schedule 7 to this
Agreement : :

(i) NDFC shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Administratior, igreement;
or | ,

(ii) as a result of events which have occurred after
the date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that NDFC will be able to perform its
obligations under the Administration Agreement;
or

(iii) the NDFC Act shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of NDFC to
perform any of its obligations under’ the
Administration Agreement; or

(iv) the Borrower or any other authority having

| jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the
‘dissolution or disestablishment of NDFC or for
the suspension of its operations.

 
- 10 -

— (b) The Statement of Policy shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the ability of the Borrower to carry out the Project —
or to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement. |

(c) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any of the Cofinancing Funds
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the agreement providing
therefor, or : |

(B) any loan included in the Cofinancing Funds
shall have become due and payable prior to
the agreed maturity thereof. | |

(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply aif the Borrower estalilishes to the
satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such
_ suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with
the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement. |

Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) (i) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to
the Borrower; | |

(b) the events specified in paragraphs (a) (iii), (a) (iv)
and (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and

| (c) the event specified in paragraph (ce) (4) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of.
paragraph (c) (ii) of that Section. | |

 
- ll -

ARTICLE VI
Effective Date ; Termination

Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

(a) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Cofinancing Agreements, other than the effecti iveness of this
Agreement, have been fulfilled; : |

(b) the Fund Guidelines have been modified, pursuant to
paragraph B.2 (a) of Schedule 7 to this Agreement, to permit the use
of the proceeds of the Loan and, to the extent allowed under the
agreements providing therefor, of the Cofinancing Funds forming part
of the Fund for financing interest and other charges accrued on Sub-
loans during construction of the Investment Projects for which the
Sub-loans shall be made; and

(c) the application of the Statement of Policy has been
extended to the energy-related infrastructure sector so as to enable
the Borrower to perform its obligations under the provisions of
paragraphs A.1 and A. 3 of the Annexure to Schedule 7 to this
Agreement.

Section 6.02. The date thirty (30) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions. . |
-12-.

ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 7.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan,
Economic Affairs and Statistics Division, or any Additional
Secretary, Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section Officer in
that Division of the Borrower is designated as representative of the

Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions. | |

Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Economic Affairs and Statistics Division
Government of Pakistan
Islamabad

Pakistan
Cable address: | | Telex:

- ECONOMIC ECD IV-05-634
Islamabad | |

For the Bank:

International Bank for
| Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433.

United States of America

Cable address: © | Telex:
INTBAFRAD 197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C. 248423 (RCA),

64145 (WUL) or
$2987 (FTCC)

 
- 13 -

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

wf j Diath GdbcANrER

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

HY | D Joserh WOOD

Regional Vice President
South Asia

 
~ 14 -

SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in

Category Dollar Equivalent)

(1) Sub-loans —
co-financed
with JEXIM:

(a) Works a 39,000,000

(b) Equipment 49,000,000

(ce) All risks © 8,000,000
and marine |

insurance ©
(2) Other Sub-loans:
(a) Works 41,000,000

(b) Equipment 82,000,000

4 of
Expenditures

to be Financed

35% -

50% of foreign
expenditures and
50% of local

expenditures (ex-

factory cost)

50% of foreign
expenditures

70%

100% of foreign
expenditures and
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)

 
-~15-

Amount of the |
Loan Allocated —% of

(Expressed in Expenditures
Category Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(3) Interest and ! 25,000,000 100% of such
other charges on | interest and
Sub-loans accrued | charges accrued
during the con- | | on the amounts of
struction of | §ub-loans financed
Investment Projects : out of the pro-

ceeds of the Loan

(4) Institution

building:
(a) Consultants’ 2,000,000 ~— 100%
services and
training ©
(b) Equipment and 1,000,000 — 100% of foreign
materials | | expenditures;
| 100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost); and
70% of other items
procured locally
(ec) Incremental | 3,000,000 90% until December
staff costs | 31, 1995; and 80%
from January 1
through December
31, 1996
TOTAL | 250,000,000
2. For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country = other
than that of the Borrower;
~ 16 -

(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and a |

(c) the term "incremental staff costs" means the salaries
and allowances of staff appointed to positions created in PPIB after
June 30, 1994 and engaged on a full time basis for the purposes of
the Project. | oe

3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

(a) a Sub-loan unless the Sub-loan has been made in
accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and

(b) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $350,000, may be made under Category (4)
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but
after June 30, 1994.

4. The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account in
respect of Part B of the Project to be made on the basis of
Statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods under contracts
not exceeding $200,000 equivalent, for consultants’ services under
contracts not exceeding $100,000, in the case of firms, and $50,000,
in the case of individuals, and for all training and incremental
staff costs, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. |
- 17 -

SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project

The objectives of the Project are: (a) to continue to assist
the Borrower in mobilizing the additional resources required to
develop the energy sector through the participation of the private
sector; and (b) to build on the institutional and policy framework
established by the Borrower to facilitate the participation of the
private sector in the energy sector.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A: | investment Projects

Financing of specific development projects through Sub-loans
to private enterprises in the energy and energy-related
infrastructure sector. a |

Part Bs Institution Building

| Provision of technical and other assistance for: (1) streng-

thening PPIB; and (2) formulating an operational framework for
making, and making, the Fund fully operational as an autonomous,
commercially-oriented financial institution, providing long term
eredit for energy and related infrastructure projects.

¥ * ¥

The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.
Date Payment Due

August 1, 2000
February 1, 2001
August 1, 2001
February 1, 2002
August 1, 2002
February 1, 2003
August 1, 2003
February 1, 2004
August 1, 2004
February 1, 2005
August 1, 2005
February 1, 2006
August 1, 2006

February 1, 2007

August 1, 2007
February 1, 2008
August 1, 2008

February 1, 2009

August 1, 2009

February 1, 2010

August 1, 2010
February 1, 2011
August 1, 2011
February 1, 2012
August 1, 2012
February 1, 2013
August 1, 2013
February 1, 2014
August 1, 2014
February 1, 2015

4

- 18 -

SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule

Payment of Principal

(expressed in dollars)*

4,805,000
4,975,000 —
5,150,000
5,335,000
5,520,000
5,720,000
5,920,000.
6,130,000
6,350,000
6,575,000
6,810,000
7,050,000
7,300,000
7,560,000
7,830,000
8,105,000
8,395,000
8,690,000
9,000,000
9,320,000
9,650,000
9,995,000
10,345,000
10,715,000
. 11,095,000
11,490,000
11,895,000
12,320,000
12,755,000
13,200,000

The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

 
- 19 -

Premiums on Prepayment

Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable

time of prepayment below:

Time of Prepayment

Not more than three years
before maturity

More than three years but

not more than six years

before maturity

More than six years but

not more than 11 years

before maturity ©

More than 11 years but not

more than 16 years
before maturity

More than 16 years but not

more than 18 years
before maturity

More than 18 years before
maturity |

Premium

The interest rate (expressed as
a percentage per annum )
applicable to the Loan on the
day of prepayment multiplied

bys

0.55

0.80

0.90

1.00

 
- 20 -

SCHEDULE 4
Modifications of the General Conditions

For the purposes of this Agreement, the provisions ef the
General Conditions are modified as follows:

(1) The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

(2) In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (1) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

| (3) The words "the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and
the Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to make
withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such
notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled" set forth at the
end of Section 6.03 are deleted and the following is substituted
therefor: .

"or (£) by the date specified in sub-paragraph 5 (b) of
Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement, the Bank shall, in respect
of any portion of the Loan: (i) have received no applications
or requests under subparagraphs (a) or (b) of said paragraph;
or (ii) have denied any such applications or requests, the
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of
the Borrower to submit such applications or requests or to
make withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may be,
with respect to such amount or portion of the Loan. Upon the
giving of such notice, such amount or _ portion of the Loan
shall be cancelled.’

 
- 21 -

SCHEDULE 5

Procedures for, and Terms and Conditions

of, Sub- loans

A. Terms and Conditions
l. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the terms and

conditions of each Sub- loan shall be:

(a) Interest rate:

(i)

in the case of the Sub-loan for the Hub Power —
Project;

(aa)

(bb)

(cc)

during the construction of the Investment

Project for which the Sub-loan has been

made, a fixed rate of 14% per annum;

after completion of construction of such
Investment Project but before all loans
other than the Sub-loan for the Investment
Project which are senior to the Sub-loan

have been repaid, a variable rate, to be

reviewed annually, equal to the greater of
(x) the sum of the prevailing one-year
United States (US) Treasury bond rate plus
the FERI Margin plus a spread of 300 basis
points, and (y) the sum of the prevailing
World Bank Lending Rate plus the FERI
Margin plus a spread of 250 basis points;
and

after repayment of such senior loans and
until the Sub-loan has been fully repaid, a

variable rate, to be reviewed annually,
equal to the greater of (x) the sum of the

prevailing one-year United States (US)
Treasury bond rate plus the FERI Margin

plus a spread of 400 basis points, and (y).

the sum of the prevailing World Bank

Lending Rate plus the FERI Margin plus a

spread of 350 basis points.
~ 22 -

(ii) in the case of all other Sub-loans:

(aa)

(bb)

(cc)

during the construction of the Investment
Project for which the Sub-loan has been
made, a fixed rate equal to the greater of
(x) the sum of the prevailing five-year
United States (US) Treasury bond rate plus
a spread of 200 basis points, and (y) the
sum of the prevailing World Bank Lending
Rate plus a spread of 150 basis points;

after completion of construction of such
Investment Project but before all loans
other than the Sub-loan for the Investment

Project which are senior to the Sub-loan

have been repaid, a variable rate, to be
reviewed annually, equal to the greater of
(x) the sum of the prevailing one-year
United States (US) Treasury bond rate plus
a spread of 300 basis points, and (y) the
sum of the prevailing World Bank Lending
Rate plus a spread of 250 basis points; and

after repayment of such senior loans and
until the Sub-loan has been fully repaid, a
variable rate, to be reviewed annually,
equal to the greater of (x) the sum of the
prevailing one-year United States (US)
Treasury bond rate plus a spread of 400
basis points, and (y) the sum of the
prevailing World Bank Lending Rate Pius a
spread of 350 basis points. |

(iii) For the purposes of this provision:

(aa)

 

“FERI Margin" shall mean the premium
percentage (as quoted by SBP under its
Foreign Exchange Rate Insurance (FERI)
Program) prevailing for one-year dollar
exchange rate insurance for rupees. In the
event SBP no longer provides quotes for
insurance under its FERI Program, the FERI
Margin shall be calculated based on the
premium percentage quotes by the National
Bank of Pakistan (or such other financial
(bb)

~ 23 -

institution mutually designated by the
parties to the Sub-loan) prevailing for
one-year dollar exchange rate insurance for

rupees.

"World Bank Lending Rate" shall mean the
rate as defined in Section 2.05 (a) of this

Agreement.

(b) Amortization
period:

(c) Principal
amount to
be repaid:

up to 23 years,
including a grace
period of up to 8
years

(i) in the case of

the Sub-loan for
the Hub Power
Project, the aggre-

gate equivalent of

the amounts in
various currencies
withdrawn from
the Loan Account
expressed in rupees
determined as of
the respective
dates of with-
drawal; and (ii)
in the case of all
other Sub-loans,
the aggrezate
equivalent of the
amounts in various
currencies with-

drawn from the Loan

Account, calculated

in dollars as of

the respective

dates of withdrawal |

and expressed in
rupees determined
as of the respec-
tive dates of
repayment

 
- 24 -

2. The Borrower shall ensure that: (a) the annual review of
interest rates required to be carried out under paragraph 1(a)
above, in respect of Sub-loans for Investment Projects which have
become operational, will be carried out, in consultation with the
Bank, not later than April 30 of each year; and (b) any adjustment
of such interest rates following such review will be made with
effect from July 1 of such year and will be automatically reflected
in the tariff charged by such Investment Projects for subsequent
sales of electricity to WAPDA and the Karachi Electric Supply
Company (KESC).

3. . The Borrower shall ensure that the proceeds of the
intermediation spread charged on Sub-loans will be utilized as
follows: (a) 25 basis points to be made available to PPIB to cover
the cost of its services under the Project; and (b) the remainder to

be retained by the Fund for purposes ‘08 its future lending
| operations.

Be Procedures
4. No expenditures for goods or works required for an Investment

Project. shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
Loan unless the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
approved by the Bank and such expenditures shall have been made not
earlier than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall
have received the application and information required under
paragraph 4 (a) of this Schedule in respect of such Sub-loan.

5. (a) When presenting a Sub-loan to the Bank for approval, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form
satisfactory to the Bank, together with (i) a description of the
Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project,
including a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan;. (ii) the proposed terms and
conditions of the Sub- loan, including the schedule of amortization
of the Sub-loan; and (iii) such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. —

—(b) Applications made pursuant to the provisions of sub-
paragraph (a) of this paz cagraph | shall be presented to the Bank on or
before June 30, 1998.

6. Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall
obtain, by written contract with the Investment Enterprise or by

 
~ 25 -

other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank, including the right to:

(a) require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and
operate the Investment Project: (i) with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial,
commercial, public utility and managerial standards and to maintain
adequate records; and (ii) without limitation upon the foregoing and
to the extent relevant, in accordance with the provisions of Part B

of, and the Annexure to, Schedule 7 to this Agreement;

(b) require that: (i) the goods and works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods and
works shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the
Investment Project;

(c) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites,
works, plants and construction included in the Investment Project,
the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;

(d) require that: (i) the Investment Enterprise shall take
out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against
such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the
foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to. the
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installation, any
indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable
by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;

(e) obtain all such information as the Borrower and the Bank
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the
administration, operations and financial condition of the Investment
Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the Investment
Project; and |

(£) suspend or terminate the right of the Investment
Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by
such Investment Enterprise to perform its obligations under its
contract with the Borrower.

 
 

~ 26 -

SCHEDULE 6.
Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works

Part As: International Competitive Bidding

Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), and in
accordance with the following additional procedures:

(a) When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to and in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines,
by the minimum amount of time required to complete the evaluation,
obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract.
The bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the
bidding documents or the request for extension shall provide for
appropriate adjustment of the bid price to reflect changes in the
cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. Such
an increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the
bid evaluation. With respect to each contract made subject to the
Bank’s prior review in accordance with the provisions of Part E.1l
(a) of this Section, the Bank*s prior approval will be required for:
(i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the period of
extension exceeds sixty (60) days; and (ii) any subsequent extension
of the bid validity period.

(b) In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with
this Part A, the Borrower shall use, and shall cause Investment
Enterprises to use, the relevant standard bidding documents issued
by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have
agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no
relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank,
the Borrower shall use, and shall cause Investment Enterprises to
use, bidding documents based on other internationally recognized
standard forms agreed with the Bank.

 
- 27 -

Part B: Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Pakistan may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto. |

Part C: Preference for Domestic Contractors

In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, a margin of preference may be granted to
domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto. |

 

Part D: Other Procurement Procedures >
l. Equipment available from a limited number of sources and all

risks and marine insurance may be procured under contracts awarded
through limited international bidding procedures on the basis of
evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list of at least
three qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in
accordance with the procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the.
Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).

2. Equipment and works estimated to cost up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $29,000,000 may be procured
under contracts awarded: (i) with due attention to considerations of
economy and efficiency; (ii) in accordance with sound commercial
practices acceptable to the Bank; and (iii) in accordance with
procedures which meet the requirements of paragraphs 1.4 and 1.5 of
the Guidelines; provided, however, that, with respect to each
Investment Project for which such equipment and works are required,
no such contract shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds
of the Loan if it shall have been awarded to suppliers and/or
contractors who are also the sponsors or shareholders of the
Investment Enterprise carrying out the Investment Project.

3. Equipment and materials required for Part B of the Project may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank. |

 
- 28 .

Part E: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

l. Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

(a) With respect to each contract financed out of a Sub-loan
and estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more, and each —
contract under Part B of the Project estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. |
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.

(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together witn the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 8 to this Agreement.

(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall |
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan
Account are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

(2. The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section IIT. Employment of Consultants

oil. In order to assist the Borrower in (a) appraising, approving
and supervising Investment Projects, and (b) carrying out Part B of
the Project, the Borrower shall employ, or cause to be employed,

consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms. and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the

 
~ 29 -

Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the
Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts using the

standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by
the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with.
the Bank. |

2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts,
shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting
firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b)
contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank
review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the
Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting
firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or
(e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual

consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or
above. | |

 
= 30 -

SCHEDULE 7

Implementation Program

A. Project Imp lementation Arrangements
l. Private Power and Infrastructure Board (PPIB)

(a) PPIB shall be responsible for all policy and regulatory
aspects of the Borrower’s dealings with the private sector fcr the
purposes of PSEDP and the Project, including in particular for: (i)
evaluating and approving proposals submitted by the private sector
for energy and related infrastructure development projects; and (ii)
negotiating agreements with the private sector relating to such
projects. In carrying out its responsibilities, PPIB shall be
assisted in any way necessary by all relevant departments and
agencies of the Borrower, including WAPDA, PSO, SBP and NDFC.

(b) PPIB shall also be assisted by consultants appointed
under the Project, inter alia, in outlining PPIB’s structure, staff
profile and financial and performance framework.

2. Long Term Credit Fund (the Fund)

(a) The Fund shall be responsible for all Financing aspects
of the Borrower’s dealings with the private sector for the purposes
of PSEDP and the Project, including in particular for appraising, |
approving, and supervising the implementation of Investment

Projects. | |

(b) The Fund shall undertake the preparation of its
operational framework under Part B (2) of the Project. To that end,
the Fund shall (i) not later than September 30, 1995, appoint
consultants, with expertise in financial management, accounting and
investment banking, pursuant to paragraph 1 (b) of Section II of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement, and (ii) not later than June 30, 1996,
review with the Bank the recommendations of such consultants and
agree on a timetable, satisfactory to the Bank, for the
implementation of said recommendations as shall be acceptable to the
Bank.

3. National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC)

(a) Until such time as the Fund shall have become fully
operational under Part B (2) of the Project, NDFC shall continue to

 
- 31 -

be responsible for administering the Fund, and for appraising,
approving and supervising the implementation of Investment Projects,
on the terms and conditions, including the fee to be paid to NDFC
for this purpose, set forth in the Administration Agreement.

(b) NDFC shall carry out these responsibilities through the
Private Energy Division (PED). PED shall be assisted, as necessary,
by the consultants employed for this purpose pursuant to paragraph
l (a) of Section II of Schedule 6 to this Agreement, with expertise
in project appraisal, engineering and supervision, and in investment
banking.

B. Investment Projects

l. Evaluation and Approval Criteria for Investment Projects

(a) The Borrower shall not approve any proposal for an
Investment Project unless the Borrower and the Bank are satisfied:

(i) that the price per unit of the energy Produced by
the Investment Project shall be:

(aa) in ‘the case of power, not more than the
| avoidable cost, being the incremental cost
that would be incurred by the Borrower in
generating an additional unit of
electricity;

(bb} in the case of coal, equal to or less than
the economic cost of supply (the long run
marginal cost), expressed in terms of
thermal equivalency; and

(cc) in the case of gas, less than the cost,
| insurance, freight (c.i.f.) price of fuel
oil, expressed in terms of thermal
equivalency; |

(ii) that, if the Investment Project is an energy-
related infrastructure project, its tariff shall
be set at a level sufficient to cover principal
‘and interest on foreign and local loans, fixed
and variable operation and maintenance (0&M)
costs, insurance costs, wages, salaries, benefits
and mandatory social contributions, development

 
~ 32 -

costs, fuel costs and a 25% return on equity
after tax;

(iii) that the Investment Enterprise sponsoring the
Investment Project shall be able to arrange
financing for the Investment Project on a limited
recourse basis; and

(iv) that the Investment Project is technically,
| economically and financially viable.

(b) The Borrower shall continue to make available, for the
use of Investment Enterprises, a brochure, in form and substance
Satisfactory to the Bank, inter alia, describing the policy and
incentive framework for private sector participation in the energy
and energy-related infrastructure sector (including the measures set
forth or referred to in the Annexure to this Schedule), setting out
the guidelines for the preparation, evaluation and approval of
proposals for Investment Projects and including models of the
Implementation and Purchase Agreements referred to in Parts C (ii)
(a) and (b) of the Annexure to this Schedule.

 

 

2. Appraisal, Approval and Supervision of Investment Projects

| (a) The Fund shall continue to use its operational
guidelines, including the guidelines for the appraisal, approval and
supervision of Investment Projects, issued under PSEDP (the Fund
Guidelines), subject to such modifications thereof as shall be
required to be made under Part B (2) of the Project and considered
appropriate by the Borrower and the Bank. |

—(b) With respect to each Investment Project, the Fund shall,
subject to the Fund Guidelines:

(i) require the Investment Enterprise sponsoring the
Investment Project to prepare a detailed
feasibility study covering matters including:
(aa) suitability of site; (bb) availability of —
inputs; (cc) appropriateness of, and proven
experience with, the technology offered; (dd)
project design; (ee) arrangements for detailed
engineering; (ff) cost estimates; (gg)
construction and procurement arrangements; (hh)
arrangements for operation and maintenance; (ii)
arrangements for compliance with environmental

 
~ 33 -

and resettlement standards; (jj) financial
viability of the Investment Project; (kk)
adequacy of the proposed financing and the
incentives to be offered to attract such
financing, including the contractual arrangements
to be made therefor; and (11) the corporate
structure of the Investment Enterprise; and

(ii) review such feasibility study and, on the basis

| thereof, prepare and furnish to the Bank for its
review and approval, pursuant to paragraph 4 (a)
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, a comprehensive
appraisal report on the Investment Project.

3. Financing of Investment Projects

(a) For the purposes of financing Investment Projects, the
Borrower shall use the Fund, into which the proceeds of the Loan and
of the Cofinancing Funds shall be placed. |

(b) The Fund shall provide financing for each Investment
Project, including the Sub-loan approved for such Investment
Project, in amounts sufficient to cover up to 30% of the total cost
of such Investment Project on terms and conditions including those
set forth in Part A of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; provided,
however, that, in exceptional cases and with the prior approval of
the Bank, such limit may be increased to 40% of the total cost of
each Investment Project. :

| (c) The financing required for each Investment Project, in
addition to the financing provided by the Fund, shall be provided by
the Investment Enterprise sponsoring such Investment Project through
equity investment sufficient to cover at least 20% of the cost of
the Investment Project and at least 40% of the cost of the
Investment Project through commercial loans and/or export credits.
raised without the Borrower’s guarantee. To attract such financing,
the Borrower shall take or cause to be taken, with respect to each
Investment Project, the measures described in the Annexure to this
Schedule. _ a

 
-~ 34 -

4. Implementation of Investment Projects

With respect to each Investment Project, the Fund shall
require the Investment Enterprise sponsoring such Investment Project
to engage:

(a) engineering services satisfactory to the Bank for the
preparation of detailed designs and bidding documents and super-
vision of project implementation; and

(b) financial services satisfactory to the Bank for the
preparation of proposals for and assistance in mobilizing project
£inancing.

5. Environmental Standards for Investment Projects

Each Investment Project shall comply with the standards set
forth in the Bank’s "Environmental Guidelines" dated September 1988
and the Bank’s “Occupational Health and Safety Guidelines" dated
September 1988 or other more stringent standards as shall be found
acceptable by the Bank. To that end, the Borrower shall:

(a) specify such standards in the Brochure;

(b) require each Investment Enterprise applying for a Sub-
loan to furnish evidence satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank,
showing that the Investment Project in respect of which the
application has been made would comply with such standards, such
evidence to include an environmental impact assessment and, where
applicable, a resettlement pian for displaced populations, for such
Investment Project; and

(c) in respect of each Investment Project, include both in
the Letter of Support or Letter of Intent referred to in Part C (i)
of the Annexure to this Schedule and the Implementation Agreement
referred to in Part C (ii) (a) of the Annexure to this Schedule a
suitable provision obligating the Investment Enterprise sponsoring
such Investment Project to ensure compliance with such standards.

 
- 35 -

C. Progress Reports

Pursuant to Section 9.07 (a) (iii) of the General Conditions,
the Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank,
within thirty days of the end of each quarter, a report, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank, on the progress of the Project
and each Investment Project during such quarter.

 
- 36 -

Annexure to Schedule 7

Measures Referred to in Paragraph 7 (c) of Schedule 7

to this Agreement to Attract Financing for
Inves tment Projects

A. Incentives for Investment Enterprises

l. With respect to each Investment Project, the Borrower shall,
pursuant to the Statement of Policy, permit the Investment
Enterprise sponsoring such Investment Project: |

(a)

(bd)

(c)

(d)

(e)

to charge a tariff determined in accordance with the
relevant provisions of paragraphs B.1 (a) (i) and (ii)
of this Schedule; |

(i) to repatriate its initial capital investment,
profits and debt service payments under arrangements
with SBP; and (ii) to be compensated, and shall make
suitable arrangements for the Investment Enterprise to
be compensated, for loss of profits, initial capital
investment and capital appreciation resulting from the

failure of any of the Borrower’s institutions to perform

their obligations owed to the Investment Enterprise or
the occurrence of a political event, whose causes are
beyond the control of the Investment Enterprise,

involving the Borrower;

to adjust the price of energy produced or services
provided by the Investment Project in accordance with
agreed adjustment indices to reflect changes in prices
of inputs and exchange rate movements, but not
necessarily so as to reflect changes in any other costs
of the Investment Project;

to take appropriate measures to off-set the effects of
any changes in duties and taxes and other actions taken
by the Borrower or its agencies affecting the cost and
price of energy produced or services provided by the
Investment Project as previously agreed with the
Borrower} | | |

to receive additional finance from the Fund, on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, so as to enable
the Investment Enterprise: (a) to meet up to 80% of any

 
- 37 -

additional financing needs of the Investment Project
arising from an increase in the costs thereof, provided
the Investment Enterprise finances at least 20% of such
needs through equity investment; and (b) to continue to
meet its debt service payments in respect of the
Investment Project in the event of delay in the
completion of construction or the suspension of
operations of the Investment Project resulting from
causes beyond the control of the Investment Enterprise;
and |

(f£) to enter into arrangements under which the commercial
loans and/or export credits obtained for the purposes of
the Investment Project shall have priority over the
financing obtained from the Fund for such purposes in
the allocation and distribution of funds available with
the Investment Enterprise for purposes of making debt-
service payments and/or meeting obligations arising in.
the event of liquidation. |

2. With a view to facilitating the determination and adjustment,
pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs 1 (a) and (c) above, of the
price of electricity produced by Investment Projects in the power
sector, the Borrower shall, having, pursuant to the Statement of
Policy, as of January 1, 1994, set the bench-mark tariff based on
the avoidable cost (as defined in paragraph B.l (a)(i)(aa) of this
Schedule) for the purchase of electricity at high voltage from the
private power sector at the equivalent of $0.065 per kilowatt hour
(kWh) :

(a) review such tariff once every six months, taking into
account changes in the cost of commercial borrowing, foreign
exchange risk cover, operation and maintenance (O&M) and fuel, and,
to that end, continue to provide an explicit outline of the indices |
to be used for such adjustment, with an explanation of the
methodology used for deriving such indices and the approach to be
adopted for their application;

(b) in particular, ensure that the return on the investment
component of the price of electricity produced by the private power
sector shall be indexed to annually compensate for the depreciation
of the rupee relative to the dollar; and

(ce) ensure that any taxes, duties and levies imposed on the
private power sector shall be reflected as pass-through items in the

 
- 38 -

price of electricity produced by such sector and collected from
consumers. | :

3. With a view to facilitating the determination and adjustment,
pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs 1 (a) and (c) above, of the
tariff for non-tradable energy products, other than electricity,
produced by Investment Projects in the energy sector, and services
provided by Investment Projects in the energy-related infrastructure
sector, the Borrower shall:

(a) review such tariff once every six months, taking into
account changes in the cost of commercial borrowing, foreign
exchange risk cover, operation and maintenance (O&M) and fuel, and,
to that end, continue to provide an explicit outline of the indices
to be used for such adjustment, with an explanation of the
methodology used for deriving such indices and the approach to be
adopted for their application;

(b) in particular, ensure that the return on the investment
component of the price of such products and services produced or
provided by the private energy and energy-related infrastructure |
sector shall be indexed to annually compensate for the depreciation
of the rupee relative to the dollar; and

| (c) ensure that any taxes, duties and levies imposed on the
private energy and energy-related infrastructure sector shall be
reflected as pass-through items in the price of such products and
services, and collected from consumers.

B. Incentives for Lenders/Creditors

With respect to each Investment Project, the Borrower shall
require the Investment Enterprise sponsoring such Investment
Project: | |

(i) to assign, as necessary, to its lenders/creditors

the performance guarantee furnished to the

Investment Enterprise by the main contractor

responsible for implementing the Investment

Project, to which such lenders/creditors shall

have recourse in the event of delay in the
implementation of the Investment Project;

 
-~ 39 -

(ii) to provide for its lenders/creditors to have
recourse also to the assets of the Investment
Project;

(iii) to assign to its lenders/creditors the

| performance guarantee furnished to the Investment

Enterprise by the operator (if other than the

Investment Enterprise itself) of the Investment

Project, to which such lenders/creditors shall

have recourse in the event of a shortfall in the
performance of the Investment Project; and

(iv) to establish, and shall enable the Investment
Enterprise to establish, either at the outset of
the financing arrangements for, or at the time of
the commissioning of, the Investment Project,
debt service escrow accounts, which shall at all
times hold sufficient funds to meet debt service
payments in respect of the Investment Project and
other such escrow amounts as shall be required by
the lenders/creditors and approved by the
Borrower. | : |

CC. Contractual Framework for Incentives

 

In order to clearly lay down the mutual rights and obligations
of the Borrower, the Investment Enterprise and the latter’s
lenders/creditors, the Borrower shall with respect to each
Investment Project: | |

(i) before the Investment Enterprise is required to
“prepare and submit a detailed feasibility study
for the Investment Project, issue to the
Investment Enterprise a Letter of Support or
Letter oof Intent, in form and_e substance
satisfactory to the Bank, conveying the
Borrower’s approval of the proposal for the
Investment Project and indicating the Borrower's
willingness to offer the incentives described in
Part A of this Annexure; and |

(ii) ‘at appropriate stages following approval by the
Borrower of the detailed feasibility study for
the Investment Project, require the Investment
Enterprise to enter into the following

 
- 40 -

agreements, each in form and _ substance
satisfactory to the Bank:

(a)

(b)

(c)_

(d)

an Implementation Agreement with the
Borrower, superseding the Letter of Intent
referred to in (i) above and setting forth
the obligations of the Investment
Enterprise, particularly with respect to
the financing, design, construction, and
operation and maintenance of the Investment
Project within mutually agreed parameters
and to mutually acceptable standards and
including the obligation to offer the
incentives described in Part B of this
Annexure, and the obligations of the
Borrower, particularly with respect to the
incentives described in Part A of this
Annexure}

a Purchase Agreement with WAPDA or any
other purchaser of the energy produced or
services provided by the Investment
Project, guaranteed by the Borrower and
setting forth the obligaticns of the
Investment Enterprise, particularly with
respect to the operation of the Investment
Project to mutually acceptable standards,
and the obligations of the purchaser,
particularly with respect to the purchase
of a guaranteed minimum of the energy
produced or services provided by the
Investment Project, the purchase price of
such energy or services, and the adjustment
of such price as provided for pursuant to
Part A.l (c) of this Annexure;

a Construction Agreement with the main
contractor responsible for the construction
and commissioning of the Investment
Project, as approved by the Bank and

including a performance guarantee furnished
by the contractor;

an Operation and Maintenance Agreement with
the operator (if other than the Investment

 
(e)

(f)

- 4l -

Enterprise itself) of the Investment
Project, approved by the Borrower and
setting forth the obligations of the
operator, particularly with respect to the
operation of the Investment Project to the
standards specified in the Implementation
Agreement referred to in (a) above and in
the Purchase Agreement referred to in (b)
above, and including a performance

guarantee furnished by the operator;

in the energy sector, a Fuel Supply

Agreement, to the extent relevant, with the
supplier of fuel required by the Investment

Project, guaranteed by the Borrower and

setting forth the obligations of the
supplier, particularly with respect to the
quality, quantity and frequency of
supplies, and the penalties for inadequate
performance of such obligations; and

other agreements, including a Shareholders’
Agreement (setting forth the rights and
obligations of the shareholders of the
Investment Enterprise), a Loan Agreement or
Agreements (setting forth the obligations
of the Investment Enterprise towards its
lenders/creditors, particularly with
respect to the assignment to the latter of
the performance guarantees furnished by the

Main contractor and the operator of the

Investment Project pursuant to Parts B (i)
and (iii) of this Annexure), and an Escrow
Agreement (establishing and providing for a
debt service escrow and other escrow
accounts pursuant to Part B (iv) of this
Annexure). |

 
 

~ 42 -

SCHEDULE 8
Special Account
l. For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a) the term “eligible Categories" means Categories (1)

through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to

this Agreement;

(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in

respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Investment Projects and for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and | :

(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an
amount equivalent to $1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed
the equivalent of $10,000,000. | |

2. Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively

for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule. :

3. After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the

Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a |

deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts determined
by the Bank to be required to pay for eligible expenditures during
the four months following the date of each request, which amount
shall not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.
On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf

of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the

 
- 43 -

Special Account such amount or amounts as the Bank shall have
determined to be so required.

(b) (i) For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
deposits into the Special Account at such
intervals as the Bank shall specify.

(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
and other evidence required pursuant to para-~
graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
have requested and as shall have been shown by
said documents and other evidence to have been

paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be
withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under
the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.

4. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account: |

(a) aif, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement}; | | |

(b) if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii)
of this Agreement any of the audit reports required to be furnished

 
 

- 44 -

_to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the
records and accounts for the Special Account j

(c) if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant
to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or

-  (d) ~~ once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation. | |

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6. (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

(b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

 
- 4S -

(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

(d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions. |

 
. INTERNATIONAL BANK a |
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT | | A

CERTIFICATE»

I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank

for Reconstruction and Development.

CWE

FOR SECRETARY

 
 
WA Suc tictes Aer mantarrecwraneacve .

Gey
OF rreiCls TAL

BOCK Mi ENTS

    
     

  

Loan 38/2 -2K

 

 

LOAN NUMBER B-102-0

Indemnity Agreement
(Secon? PV Are CéECTOR 4G/UEILG V DEV Leo rN =r)

between

ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated December 20, 1994

ren a

 
LOAN NUMBER B-102-0
INDEMNITY AGREEMENT

AGREEHENT, dated December 20, 1994 between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
PAKISTAN acting by its President (Pakistan) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS (A) Pursuant to a facility agreement (the ECO Facility
Agreement) dated September 30, 1994, between the Hub Power Company Limited
(the Project Company), the financial institutions listed therein as
arrangers, Bank of Tokyo International Limited as ECO agent (the ECO Agent)
and the financial institutions listed therein as ECO lenders (the ECO
Lenders), the ECO Lenders have agreed to make available to the Project
Company a loan in various currencies equivalent to up to US$240,000,000 (the
ECO Loan Amount) to assist in the financing of the power project described
in the ECO Facility Agreement (the Project);

(B) Pakistan has undertaken certain obligations (including payment
obligations) to the Project Company with respect to the Project under an
implementation agreement (the Implementation Agreement) dated August 3, 1992
between the Project Company and Pakistan, as amended, and will also
guarantee to the Project Company under a guarantee (the GOP Guarantee) the
performance of certain obligations (including payment obligations) of The
Pakistan Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA), the Pakistan State
Oil Company Limited (PSO) and the State Bank of Pakistan (SBP) under the
power purchase agreement (the Power Purchase Agreement) dated August 3, 1992
between the Project Company and WAPDA, as amended, the fuel supply agreement
(the Fuel Supply Agreement) dated August ‘3, 1992 between the Project Company
and PSO, as amended, and the exchange risk insurance letters (the Exchange
Risk Insurance Letters) issued by the SBP, respectively;

(C) At the request and with the agreement of Pakistan, the Bank has
agreed to guarantee the repayment of the principal of the ECO Loan Amount
on the terms and conditions set forth in the ECO Guarantee Agreement (the
ECO Guarantee), dated the date hereof between the Bank and the ECO Agent,
but only on condition that Pakistan agree to pay to the Bank all amounts
paid by the Bank directly or indirectly in relation to or arising from the
ECO Guarantee and to undertake such other obligations to the Bank as are set
forth in this Agreement;

(D) In consideration of the Bank’s providing the ECO Guarantee,
Pakistan has agreed to undertake the obligations to the Bank set forth in
this Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

Definitions

Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless otherwise
defined below or in the Preamble to this Agreement or unless the context
otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Preamble to this
Agreement, the Implementation Agreement, the ECO Guarantee and the

 
definitions agreement dated October 2, 1994, between the Project Company and
Citibank International ple as inter-creditor agent (all as in force at
today’s date, and as amended subsequently with the written consent of
Pakistan and the Bank) have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

(a) " assets" includes property, revenues and claims of any kind;

(b) “incurring of debt” includes the assumption and guarantee of debt
and any renewal, extension or modification of the terms of the debt or of
the assumption or guarantee thereof; and

(c) “lien" includes mortgages, pledges, charges, privileges and
priorities of any kind. | |

ARTICLE II
Indemnity by Pakistan to the Bank

Section 2.01. In consideration of the Bank giving the ECO Guarantee,
Pakistan hereby: (a) agrees to reimburse the Bank forthwith on demand or as
the Bank may otherwise direct for any amount paid by the Bank under the ECO
Guarantee, in the currency so paid, or if payment shall have been made in
any currency which the Bank shall have purchased with another currency for
the purposes of such payment, in such other currency, together with interest
thereon at the rate per annum specified by the Bank in respect of such
currency, which rate shall be based on the Bank’s prevailing borrowing cost
in such currency plus the applicable margin over such cost, from the date
such payment is made by the Bank until such amount is paid; (b) agrees to
indemnify the Bank on demand in respect of all actions, proceedings,
liabilities, claims, losses, damages, costs and expenses suffered or
incurred by the Bank directly or indirectly in relation to or arising out
cf the ECO Guarantee (except as otherwise provided in Section 5.02 (i)
hereof); (c) irrevocably authorizes the Bank to comply with any Demand
Notices served on the Bank pursuant to the ECO Guarantee and make any
payments which may be due from or claimed or made upon the Bank under the
ECO Guarantee (the Bank shall promptly notify Pakistan of any such demand,
but failure to give such notice shall in no way affect the Bank’s obligation
to make payment under the ECO Guarantee or Pakistan’s okiigation to
reimburse or indemnify the Bank pursuant to this Agreement) and agrees that
it shall not be incumbent on the Bank to enquire whether or not any
statements in such Demand Notice are in fact correct; and (da) agrees that
any such Demand Notice shall, as between Pakistan and the Bank, be
conclusive evidence that the demand is properly made and payment is properly
due. Following the notification to Pakistan of the receipt by the Bank of
any Demand Notice, Pakistan may investigate the validity of the statements
in such Demand Notice and take such actions as Pakistan may see fit against
the Project Company, the ECO Agent and the ECO Lenders in respect thereof;
all without prejudice to the Bank’s obligations under the ECO Guarantee to
make a payment in respect of such Demand Notice (which the Bank will
endeavor to make no earlier than five business days prior to the Grace
Period End Date in respect of such Demand Notice (being a date approximately
60 days after the date of such Demand Notice)) and Pakistan’s obligations
in relation to such Demand Notice under this Agreement . The obligations of
-3-

Pakistan hereunder shall apply notwithstanding that Pakistan or any other
Public Sector Entity disputes the validity of any such Demand Notice or the
accuracy or correctness of any fact or figures stated therein.

Section 2.02. (a) The obligations of Pakistan under this Agreement
shall not be discharged except by performance and then only to the extent
of such performance. Such obligations shall not be subject to any prior
notice to, demand upon or action against the Project Company or any prior
notice to, or demand upon, Pakistan with regard to any failure by the
Project Company to pay any amount in respect of which a Demand Notice is
served on the Bank pursuant to the ECO Guarantee. Such obligations shall
not be impaired by any of the following: (i) any extension of time,
forbearance, concession or other indulgence given to the Bank, the Project
Company, the ECO Agent, the ECO Lenders or any other person; (ii) any
variation of the ECO Guarantee (except one which would materially increase
the obligations of Pakistan under this Agreement), the ECO Facility
Agreement, any Project Document or any other related agreement; (iii) any
assertion of, or failure to assert, or delay in asserting, any right, power
er remedy against the Project Company or in respect of any security for the
ECO Loan Amount; or (iv) any other circumstances which would or might (but
for this provision) constitute a discharge or defense of Pakistan.

(b) The Bank may at any time, without thereby discharging, impairing
or otherwise affecting any rights, powers and remedies hereby created or
conferred upon it by this Agreement, the ECO Facility Agreement, any Project
Document or any other related agreement or by law: (i) offer or agree to
or enter into any agreement for the extension or variation of the ECO
Guarantee (except one which would materially increase the obligations of
Pakistan under this Agreement), the ECO Facility Agreement, any Project
Document or any other related agreement; or (ii) offer or give or agree to
give any time or other indulgence to any other person or entity from whom
it may seek reimbursement in respect | of sums paid out by the Bank under the
ECO Guarantee. | |

(c) Any rights conferred on the Bank by this Agreement shall be in.
addition to, and not in substitution for or derogation of, any other right
which the Bank may at any time have to seek, from Pakistan or any other
person or entity, reimbursement of or indemnification against payments made
or liabilities incurred under the ECO Guarantee.

(a) The Bank shall not be obliged before taking steps to enforce any
rights conferred on it by this Agreement or exercising any of the rights,
powers and remedies conferred upon the Bank by this Agreement, the ECO
Guarantee, the ECO Facility Agreement, any Project Document or any other
related agreement or by law: (i) te take action or obtain judgment in any
court against any other person (including persons from whom it may seek
reimbursement in respect of sums paid out under the ECO Guarantee); or (ii)
to enforce or seek to enforce any other rights it may have against I Pakistan
or its rights against any other person. |

Section 2.03. No delay in exercising, or omission to exercise, any
right, power or remedy accruing to any party under the ECO Facility
Agreement, any Project Document or any other related agreement, the ECO
Guarantee or this Agreement upon any default shall impair any such right,
power or remedy or be construed to be a waiver thereof or any acquiescence

 
4-

in such default. No action of such party in respect of any default, or any
acquiescence by it in any default, shall affect or impair any right, power
or remedy of such party in respect of any other or subsequent default.

Section 2.04. Any payment required to be made by Pakistan pursuant
to the terms of this Agreement shall be:

(a) paid at such places : as the Bank shall reasonably request;

(b) made in such manner, and in currencies acquired in such manner,
as shall be permitted under the laws applicable to the making of such
payment and effecting the deposit of such currencies to the account of the
Bank with a depository designated by the Bank for this purpose;

(c) paid without any restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
territory of, Pakistan; and |

(d) applied first, to pay all interest and other charges due to the
Bank and second, after such interest and other charges | are paid, to pay all
other amounts then due under this Agreement. |

Sector 2.05. If and to the extent Pakistan makes any payment under
this Agreement in respect of amounts paid by the Bank under the ECO
Guarantee, Pakistan shall be entitled to the Bank’s rights of subrogation
set forth in the ECO Guarantee in respect of such amount, and any waiver by
the Bank of such rights of subrogation (which the Bank may exercise in its
sole discretion) shall be binding on Pakistan and, in the case of such
waiver, the Bank accepts that in calculating the Termination Amount under
the Implementation Agreement such Termination Amount is reduced by the
amount of such payment by Pakistan under this Agreement.

ARTICLE III |
Project-Related Covenants

Section 3.01. (a) Pakistan and the Bank shall cooperate fully to
assure that the Project will be accomplished. (To that end, Pakistan and the
Bank shall: | |

(i) from time to time, at the request of the other, exchange
views with regard to the progress of the Project and
related facilities and the performance of their
respective obligations under this Agreement, and furnish
to the other party all such information as it shall
| reasonably request; and

(ii) promptly inform each other of any condition which
| | interferes with the matters referred to in paragraph (4)
above. |

(b) Pakistan shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
representatives of the Bank to visit any part of its territory for purposes
related to the Project, the ECO Guarantee and this Agreement.

 
-5—

Section 3.02. Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under this Agreement, Pakistan hereby unconditionally undertakes
to the Bank punctually to perform all of its obligations under the
Implementation Agreement and the GOP Guarantee and to cause WAPDA, PSO and
SBP punctually to perform all of their obligations under the Power Purchase
Agreement, Fuel Supply Agreement and Exchange Risk Insurance Letters,
respectively.

Section 3.03. Pakistan shall notify the Bank prior to agreeing to any
amendment, waiver or other change to the Implementation Agreement or the GOP
Guarantee and shall obtain the written consent of the Bank prior to agreeing
to any amendment, waiver or other change to the Implementation Agreement or
the GOP Guarantee which would or could materially affect the rights or
obligations of the Bank under the ECO Guaraitee. Without limiting the
foregoing, Pakistan shall obtain the written consent of thr Bank prior to
giving any notice to the Project Company not to obtain insurance under
Clause 17.5.5 of the Implementation Agreement.

: Section 3.04. Pakistan shall not take any action which would prevent.
or interfere with the performance by WAPDA, PSO or SBP of any of its
obligations under the Power Purchase Agreement, Fuel Supply Agreement or
Exchange Risk Insurance Letters, respectively, and shall cause WAPDA,- PSO
and SBP to notify the Bank prior to agreeing to any amendment, waiver or
ether change to the Power Purchase Agreement, Fuel Supply Agreement or
Exchange Risk Insurance Letters, respectively, and to obtain the written
consent of the Bank prior to agreeing to any amendment, waiver or other
change to the Power Purchase Agreement, Fuel Supply Agreement or Exchange
Risk Insurance Letters, respectively, which would or could materially affect
the rights or obligations of the Bank under the ECO Guarantee including,
without limitation, any assignment, transfer, novation or other disposition
of any of such entities’ respective rights or obligations under the Power
Purchase Agreement, Fuel Supply Agreement or Exchange Risk Insurance
Letters. OS

Section 3.05. Pakistan shall promptly inform the Bank of any
Exceptional Event, request from the Project Company for Special Temporary |
Funding, request from the Project Company for Deficit Funding, Company Event
of Default, GOP Event of Default, Lenders’ Security Event, Preliminary
Termination Notice or Termination Notice from the Project Company under the
Implementation Agreement and other event or circumstance which could
adversely affect Pakistan’s ability to perform its obligations under the
Implementation Agreement or the GOP Guarantee or the ability of WAPDA, PSO
or SBP to perform its obligations under the Power Purchase Agreement, Fuel
Supply Agreement or Exchange Risk Insurance Letters, respectively. Upon the
occurrence of a Company Event of Default, Pakistan shall, if so requested
by the Bank, give a Preliminary Termination Notice to the Project Comvany
in accordance with Clause 20.1 of the Implementation Agreement where
permitted to do so under said Clause. Following the giving of any such
Preliminary Termination Notice, Pakistan shall, if so requested by the Bank,
give a Termination Notice to the Project Company in accordance with Clause
20.3 of the Implementation Agreement where permitted to do so under said
Clause.

Section 3.06. Pakistan shall take all actions within its power to
remedy each GOP Event of Default and Lenders’ Security Event under the
-6—

Implementation Agreement and each Guarantee Shari’ah Event under the ECO
Guarantee.

Section 3.07. Pakistan shall obtain the written consent of the Bank
prior to permitting or agreeing to the conversion of the Complex to a
natural gas firing power plant pursuant to Clause 23 of the Implementation
Agreement. |

Section 3.08. Pakistan shall approve any Nominated Company that has
been appointed in accordance with Clause 16.3 of the Implementation
Agreement entering into such novation as the Bank may require in respect of
the Direct Agreement. |

Section 3.09. Pakistan shall not create or permit to exist or occur,
and shali procure that no Public Sector Entity shall create or permit to
exist or occur, any Indemnified Event. If an Indemnified Event exists or
occurs, Pakistan shall take all actions within ite power to remedy and cure,
or to procure that another Public Sector Entity remedy and cure, such
Indemnified Event. |

Section 3.10. Pakistan shall not attach to any Consent subsequent to
its grant any terms or conditions which materially and adversely affect the
enjoyment by the Bank of any of its rights or the performance by the Project
Company of any of its obligations under the ‘Security Documents.

Section 3.i1. Pakistan shall notify the Bank of (and shall keep the
Bank informed of) any material plans Pakistan may have to privatize any or
all of WAPDA, PSO and SBP. |

ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants .

Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making loans to
or in providing guarantees» for loans to, or with the guarantee of, its
members not to seek, in normal circumstances, specific security from the
member concerned but to ensure that no other external debt shail have
priority over its loans and guarantees in the allocation, realization or
distribution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit
of such member. |

{i) To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public assets
(as hereinafter def ined) , a8 security for any external debt, which will or
might result in a priority for the benefit of the creditor of such external
debt in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange,
such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at
no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the amounts payable by
Pakistan under this Agreement, which, for purposes of this Section only, |
shall be deemed to he equal to the ECO Loan Amount, and Pakistan, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express
provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien
created on assets of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, |
Pakistan shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the amounts
-7~

payable by Pakistan under this Agreement by an equivalent lien on other
public assets, satisfactory to the Bank.

(ii) As used in this paragraph, the term “public assets" means assets
Of Pakistan, of any political or administrative subdivision thereof and of
any entity owned or controlled by, or operating for the account or benefit
of, Pakistan or any such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a central bank
or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for Pakistan.

(b) The foregoing provisions of this Section shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as
security for payment of the purchase price of such property or as security
for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of financing the purchase
of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after the date on which it is originally incurred. |

Section 4.02. (a) All amounts required to be paid under this
Agreement shall be paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes
levied by, or in the territory of, Pakistan.

(Db) This Agreement shall be free from any taxes levied by, or in the
territory of, Pakistan on or in connection with the execution, delivery or
registration thereof. | a

Section 4.03. Pakistan shall furnish to the Bank all such information
as the Bank shall reasonably request with respect to financial and economic
conditions in its territory, including its balance of payments and its
external debt as well as that of its political or administrative
subdivisions and of any entity owned or controlled by, or operating for the
account or benefit of, Pakistan or any such subdivision, and of any
institution performing the functions of a central bank or exchange
stabilization fund, or similar functions, for Pakistan. :

ARTICLE Vv

Enforceability of this Agreement;
Arbitration

Section 5.01. The rights and obligations of Pakistan and the Bank
under this Agreement shall be valid and enforceable in accordance with their
terms notwithstanding the law of any State, or political subdivision thereof
to the contrary. Neither Pakistan nor the Bank shall be entitled in any
proceeding under this Article to assert any claim that any provision of this
Agreement is invalid or unenforceable because of any provision of the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.

Section 5.02. (a) Any controversy between the parties to this |
Agreement, and any claim by any such party against any other such party
arising under this Agreement which has not been settled by agreement of the
parties, shall be submitted to arbitration by an Arbitral Tribunal as
hereinafter provided. . | | oF

 
-8-

(b) The parties to such arbitration shall be Pakistan on the one side
and the Bank on the other side. |

(c) The Arbitral Tribunal shall consist of three arbitrators
appointed as follows: one arbitrator shall be appointed by Pakistan; a
second arbitrator shall be appointed by the Bank; and the third arbitrator
(hereinafter sometimes called the Umpire) shall be appointed by agreement
of the parties or, if they shall not agree, by the President of the
International Court of Justice or, failing appointment by said President,
by the Secretary-General of the United Nations. If either side shall fail
to appoint an arbitrator, such arbitrator shall be appointed by the Umpire.
In case any arbitrator appointed in accordance with this Section shall
resign, die or become unable to act, a successor arbitrator shall be
appointed in the same manner as herein prescribed for the appointment of the
original arbitrator and such successor shall have all the powers and duties
of such original arbitrator. |

(ad) An arbitration proceeding may be instituted under this Section
upon notice by the party instituting such proceeding to the other party.
Such notice shall contain a statement setting forth the nature of the
controversy or claim to be submitted to arbitration and the nature of the
relief sought and the name of the arbitrator appointed by the party
instituting such proceeding. Within thirty days after such notice, the
other party shall notify to the party instituting the proceeding the name
of the arbitrator appointed by such other party.

(e) If, within sixty days after the notice instituting the
arbitration proceeding, the parties shall not have agreed upon an Umpire,
any party may request the appointment of an Umpire as provided in paragraph
(c) of this Section. .

(£) The Arbitral Tribunal shall convene at such time and place és
shall be fixed by the Umpire. MThereafter, the Arbitral Tribunal shall
determine where and when it shall sit. |

(g) The Arbitral Tribunal shall decide all questions relating to its
competence and shall, subject to the provisions of this Section and except
as the parties shall otherwise agree, determine its procedure. All decisions
of the Arbitral Tribunal shall be by majority vote. |

(h) The Arbitral Tribunal shall afford to all parties a fair hearing
and shall render its award in writing. Such award may be rendered by
@efault. An award signed by a majority of the Arbitral Tribunal shall
constitute the award of such Tribunal. A signed counterpart of the award
shall be transmitted to each party. Any such award rendered in accordance
with the provisions of this Section shall be final and binding upon the
parties to this Agreement. Each party shall abide by, and comply with any
such award rendered by the Arbitral Tribunal in accordance with the
provisions of this Section.

(i) The parties shall fix the amount of the remuneration of the
arbitrators and such other persons as shall be required for the conduct of
the arbitration proceedings. If the parties shall not agree on such amount
before the Arbitral Tribunal shall convene, the Arbitral Tribunal shall fix
such amount as shall be reasonable under the circumstances. Pakistan and
-~9—

the Bank shall each defray its own expenses in the arbitration proceedings.
The costs of the Arbitral Tribunal shall be divided between and borne
equally by Pakistan and the Bank. Any question concerning the division of
the costs of the Arbitral Tribunal or the procedure for payment of such
costs shall be determined by the Arbitral Tribunal.

(3) The provisions for arbitration set forth in this Section shall
be in lieu of any other procedure for the settlement of controversies —
between the parties to this Agreement or any claim by any such party against
any other such party arising hereunder.

(k) If, within thirty days after counterparts of the award shall be
delivered to the parties, the award shall not be complied with, any party
may : (4) enter judgment upon, or institute a proceeding to enforce, the
award in any court of competent jurisdiction against any other party; (ii)
enforce such judgment by execution; or (iii) pursue any other appropriate
remedy against such other party for the enforcement of the award and the
provisions of this Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Section
shall not authorize any entry of judgment or enforcement of the award
against any party that is a member of the Bank except as such procedure may
be available otherwise than by reason of the provisions of this Section.

(1) Service of any notice or process in ccnnection with any
proceeding under this Section or in sonnection with any proceeding to
enforce any award rendered pursuant to this Section may be made in the
manner provided in Section 7.01 hereof. The parties to this Agreement waive
any and all other requirements for the service of any such notice or
process.

ARTICLE VI
Effective Date

Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect upon
signature. | |

ARTICLE Vil
Miscellaneous Provisions |

Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given
or made under this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request
shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered
by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s
address as epecified in this Agreement or at such other address as such
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request.

| Section 7.02. Pakistan shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence
of the authority of the person or persons who will, on behalf of Pakistan,
take any action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
-10—~

or executed by Pakistan under this Agreement and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person. |

Section 7.03. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, pursuant to this Agreement,
on behalf of Pakistan, may be taken or executed by the representative of
Pakistan designated in Section 7.05 hereof for the purposes of this Section
or any person thereunto authorized in writing by such representative. Any
modification or amplification of the provisions of this Agreement may be
agreed to on behalf of Pakistan by written instrument executed on behalf of
Pakistan by the representative so designated or any person thereunto
authorized in writing by such representative; provided that, in the opinion
of such representative, such modification or amplification is reasonable
under the circumstances and will not substantially increase the obligations
of Pakistan under this Agreement. The Bank may accept the execution by such
representative or other person of any such instrument as conclusive evidence
that in the opinion of such representative any modification or amplification
ef the provisions of this Agreement effected by such instrument is
reasonable under the circumstances and will not substantially increase the
obligations of Pakistan hereunder. .

Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts,
each of which shall be an original. | 7 .

Section 7.05. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan, Economic |
Affairs Division, or any Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Deputy
Secretary or Section Officer in that Division is hereby designated as
representative of Pakistan for the purposes of section 7.03 above.

Section 7.06. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 7.01 above: |

For Pakistan:

Economic Affairs Division |

Islamabad

Pakistan | |

Cable address: | Telex:
ECONOMIC ECDIV-05-634

Islamabad
-1i-

For the Bank:

International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development

1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address: | Telex:
INTBAFRAD | . 197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C | | . 248423 (RCA)

: 64145 (WUI)
82987 (FICC)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.

ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

HA CHAZAN FAR
ay [o/ AGHA GHAZA FAK

#uthorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

/s/ DP. Toserit WooP

By | |
Authorized Representative
| INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

CERTIFICATE

[ hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank

for Reconstruction and Development.

©. CL

FOR SECRETARY
