Public Disclosure Authorized

%
. .
: .
, he:
‘ a
—_ .

Public Disclosure Authorized

LOAN NUMBER 3727-0 CHA

Loan Agreement

(Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Project)
between
 PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and

_ INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated Ju~> 2 , 1994

 

 

 
LOAN NUMBER 3727-0 CHA

| __ LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated ~4-rrerx 2_ , 1994, between PEOPLE’S
REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project; | |

(B) Parts A,B,C and D.1 of the Project will be carried out
by Yellow River Water and Hydropower Development Corporation (YRWHDC)
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to YRWHDC a portion of the proceeds of
the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and YRWHDC;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement: .

(a) The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

| (bd) In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-
paragraph {1l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
under which any further withdrawals under the
Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of
Article III, Section 3 of the Bank’s Articles of
Agreement." |
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

(a) "Charter of YRWHDC" means the Charter of the Yellow River
Water and Hydropower Development Corporation, as approved by Ministry
of Water Resources (MWR) in April, 1993. |

(b) "Environmental Management Plan" means the environmental
management plan relating to the Project prepared by YRWHDC and dated
April 15, 1993 as the same may be supplemented and amended from time
to time with the approval of the Bank.

(c) "MWR" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Water Resources,
and any successor thereto. !

(da) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and Yellow River Water and Hydropower Development Company (YRWHDC)
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to
the Project Agreement.

(e) "Project Provinces" means Henan Province and Shanxi
Province. | |
(f) "Resettlement Plan" has the same meaning as in the

Resettlement Project Development Credit Agreement.

(g) "Resettlement Project Development Credit Agreement" means
the Development Credit Agreement between the Borrower and the Inter-
national Development Association for the Xiaoclangdi Resettlement
Project, of even date herewith.

(h) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

(i) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower (acting through MWR) and YRWHDC
pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to

the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.

 
(3) | "YRCC" means Yellow River Conservancy Commission, a
commission established within MWR to manage water resource management
and flood control along the Yellow River.

(k)  "YRWHDC” means Yellow River Water and Hydropower Develop-
ment Corporation (sometimes also called "Yellow River Water and
Hydroelectric Power Development Corporation”) a state owned corpora-
tion incorporated and existing under the laws of the Borrower and
under the leadership of MWR. :

ARTICLE ITI
The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of four hundred and sixty million dollars ($460,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule i to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of
interest and other charges on the Loan.

(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain a special deposit account with a bank and on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection
against set off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments
out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

(c) On each of the semiannual interest payment dates speci-
fied in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the
amounts required to pay, on such date, interest and other charges on
the Loan accrued and payable on or before the date set forth, and up
to the amount allocated, in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such
Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Borrower and the Bank.

 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Quali-
fied Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified —
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding
Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such.
Interest Period. |

{b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrow-
ings determined in respect of such Semester.

(c) For the purposes of this Section:

(1) "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
. on the date immediately preceding each date
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
beginning with the Interest Period in which this
Agreement is signed.

(ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
aS a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing ~
interest rates determined otherwise than as
provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

(iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the—
second six months of a calendar year.

 
-5-

(d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
menths’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows: ©

"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the prin-
cipal amount outstanding during the preceding
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applica-
ble during such Interest Period.”

"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each
Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of such Quarter."

"(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period.
commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or
October 1 in a calendar year." |

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. | |

ARTICLE IIt
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the

objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end:

(i) without limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause YRWHDC to carry out Parts

 
-6-

A,B,C and D.1 of the Project and to perform all
its obligations set forth in the Project Agree-
ment, shall take or cause to be taken all action,
including the timely provision of funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable YRWHDC to perform such
obligations (and to enable the Borrower to per-
form its obligations with respect to the Project
under this Agreement), and shall not take or per-
mit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance; and |

(11) the Borrower (acting through MWR) shall carry out
or cause to be carried out Part D.2 of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, engi-
neering, environmental and financial practices
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required
for such Parts of the Project.

(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower (acting through MWR) shall carry out Part
D.2 of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement and shall otherwise comply with
the provisions in that Schedule.

(c) The Borrower (through MOF and, in turn, through MWR)
shall relend the portion of the proceeds of the Loan related to Parts
A,B,C and D.1 of the Project to YRWHDC under a subsidiary loan agree~
ment to be entered into between the Borrower (acting through MWR) and
YRWHDC, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by
the Bank which shall include the following principal terms and
conditions: .

(i) repayment within 20 years, including seven years
of grace with amortization based on level repay-
ments of principal;

(ii) interest to be paid at the rate specified in
Section 2.05 of the Loan Agreement;

(iii) commitment charges to be paid at the rate of
0.75% per annum; and
(iv) foreign exchange risk to be borne by YRWHDC.

(da) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan,
and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the consultants’ services required for Part D.2 of the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A,B,C and D.1
of the Project shall be carried out by YRWHDC pursuant to Section
2.03 of the Project Agreement.

Section 3. 04. Without limiting the generality of Section 3.03,
the Borrower shall under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank cause
the dam and related structures constructed under the Project, and the
Sanmenxia dam and related structures which have already been cons-_
tructed to be periodically inspected by the Borrower and by indepen-
dent experts in accordance with sound engineering practice in order
to determine whether there are any deficiencies in the condition of
such structures, or in the quality and adequacy of maintenance or
methods of operation of the same, which may endanger their safety.
To this end, the Borrower shall propose to the Bank appropriate
arrangements for the Bank’s review no later than one year before the
completion of the dam and related structures constructed under the
Project.

Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:

(a) implement the Resettlement Plan in a manner acceptable
to the Bank; |

(b) ensure that the coffer dam constructed under the Project
is not closed unless the progress of the resettlement program under
the Resettlement Plan remains in line with the progress of the
construction program under Part A of the Project, and, to that end,
if the construction of the dam is progressing faster than the rate
of construction progress anticipated in the Resettlement Plan by four
months or more, the Borrower shall make revisions in the schedule for
resettlement and construction, satisfactory to the Bank; and

(c) ensure that the water level of the dam constructed under
the Project is not permitted to rise beyond 265 meters before the
final details of the resettlement arrangements proposed for those who
are to be resettled in the last stage (2010-2011) under the Resettle-
ment Plan have been provided to, and approved by, the Bank.

Section 3.06. The Borrower shall construct and equip, or shall
cause to be constructed and equipped, power transmission lines and
associated power transmission stations to carry electricity from the
power station included in the Project to Shanxi Province and to Henan
Province, and shall do so in sufficient time to enable the transmis-—
sion of power from the power station as soon as the power station is
commissioned.

ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expen-
ditures in respect of Part D.2 of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

(b) The Borrower shall:

(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
- paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing princi-
ples consistently applied, by independent audi-
tors acceptable to the Bank;

(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year, the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

 
(iii)

furnish to the Bank such other information con-
cerning said records and accounts and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time rea-
sonably request.

(Cc) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expen-
diture, the Borrower shall: |

(i)

(ii)

(iii)

(iv)

maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;

retain, until at least one year after the Bank
has received the audit report for the fiscal year
in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
Account or payment out of the Special Account was
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
such expenditures; |

enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
records; and

ensure that such records and accounts are includ-
ed in the annual audit referred to in paragraph
(b) of this Section and that the report of such
audit contains a separate opinion by said audi-
tors as to whether the statements of expenditure
submitted during such fiscal year, together with
the procedures and internal controls involved in
their preparation, can be relied upon to support
the related withdrawals. 7

ARTICLE V

Remedies of the Bank

Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

(a) | YRWHDC shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement.

 
- 10 -

(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that YRWHDC will be able to perform
its obligations under the Project Agreement.

(c) The Charter of YRWHDC shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adver-
sely the ability of YRWHDC to perform any of its obligations under
the Project Agreement.

(ad) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of YRWHDC or for the suspension of its operations.

(e) The Borrower shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Resettlement Project Development Credit
Agreement.

Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

(a) any event specified in paragraph (a), (C) or (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a
period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Bank to the Borrower; and |

| (b) any event specified in paragraph (d) of this Agreement
shall occur. | | |
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional

conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

(a) the Borrower’s State Council shall have approved this
Agreement; , | |
(b) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf

of the Borrower and YRWHDC; and —
-jll1-

(c) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Resettlement Project Development Credit Agreement shall have been
fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this
Agreement. | | .

Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Bank:

(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by YRWHDC, and is legally binding upon YRWHDC in accordance
with its terms; and | : |

(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and YRWHDC and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and YRWHDC in accordance with its terms.

Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions. :

ARTICLE VII

Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses

‘

Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower 1s
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
‘purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: |

For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China

Cable address: Telex:

FINANMIN | 22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing China

 
-12-

For the Bank:

International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development

1818 H Street, N.W. |

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address: Telex:
INTBAFRAD 248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C. 82987 (FTCC)

64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
- 13-

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

sf Le Dare

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR ~
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Mf Gener 6 Kany
By
| Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
1.

financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,

-14-

SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be

the allocation of the

amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

Category

Works

Goods

(a) Equipment and
materials

(b) Vehicles

Consultants’
Services

Overseas and local
technical assist-

ance, studies,

and training

Interest and other

charges under the
Loan accrued on or |
before December 31,
1999

Amount of the

Loan Allocated

(Expressed in
Dollar .

__Equivalent) _

386,000,000

4,900,000

2,530,000

12,350,006

1,200,000

30,000,000

% of
Expenditures |
to be
Financed

100% of foreign
expenditures, and
20% of local
expenditures

100% of foreign

expenditures,

100% of local ex-
penditures (ex-
factory cost), and
75% of local expen-
ditures for other
items procured
locally

100%
100%
Amounts due pursuant

to Section 2.02 (c)
of this Agreement

 
-~15-

Amount of the

Loan Allocated % of
(Expressed in | Expenditures
Dollar | to be —
Category Equivalent) Financed
(6) Unallocated 23,020,000
TOTAL: — 460,000,000
2. For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower; and

(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not to exceed $24,000,000, may be made in respect
of Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after June 15, 1993.

4. The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under
contracts for goods and works not exceeding $400,000 equivalent, and

for training, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.

 
- 16 -

SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project

The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower
through: (a) introduction of flood control in the lower reaches of
the Yellow River Basin; (b) control of siltation in the 800 kilometer
downstream channel of the river and prevention of further aggrega-
tion; (c) provision of water for assured irrigation, and water supply
for cities and industries; and (dad) generation of hydropower to sup-
plement the base load of thermal power stations in Henan Province and
the Central China Power Grid. |

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives. |

Part A: Xiaolangdi Dam
1. | Construction and equipping of an earth and rockfill dam (with

a sloping core) with a maximum height of 154 meters, a crest length
of 1,370 meters and a volume of about 47 million cubic meters on the
Yellow River at Xiaolangdi in Henan Province, about 130 kilometers —
downstream from the Sanmenxia Dam. 3

2. Construction and equipping of a common intake structure consis—-
ting of nine large intake towers feeding sixteen large diameter
tunnels and a surface spillway and emergency spillway (for river
diversion, flood handling, sediment management and power releases),
discharging into a common plunge pool.

Part B: Power Supply

Construction and equipping of an underground powerhouse,
housing six 300 megawatt power generating units with associated
switchyards and transformers. |

Part Cs: Environment

Carrying out an environmental management plan in connection
with the construction and operation of the Xiaolangdi dam.

 
- 17 =-

Part D:; Institutional Support

1. Strengthening YRWHDC’s management capability to implement the

Project and operate the Project facilities through provision of
training and consultants’ services in areas including design and
construction management, contract management, project scheduling,
cost control, claims management, financial management, management
information systems, organizational support, corporate planning and
personnel management.

2. Strengthening the management capability of MWR and YRCC to
support the reform process in the water sector through provision of
training and consultants’ services and undertaking studies in:
international accounting procedures; sustainable resource mobiliza-
tion for water resources projects; water pricing; water licensing;
effective river basin organization; and water dispatching systems for

basins. | |

The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
~ 18 -

SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule

Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due (expressed in dollars)*

On each January 1 and July 1

beginning January 1, 2002

through January 1, 2014 17,690,000
and
on July 1, 2014 17,750,000
x The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents

determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General
Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

 
~ 19 —

Premiums on Prepayment

Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

Time of Prepayment Premium

The interest rate
(expressed as a
percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan
on the day of prepayment
multiplied by: |

Not more than three years 0.15.
before maturity |

More than three years but | 0.30
| not more than six years
before maturity

More than six years but | | QO.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity

More than 11 years but not | 0.80
more than 16 years |
before maturity >

More than 16 years but not © | 0.90
more than 18 years before maturity

More than 18 years before 1.00
maturity | | :
- 20 -

SCHEDULE 4
Consultants’ Services

In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out of the Project,
the Borrower (acting through MWR) shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981. For complex, time-based assignments, the
Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the
Bank.

 
- 21 -

SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program

1. ‘The Borrower shall maintain its central project coordinating
group and cause the Project Provinces to maintain their respective
project leading groups and project offices with composition,
responsibilities and functions acceptable to the Bank.

2. The Borrower shall ensure that all training and technical
assistance under Part D.2 of the Project, including local and
overseas training, study tours and consultants’ services are carried
out in accordance with a program satisfactory to the Bank.

3. The Borrower shall do all things necessary to ensure that the
relevant electric power companies in the Project Provinces enter into
power sales agreements with YRWHDC in accordance with Section 3.04
of the Project Agreement and to ensure that YRWHDC is entitled to
charge, collect and adjust the power tariffs and water rates which
it is obliged to recover in order to comply with the Project
Agreement.

4. The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1996, carry out a
midterm review with the Bank and YRWHDC of the progress of and
prospects for Project implementation.

5. The Borrower shall take all steps necessary to ensure that YRCC
and the Project Provinces carry out their respective parts of the
Environmental Management Plan.
- 22 -

SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1. For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a) the term "eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2),
(3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; . |

(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $8,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and depo-
sited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule. _ | |

2. Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
fos 2ligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule. |

3. After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested. |

(b) (i) For replenishment of the Special Account, the
- Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
deposits into the Special Account at such inter-

vals as the Bank shall specify. |

 
-~ 23 -

(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
and other evidence required pursuant to para~
graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request,
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, with-
draw from the Loan Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
have requested and as shall have been shown by
said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Beccount under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respec-
tive equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said docu-
ments and other evidence.

4. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expendi-
tures. .

5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:

(a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or . a

6. (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (1) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank inte the
—- 94 —

Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

(b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstand-
ing amount.

(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account. | !

(da). Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions. |

 
INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

CERTIFICATE

[ hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank

for Reconstruction and Development.

 
