ee ets ON oe ace NTC al astra ‘ aingy
FS fs - pa bet * g«

f ‘ fe aM re "he F
| Sapper mcs |
i gs PRE oo at
j a pee . . ~ a.

: ‘ Zo} .
a 9 tet a tata ana es SL SN TC TS eee
: i

LOAN NUMBER 3758 JM

Loan Agreement

(Tax Administration Reform Project)
between
JAMAICA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

/t , 1994

Dated

 

 
LOAN NUMBER 3758 JM

 
    
  

AGREEMENT

/F / , 1994, between
TERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND

\

AGREEMENT, dated
JAMAICA (the Borrower) and
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). |

| WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project; and

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions

| Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and

Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

(a) The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

(b) In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
subparagraph (1) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to reau:

"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3
of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble ©
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

A. "Assessment Department" means the MOF’s (as
‘hereinafter defined) Assessment Department; |

 
~2-

(b) "Banking and Financial Institutions Acts" means the
Borrower’s Banking Act and Financial Institutions Act, both of 1992,
as amended until the date of this Agreement;

(c) "CARICOM" means the Caribbean Common Market created
by the General Treaty for the Caribbean Community signed at
Chaguramas, Trinidad and Tobago, on July 4, 1970, by Antigua, The
Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica,
Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the
Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago; | |

(d) © "Customs Act" means the Borrower’s Customs Act of
1941, as amended until the date of this Ag. eement ;

(e) "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower’s fiscal year,
beginning on April 1 and ending on March 31 of each calendar year;

(f£) "FSL" means Fiscal Services (EDP) Limited, a company
established under the Borrower’s Companies Act, of 1965;

(g) - "GCTD" means the MOF’s (as hereinafter defined)
General Consumption Tax Department; | |

(h) © "General Consumption Tax Act" means the Borrower’s
General Consumption Tax Act of 1991, as amended until the date of
this Agreement;

(i) "Implementation Timetable" means the timetable set
forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement;

( j) | "Income Tax Act" means the Borrower’s Income Tax Act
of 1954, as anended until the date of this Agreement;

(k) | "TRD" means the MOF’s (as hereinafter defined) Inland
Revenue Department};

(1) | TTD" means the MOF’s (as hereinafter defined) Income

Tax Department;

(m) | "LyD" means the MOF’s (as hereinafter defined) Land
Valuation Department;

(n) "Master Plan" means the Borrower’s plan referred to
in Section 3.06 of this Agreement;. |

 
-3-

(o) "MOF" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and
Planning; , |
(p) "Operational Manual" means the manual referred to in

Section 3.07 of this Agreement;

(q) "PCU" means the Project coordination unit referred to |
in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement;

(r) | "Revenue Administration Act" means the Borrower’s
Revenue Administration Act of 1985, as amended until the date of
this Agreement; |

(s) "RB" means the Borrower’s Revenue Board, established
by the Borrower’s Revenue Board Act, of 1981;

(t) "RPD" means the MOF’s Revenue Protection Division;

(u) "SDTID" means the MOF’s Stamp Duty and Transfer Tax
Department ; — |

(v) "Special Account" means the account referred to in

Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

(w) "Stamp Duty Act" means the Borrower’s Stamp Duty Act,
of 1937; . | |
(x) "Steering Committee" means the committee established

pursuant to the letter from the MOF’s Financial Secretary, dated
September 20, 1993, appointing its members;

(y)  "TACS" means tax accounting and collection system, a
system to process collection and accounting of taxes;

(z) "Tax Administration" means the IRD, the ITD, the LVD,
the SDTTD, the FSL, the RB, the RPD, the GCTD, the TPU (as
hereinafter defined) and the Assessment Department, or any of then;

(aa) "Tax and Information Bills" means the legislative
proposals referred to in Section 3.08 of this Agreement;

(ab) | "Tax Legislation" means the Customs Act, the General
Consumption Tax Act, the Income Tax Act, the Transfer Tax Act (as
hereinafter defined), the Stamp Duty Act and any other legislation
in Jamaica entitling the Borrower to levy taxes or fees from

 
-4-

taxpayers, as such legislation may be amended pursuant to the
provisions of Sections 3.08 and 3.10 of this Agreement;

(ac) "Transfer Tax Act" means the Borrower’s Transfer Tax
Act of 1971, as amended until the date of this Agreement;

(ad) "TRN" means the taxpayers registration number referred
to in Section 3.09 of this Agreement; and

(ae) "TPU" means the Borrower’s Taxation Policy Unit,
within MOF. |

ARTICLE II
The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of thirteen million, two hundred thousand dollars
($13,200,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the .
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or |
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly |
notify the Borrower of such later date. |

| Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 12%) per

 
-~5-

annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time. |

Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreemeat, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
. during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

(c) For the purposes of this Section:

(i) "Interest Period" means a six-month period
- ending on the date immediately preceding each
date specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period

in which this Agreement is signed.

(ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
as reasonably determined by the Bank and
expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B)
loans which may be made by the Bank after July ©
1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
this Section. | |

(iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.

 
- 6 -

(d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii)
of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the

preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 12%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this

Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such
Interest Period." 7

"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each
Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

"(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
commencing on January l, April 1, July 1 or October lina
calendar year."

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. |

Section 2.08. The Director of the External Financial Unit of
the Economics Division of MOF, or any person authorized in writing
by such Director, is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be
taken under the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.

ARTICLE III

Execution of the Project

| Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency, in accordance with the Implementation
Timetable and the Operational Manual, and in conformity with

 
-7-

- appropriate managerial, administrative, maintenance and financial
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shail be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. ©

Section 3.03. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall maintain within
MOF, until completion of the Project, a unit in charge of Project
coordination (the PCU), with structure, functions, management, staff
and budget, all satisfactory to the Bank. |

(b) The Borrower shall maintain the Steering Committee
with structure, functions, members and secretarial support, all
satisfactory to the Bank, for purposes of providing guidance,
monitoring and supervising the Project implementation and the PCU,
and of facilitating the coordination among the different departments
of the Borrower involved in the Project implementation. |

Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, by no later than June 30 and
December 31 of each year during the execution of the Project, the
Borrower, through PCU, shall furnish to the Bank a report on the
progress achieved in the implementation of the Project during the
immediately preceding semester, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank may reasonably request. The report to be furnished by no
later than December 31 shall include a draft annual work plan for
the upcoming calendar year.

Section 3.05 (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower, through PCU_
and in conjunction with the Bank, shall: |

(i) in the month of January of each year during

| the execution of the Project, excepting 1997,

review the progress achieved in the

implementation of the Project during the

preceding calendar year, each such review to

be based on the progress reports referred to

in Section 3.04 of this Agreement, the

corresponding annual work plans and the
Implementation Timetable; and

 
- § -

(ii) in the month of July of 1997, review the

| | overall progress in the implementation of the
Project, such review to include an assessment
of the performance of the  Borrower’s
obligations under this Agreement, and the
available findings and recommendations of the
consultants hired under the Preject.

(b) If, as a result of any of the above reviews, the Bank
determines that the progress in the execution of the Project or in
the achievement of its objectives is not satisfactory, the Borrower
shall promptly take all such action, satisfactory to the Bank, as
shall be necessary for the efficient execution of the Project or the
achievement of its objectives.

Section 3.06. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, and
thereafter implement, a plan, satisfactory te the Bank (the Master
Plan), for the carrying out of Part B of the Project, including,
inter alia: (i) the reorganization of the Tax Administration; (ii)
an overall management information system plan to ensure an efficient
and reliable exchange of information among the Tax Administration ©
units; (iii) a plan for the institutional strengthening of the Tax
Administration; and (iv) a plan to incvease salaries of staff of the
Tax Administration. :

: Section 3.07. The Borrower shall adopt a manual, satisfactory
to the Bank (the Operational Manual), specifying criteria, methods
and procedures for the carrying out of the Project.

Section 3.08. The Borrower shall present to its Parliament,
for approval, bills, satisfactory to the Bank (the Tax and
Information Bills), to amend the Tax Legislation, the Banking and
Financial Institutions Acts and other laws of the Borrower related
to tax enforcement, aimed at granting the Tax Administration
department powers of, inter alia: (a) search and seizure; (b) survey
of business premises; (c) impounding of original incriminating
documents; (d) requisitioning of information from third parties,
including banks and other financial institutions; and (e) exchanging
taxpayers information among each other.

Section 3.09. The Borrower shall present to its Parliament,
for approval, a bill, satisfactory to the Bank, establishing a
compulsory taxpayer registration system, satisfactory to the Bank,
such system to provide, inter alia, that every person having any

 
- 9 -
transaction with the Tax Administration will be required to quote
the respective tax registration number (the TRN).
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall:

(2) not later than one year after the Effective Date, .

carry out a study under Part A of the Project, under terms of

reference satisfactory to the Bank, on the Borrower’s tax legal
framework, including the legislation related to tax enforcement;

| (b) shortly after the conclusion of such study, furnish
it to the Bank, for its review and comment;

(c) not later than 60 (sixty) days after the Bank shall
have presented to the Borrower its comments on such study, prepare,
based on the recommendations of such study and on the comments of
the Bank thereon, a plan of action, satisfactory to the Bank, aiming
at: (i) streamlining the Borrower’s assessment, collection, refund
and tax clearance procedures; (ii) restricting the Tax
Administration discretion in the determination of tax liabilities;
(iii) improving the Borrower’s tax appellate system; and (iv) the
imposition of penalties for non-compliance with tax obligations; and

(dy > carry out such plan of action in a manner and under
a time-table satisfactory to the Bank, provided, however, that,
whenever such plan of action may require amendments to laws, the

presentation of bills, satisfactory to the Bank, providing for such

amendments to the Borrower’s Parliament for approval, shall be
considered sufficient for purposes of implementing such requirements
of the plan of action. |

Section 3.11. The Borrower shall adopt regulations,
satisfactory to the Bank, for the leasing program under Part C.6 of
the Project, including a standard leasing agreement, such
regulations to provide, inter alia, that: (a) only staff and
managers in the Tax Administration and involved in field operations
shall be eligible for the leasing of vehicles; (b) the leasing term
shall be not less than 4 years; (c) the lessee shall have the
option to purchase the vehicle at the end of the leasing period; (d)
the leasing agreement shall terminate in the event lessee ceases,
for any reason, to work in the Tax Administration; (e) the lessee
shall be responsible for the maintenance of the vehicle; and (f£) the
lessee shall keep the vehicle fully insured at all times.

 
- 10 -

ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project or any part thereof.

(b) The Borrower shall:

(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those
for the Special Account for each Fiscal Year
audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
in any case not later than three months after
the end of each such Fiscal Year, the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
| concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to

time reasonably request.

(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records and separate accounts reflecting such
expenditures;

(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Bank
_ has received the audit report for the Fiscal
Year in which the last withdrawal from the

Loan Account or payment out of the Special |
Account was made, all records (contracts,

 
-ll-

orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing such expenditures;

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
such records; and

(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the
statements of expenditure submitted during
such Fiscal Year, together with the procedures
and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals. | | |

ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General

Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that
the Tax Legislation or the Banking and Financial Institutions Acts

or the Revenue Administration Act or the Revenue Board Act shall

have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
affect, in the opinion of the Bank, materially and adversely the
ability of the Borrower to carry out the Project or to perform any
of its obligations under this Agreement.

Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that any event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur. a

ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addition-

al conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

(a) that the PCU shall have been established; and

 
 

- 12 -

(b) that the Operational Manual shall have been adopted.

Section 6.02. The date October 18, 1994 is the terminal date
for effectiveness of the Loan Agreement.

ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of

Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
30 National Heroes Circle

Kingston 4
Jamaica

Telex:
2447 FINANCEJA
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development

i818 H Street, N.W. |

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address: | | | Telex:

INTBAFRAD | | | 197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C. | 248423 (RCA), |
, | 64145 (WUL) or
82987 (FTCC)

 

 
- 13 -

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their.
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

 

JAMATCA

hard  Dernac
By /S/ “Rie ° . |

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

chahiv aver “Hvar
By ls/ . |

Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean

 
 

- 14 -

SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

l. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: |

Amount of the |
Loan Allocated % of

, (Expressed in Expenditures
Category | Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1)(a) Goods 6,010,000 100% of foreign
except for | | | expenditures
Part C.6 of | 100% of local
the Project expenditures ©
| | | (ex-factory cost)
(b) Vehicles 1,000,000 : and 85% of local
for Part C.6 | | expenditures for
of the Project | other items pro-

cured locally

(2)(a) Consultants’ 4,528,000 | 1002
services other :
than training

(b) Training | | 519,000 1002

(3) Unallocated | 1,143,000
TOTAL | . 13,200,000

2. For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and | |

 
- 15 -

(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph l above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to
exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be made in respect of Categories (1)
and (2) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after December
1, 1993; |

(b) expenditures with respect to Part A of the Project,
unless the bill establishing compulsory taxpayer registration
referred to in Section 3.09 of this Agreement shall have been
submitted to the Borrower’s Parliament for approval;

(c) expenditures with respect to Part B of the Project,
unless the Master Plan shall have been furnished to the Bank;

(dd) expenditures with respect to Part C of the Project,
unless the Tax and Information Bills shall have been submitted to
the Borrower’s Parliament for approval;

(e) expenditures under Category 1(b) of the table in
paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless the Borrower shall have adopted
the regulations referred to in Section 3.11 of this Agreement; and

(£) expenditures with respect to Part D of the Project,
unless the Borrower shall have selected, in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank, the TACS to be installed.

4. The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under contracts for goods below the equivalent of $25,000; and for
contracts with firms for consultants’ services below the equivalent
of $50,000, under such, terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. | |

 
 

- 16 -

SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project

The objective of the Project is to increase the Borrower’s
tax revenues through: (a) broadening the tax base; (b) improving the
efficiency and effectiveness of the Tax Administration; (c)
improving control of tax evasion; (d) improving tax collection
systems; and (e) facilitating taxpayers’ voluntary compliance with
the Tax Legislation.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives.

Part A: Broadening the Tax Base
l. Introduction of the TRN, including the development of a

computerized system for assigning a registration number to taxpayers
and recording information on the registered taxpayers.

2. Carrying out of surveys throughout the Borrower’s territory,
aimed at the detection and registration of potential taxpayers.

3. Revision of the Tax Legislation, including studies, aiming at
broadening of the tax base by reducing exemptions, deductions and
concessions.

Part B: Strengthening the Organization and Management of the
| Tax Administration | | |

l. §§ Organizational restructuring of the Tax Administration.

2. Improvement of human resources management and working
conditions in the Tax Administration. ! |

3. Improvement and strengthening of the Tax Administration
management systems, including, inter alia, remodeling of strategic
planning, monitoring and evaluation policies; reinforcement of
internal audit and quality control functions; introduction of
computerized administrative systems for planning, budgeting,
accounting and personnel management.

4. Construction of Tax Administration offices.

5. Refurbishing and maintenance of Tax Administration offices.

 
Part C: Control of Tax Evasion

l. Strengthening the enforcement powers and access to information
of the Tax Administration, including, inter alia, installation of
computerized systems in the Assessment Department;

2. implementation of an improved audit selection policy and
assessment and investigation methodologies;

3. training of auditors and investigators;
4A. establishment of intelligence collection systems;

5. provision of vehicles and other equipment to strengthen
operations of the Tax Administration; and :

6. implementation of a program consisting of the leasing of
_wehicles to staff and managers in the Tax Administration involved in
field operations, in order to provide them with adequate
transportation for the performance of their duties. |

Part Ds: Improvement of Tax Collection

Improvement of the Borrower’s mechanisms to control tax
returns and payment of taxes, through, inter alia: .

1. installation of the TACS;
2. design and implementation of a plan for the detection,
quantification and clearing of existing arrears in the payment of

taxes; and

3. training of Tax Administration units’ staff in the use of.
computer systems.

Part E: Voluntary Taxpayers Compliance
l. Revision of the Tax Legislation, aimed at simplifying

procedural requirements and reducing the cost of compliance with
legal requirements, improvement of the quality of services to
taxpayers, including, inter alia: :

(a) simplification of forms and procedures;

_ (b) dissemination of information related to tax regulations;

 
- 18 -

(c) streamlining of collection, assessment, refund and tax
clearance procedures; and an |

(d) establishment of taxpayers assistance and education
units.

2. Strengthening of the appellate system and establishment of
grievance units reporting to the head of the respective Tax
Administration unit.

3. Carrying out of taxpayer satisfaction surveys.

* * x“

The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.

 
- 19 «

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due © | (expressed in Dollars)

On each January 1 and July 1

beginning on January 1, 2000 |
through July 1, 2011 | 550,000
time

—. 20 -

Premiums on Prepayment

Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable

of prepayment below:

Time of Prepayment

Not more than three years

More

More

before maturity

than three years but

not more than six years
before maturity

than six years but
not more than 1l years

before maturity

More

More

than 11 years but not
more than 15 years
before maturity

than 15 years before
maturity |

Premium
The interest rate (expressed as
a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on the
day of prepayment multiplied
by:

0.18

0.35,
0.65
0.88

1.00
- 2] «=

SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I. Procurement of Goods

Part As International Competitive Bidding

l. Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured

under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).

(a) For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder’s bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and
the other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such an
increase shall not be taken into account in bid evaluation.

(b) In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part
A the Borrower shall use relevant standard bidding documents issued
by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have
agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no
relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank,
the Borrower shall use standard bidding documents based on other
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.

2. To the extent practicable contracts for:

(a) goods other than vehicles shall be grouped into bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more; and

(b) vehicles shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to
cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more. |
- 22 -

Part B: Preference for Domestic Manufacturers and Regional
Manufacturers . |
l. © For the purposes of evaluation and comparison of bids for the

supply of goods: (a) bidders shall be required to state in their bid
the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-
factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (b) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and.
similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and
(c) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expendi-
tures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their use
or installation shall be included.

2. For goods manufactured in Jamaica and in member countries of
CARICOM, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions: :

| (a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the informa-
tion required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.

(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following groups:

(i) Group : bids offering goods manufactured in

| Jamaica, if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank
that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Jamaica equal to at
least 202 of the Ex-factory bid price of such
goods.

(ii) Group _B: all other bids _ offering goods from
within Jamaica. | |

(iii) Group C: bids offering goods manufactured in a
country, other than Jamaica, which is a party to
CARICOM and entitled to pref erential tariffs
thereunder.

(iv) Group D: bids offering any other goods.

 
- 23 -_

(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evaluated
bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of each group shall then
be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.

(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C or group D, all group C
and group D bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated
bid from group A or group B after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of
the imported goods offered in each group C and group D bid, for the
purposes of this further comparison only, an amount equal to the
smaller of: (i) the amount of customs duties and other import taxes
which a nonexempt importer would have to pay for the importation of
the goods offered in such group C or group D bid; or (ii) 15% of the
c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and taxes
exceed 152 of such price. If the group A bid or a group C bid is the
lowest in such further comparison, it shall be selected for the
award. |

(e) If, as a result of the further comparison under
paragraph (d) above, a bid from group D is the lowest, all group D
bids shall be finally compared with the lowest bid from group C,-as
determined under paragraph (c) above, after adding to the c.i.f. bid
price of goods to be imported offered in each group D bid, for the
purposes of this final comparison only, an amount equal to the
smaller of: (i) the difference between the amount of customs duties
and other import taxes which would actually be payable for the
importation of goods offered in such group D bid and for the
importation of goods offered in the group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the
c.i.f. bid price of goods to be imported offered in such group D
bid. If the lowest bid in such comparison is the group C bid, it
shall be selected for purposes of award; if not, the lowest bid from
group D, as determined under paragraph (c) above, shall be selected
for purposes of award.

Part C: Other Procurement Procedures

l. Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $25, 000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $120,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price

 
= 24 -

quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the —
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

2. Database management computer software contracts for the TACS,
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $200,000, may be procured by
direct contracting, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Bank.

Part Ds: | Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

l. Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final

contracts:

(a) With respect to each contract for goods awarded under
Part A hereof the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making
of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract. | |

(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to ssid paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

2. The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
_ paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. |

Section II. Employment of Consultants

l. In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
~ 25 -

by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex,
time based-assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants
under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultant’s
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have
been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other
standard forms agreed with the Bank.

2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Ccnsultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts nor to the
first three contracts for consultants’ services to be financed with
the proceeds of the Loan, to the employment of individuals, to
single source selection of firms, to assignments of a critical
nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank, and to amendments of
contracts raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
- 26 -

SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
l. For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a) the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement ;

— (b) the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and |

(c) the term “Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $400,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2. Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3. After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the —
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

(b) (i) For replenishment of the Special Account, the
| Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
deposits into the Special Account at such

intervals as the Bank shall specify.

(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request,
| the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the

 
- 2] -

documents and other evidence required pursuant
to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
or payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request,
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been
shown by said documents and other evidence to
have been paid out of the Special Account for
Eligible Expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective Eligible Categories, and in the .
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures.

5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

(a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement i or

(b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the Eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. |

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
= 28 -

of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible
Expenditures.

6. (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
- evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

(b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account. |

(d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the -.General
Conditions. |

 
 
  

SEY &

 

9 ATNCAHOS

(pus-u181$)

86/9 ©} P6/L

66/9 9} S6/L

"L6/T 91 6/1

"L6/9 © $6/L

"L6/9 9 H6/L

‘p6/L AG

sulUlly,

‘SME[ XE] JUBAQIOI O} SUAWpUsUTY

"SADAINS [BULSIUT

pue [eusayxa yjoq 0} Ajdde pynom
JOJVIIPUI SIU, “UOKNBUSWATdUIt
Jo 1804 yuanbesqns A130

JO} %¢ pue ‘seak ys1y ay) Ul YO]
Aq siakedxey paiajsiZai Jo Jaquinu
Sy) ut asearloul yuanbasuod ay) pue
siakedxe} pasajysisgaiun jo uo1s9}9q

‘sraAedxe} MOU 0}
JUSUNO Je Sulosuo sy pue siaXkedxe)
BUIJSIXO [[B 0} NUL JO JSUNOT|V

‘syiun

JUSUOYE NWT 9} Jo uoiezado
AJOIOJSHES PUL JUDWYSI]Qeysy

‘NUL 94) SuNNsul Joy Me]
ay} JO Wawelpieg 0) UONEUASSIg

SIOJLIIPU] DOULUTIOJI9g

«

‘SUONLPUSWIUIODE! pue sjiodoy

‘SOIPIOYING X¥) JURAITOI
oO} suahedxe) jeusjod Supieday
UOHEULIOJUT SUIPIEMIO} SUSUINIOG

| | ‘srakedxe) ynoge
UONPWIOJUT [BUJa}UI JO aduRYyoXa

pue sAaaAsns peulayxa jo syiodey

‘NUL
OY) JO SUONUOW PUL JUSWWOT]e OU)

Jo} ajqisuodsol WUN aAeIISIUIWIpy

‘NUL By) sous 0) suouNJedap |

XB) [Je 0} SUOTONI;SUT SATJEIISIUIUIPY

‘Asosjnduiod siohedxe) jenuajod
pue Sunsixe [je Aq UoneNnsidal
OYE O} JOY UOHeISIUIWIpPY
anuaAay ay) JO JUSWIPUsWIY

‘ga suoldwiaxe sonpal
0} saipms Adiyod xe) jno surAsieD ‘p

‘srakedxe) jenuajod suijaajop
1oy saijied ply) pue satouade OD

WIA JIQEpeAe UOIeUIOJU oZI]KN

PUe 399][09 OF SADAINS JBUIAU] *¢

‘siakedxe} Jo uoneisidal puedxa

0) SASAINS JBUIDX9 JO JONPUOD ‘7

| (NUL) Joquiny voNesisay
Johedxey, anbiun 2 jo uoNNNsuy *]

 

‘aseg XBL, ay) uapeolg |

_ saataafqo

 

SaIHANOY [OND

 

GQTEVLGNIL NOILVINGNG TANT

 

d60q KUL Oy Uspeorg “TT.
 

66/9 9) S6/L

"S6/S 0} S6/C

"$6/T © 6/01

- (pus-11e1g)
syadiey, SUIWITT,

  

-yonejuauraydut jo leah piu ou)
Jae %0Z JO SI asealoap pajoadxa

WINUUIW SY], “UOIBISIUTWIpY ©

XU], JO SANAIAS PUL SAITAIOV [BOIIIO
JO} dW) BuIssad01d ay) Ul UORONpay

‘JUSWISseURW puR

yess Aq poataaiod se seare jeontI9
Ul SSAUDATJOIYO [BUOIEZIUEDIO
pasealoul SUNdIPU! SADAING

"UOIEIUAWI[ GUI

jo 1vah yuanbasqns A199 10} %¢
pue ‘Teoh ply) sy) JO pus ay) ye %¢
SI UOHONpal payoadxoe WNIT OY,
‘Pada]]09 Xe} JO JeyfOp uvotewes Jod
S09 SANIISIUIWUpe oy) Ul UOTONpay

| ‘UR[d UOISURIT oy)
Aq pasodoid susujsedap uoneyy
-SIUIWUPY XB], dy) JO JUdWIOseUuRL

pue uoneziuesio ul sosueyo

. pajlejap uo sOH Aq uswealsy

‘UPld

Jaseyy ayy Aq pasodoid uoel)
-SIUIWIPY XB], 94) JO JUOWOSeUEW
pue uonjeziuedio ul sasueyo
}2I9AO UO FO Aq JUaUIIaISY

— SIOWBIIPUT DOUEWIIO}IEg

"SUIa}SAS JUSWIOseUeUI
MOU JO UONBIEdO ArOJIEJsIFES
pue uoneziuedsioal Jo uonajduio;

"UeR]g UONISURIL

UPd Jase

sonpolg |

 

“UR UOIISURIT ot)
jo 3uliONUOW pue UONEUSWS;dW] *¢

“99
UOIISUe]) JO JSOD pue SuloUeNbas
‘guowarinbar SUIUTeI) []BIdAO
‘SUId}SAS PU S[OO) JUsWASPURL
‘SOWIYIS DANUSOU! PUL Sa]edS

pue suonouny sAneNsIUIWIpE

MAU SUNEIIPUI ‘UL[g Josey

OY) 0} DAYo AIT 0} ‘ULTA UOTNSUEI],
payiejop Be Jo uoneledalg ‘7

‘SUIOISAS

yuaulaseueul Jo SulUay)suaNs pure
UOlENSIUIUIpE xB) JO UCHezZIURdIONI
oy} Jo} Adajeyys peolrg oy) Suluyap
UL[q JASE, B JO UOKBIedalg *|

SAMANOY [BOND

 

Aiejes ‘syped Jaaied ‘sainpasoid

“YOneNSIUIWIpY Xe], Jo JUOWOSeURPy]

pue uoneziuediQ uoysuans

_ saatyoa[qo

WOneISIUIMIpy xu, Jo SOUATOPA pus Adtotyyy OAOAdU] “yy

- Of -

 
"86/9 9) S6/S

"0007/9 9) S6/S |

‘96/2 01 56/7. |

(pus-}12)9)
SjasIe], SUIT,

‘uorjenea purl jo Ajenb paaoiduyy

"UOISBAD XP}

10} poyouney suoynoesoid jo Joquinu
pue palAa] sajeued jo uNOWe oy) UI
QSEOIOUE OY) pue ‘UONeSSaAUT/JIpNeE
Jad pajydajjod sNUdAaI ASeIDAR Jy)

Aq painseoul sv suotjesisoAul pue

suipne jo AWAyONposd ay) Ul asvaroUy

‘Ayiqeaaojue usysuaNs JoyIINY
PUL UONAIOSIP SAINBISIUIWUPE Jo
WU] ‘SET XB} W]e sso1oe sainpasold
SZIUOULIEY 0) SUBUIpPUsUE

Jo JuoWRIpIeg 6) UOTRHUASIIg

"SMET XB} JO Ap]Iqeaosojua
oY} USIZUaIs 0} JUDIUIpPUSU
jo JUSWEIIeg 0} UOIRUASAIg

SIOJVIIPU] BOULWIOJIOg

‘sulaysAs sIydesdojie9

 

pue Zuissaooid Rep MON, |

‘UOISBAD
XB} YA A[SATIAYo [Bap 0} SwId}SAS
pue sainpasoid ‘sarajod Many

‘uaWpUusWe asinbal
Jo JUaWI]OVUS pu sadueYys Me
papuswwiodal JoyjIny uo sj1oday

‘paynuap! Apealje suswipuswe
JO JUDWIEI]Ieg 0} UOIIBUISAIg

syonpold

— quawyedaq uonenye,
puey oy) Jo Suuowpsuang *¢

‘jusWedeUuRL

plodes saOIdu 0) yun SUTW]YOIOTW
B JO UOI}EJUSWA]dWI pue
yuouldojaaop pure ‘sylun uonnoasoid
pue [essay Jo suluatdudI)s

SWAISAS UONVUIOJUL [edo] & JO

UOIJE JESU pue JUUIdO[aAap “ypPNe
pue UONeSISOAUT IO} S[oo) jBoIATeuR
poziiainduiod pure sasequiep

Jo Juauidojaaap ‘suonelsdo pay jo
Sulusyysuads ‘Aojod jipne pasiads
jo uoneuawaldun pue uonluyeg ‘7

‘UOHAINSIP VoNpel pue

sainpasoid oziuouey ‘yuaWad0jUS ©

UdY)TUIIJS O} SME] JO JUSWIPUSWL
pure YIOMOWILIJ [eso] JO MITADY "|

SAIMANOY [VON

"UOISPAG .

— XBL, JO [aNUOD oy) sAoIdwy

saataa[qo
"0002/9 9 S6/¢

0007/9 9 S6/E

   

(pus-13015)
syodiey, SUT,

"C6/1 0} 6/01

 

“WOHRUaUIA[ CUT
yoofo1g Jo 1e94 juanbasqns

AJOAO UL pue IBA PAY) oy

Ul YO] Aq Slealle xe) Ul UONONpay

‘yafolg oy)

JO pus oy) 78 %06 0) dn Bulsearoul
uonRUsWefdu yoaford Jo 1e9A pry)
aU} UE YOR SI adejUsOIEd pajoadxa
UINWIUIW SUT, “aNp Sexe) JUALIN Jo
dseUIIAIId UOII9]JOD JY} UI BSEaIOUT

“WIS}SAS UOIJIAT[OD Xe}
ay) jo uondope surpsesai uolsioag

SIOWCIIPUT IOULLIO}.Ig

“SIBAIIE Ul SAX} JD9]JOD 6} SUOTIOR

pue SIo}NejJop XB) JO SISi] PIZHWOLId

‘uoreIado Ul SUIa}SAS UOT}DaT[OD
XB} poziuandwos paaoidwy

| ‘SOATBUIONES
‘SH PUB UOJSAS UONDa]JOD xe}
sunuadiy ay) UO 7J0d91 UOTEN|eAg

sjonpoig

   
     

"SIVAIIE XB} JO UOI}II]jOO
pue sjuonburjap o} duruiysod
wep Jo uoneziiandwod “¢

| ‘UONEWOINE doyjo SuIpNoUI
‘CI 94) UT susaysAs W01}99]][09 xe}
poziiandusiod MoU JO UONET[eISU] *Z

| ‘pardope

94 0} SOV], 94) BulpreSai uoIsIDap
pure SOANeUIOE JOYJO pue vUNUadIY
JO Wa}SAS UONSI][0OZ JaAedxey,
od1e’] PoyIpOU! Sy) JO UONENIPA *|

SONIANOY [BOND

‘SUOI}DAI[OD xeBy saoiduy

Soaljoalqg

 
"0002/9 ©} 96/S

"66/9 9} 96/7
"86/9 9} 16/6
0002/9 9} 66/S

"66/9 0) S6/S

(pus-11e1¢)
Syosey, BUIWIT]

"86/9 9} 16/6

"UONILISHES
Jakedxe) SULINSBOL JO} Bep JO
ssaujnjasn pue Ajiyiquipar ‘ Ayypengd

® ‘suOISIoap
UOIBNSIUMIUIpE xB} Jo AjIquunosse

— pue Aynboa ‘ssauzey ay) jo srafedxyy

jsduowe uondacied paaosduy

"SAOAINS
_Johedxe) Aq payeoipur se ssouvaays3
Jofedxe} Jo [essaipal ul ssoujdwolg

‘skaains saXkedxe; Aq payeoiput
se slohedxy} jsduowe sainpas01d

pure sme] xe} JO duIpuRjsispun Jayag

“sAaAIns JaAedxe} Aq payeoiput
$3809 soueT]dWOD UI UONONpay

“SIoeul

Aorjod xv} uo Bsulyeul UOIsIsap
Io} uOTeUTIOJUE Jo Ayyenb psaoidwiy

SIOJLIIPU] IOULWIIOJIIY |

‘wep Adains

‘wiayshs ajejjadde paziuedsioay

‘yuowedap
YORS Ul SHUN DOUADIIDH JO VDUASIX|

"SME] XB) OU} Jopun woNeEsi;qo
pue S\YysII May) JO sloAedxey
ISSUOUWIE SSOUAIEME PasealoUy]

SME] DUB SaInpa_0I1d poytduis

| ‘suondo
Aatjod xe} Jo sisAjeue suyjonpuos
JO} sosequiep ajduies pur sjapoyy

“SADAINS UONDEJSHES rokedxey "9

‘wajsks
aejaddy oy) Buruay)3uens *¢

‘AJQUIYOVUL [BSSaIpal
- QOURADIIS JO JUDUIYSIIQUISA “p

‘uoneonpa JoAedxel *¢

‘gouri[duios
JO S\SOD SNPs! 0} SWIOJ pue sme]
‘sainpasold jo uoNeoyl[duis *Z

   
 

‘QURULy JO AIISIULFAY OY) Ul
Wu Adyog xey, jo suruaysuans *]

 

SONIANDY [BOND

JULI[AUIO.) TETUNIOA STENCH Ti

doueljdwo. AlBUNjoOA ayeypoey ff

saatqaalqc |

 
INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

CERTIFICATE

[hereby certify that the foregoing IS a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank

for Reconstruction and Development.

ew,

FOR SECR RETARY

 
