Wa Fem

poms |
A es .
q . at »
rs haw: * *
> “ ts aa a ; ». :
4 ee Fae Be f
j won
mye F SOTTO STE
ERC AIL TE

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 3795 LV

Loan Agreement
(Enterprise and Financial Sector Restructuring Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated Nerverabste. 7, 1994

 
_ LOAN NUMBER 3795 LV
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT, dated Asytmber q » 1994, between
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project; |

(B) by egreement of even date herewith between the Borrower
and the Bank (the Single Currency Loan Agreement), the Bank has
agreed to provide a Loan in various currencies in the aggregate
principal amount of ten million dollars ($10,000,000) and eight
million five hundred thousand Deutsche Marks (DM8,500,000); and

"WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
_ Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings: :

(a) "PMU" means the Project Management Unit established and
maintained within the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower and
responsible for overseeing and coordinating overall project
implementation; a

(b) "TU" means the Technical Unit, an independent state
entity established by the Borrower for the purposes of selection and
monitoring of the Participating Financial Institutions and

 
-2-

authorization of the use of the credit line by the Participating
Financial Institutions for the financing of specific subprojects;

(c) "Participating Financial Institutions" or "PFI" means
the banks and other financial institutions established and operating
according to the applicable rules of the Borrower and approved by
the Bank for participation in the Project;

(d) "SPA" means the Separate Project. Account to be opened in
the Bank of Latvia in the name of the Borrower for the purposes of
disbursements and other banking services required to operate the
credit line pursuant to the Subsidiary Loan Agreements with the PFI
or the Bond Redemption Agreement with Unibank;

(e) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement ;

(f£) "Unibank" means the Universal Bank of Latvia or any
other successor thereto which assumed the rights and obligations of
Unibank under the Bond Redemption Agreement; 7

(g) "Swedish Capital Fund" means the fund established by the
Government of Sweden for the purpose of investment in banks and
other financial institutions operating in the territory of the
Borrower, including the PFI;

(h) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or to be made by a
Participating Financial Institution financed in whole or in part out
of the proceeds of the Loan to a Beneficiary for a sub-projects

(4) "Sub-project" means a specific development project to be
carried out by a Beneficiary utilizing, in whole or in part, the
proceeds of a Sub-loan;

(j) “Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means any of the Subsidiary
Loan Agreements entered into by the Borrower and a Participating
Financial Institution for the purposes of execution of the Project;

(k) "Bond Redemption Agreement" means the agreement between
the Borrower and Unibank regarding the substitution of the
Government Bonds held by Unibank with proceeds from the Loan under
the terms and conditions set in Schedule 5 (II) to this Agreement;

 
-3-

(1) "Government Bonds" means the bonds issued by the
Government of Latvia for the purpose of replacing the non-performing
loans made by Unibank to various borrowers in Latvia and reflected
pursuant. to the accounting rules of the Borrower as assets of
Unibank3s :

(m) "Floor Interest Rate" means the lowest rate at which
Subsidiary Loans can be made by the Borrower to the PFI, and
reflecting the costs of the Borrower established under terms and
procedures acceptable to the Bank according to the procedures
established in Schedule 5 to this Agreement ;

(n) "Private Enterprise" means commercial entity registered
according to the applicable rules and regulations of the Borrower,
in which the management is not directly or indirectly controlled by
the Borrower, and more than 50% of the interest is held by persons
or companies other than the Borrower, the local authorities or any
subdivision thereto, or entities controlled by the Borrower;

(o) "Beneficiary" means the Private Enterprise to which a
Sub-loan is made by the Participating Financial Institutions; and |

(p) "First year" with respect to all PFI means the period
from the date the loan has been declared effective until the end of
the following calendar year; the term "second year" means the next
calendar year after the first year; the term "third year" means the
period after the second year up to the closing date of the loan.

- ARTICLE II
The Loan

Section 2.Cl. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of twenty million dollars ($20,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued

by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

 
(b) ‘The Borrower shall, for tho purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to

Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

(c) | For the purposes of this Section:

(i) "Interest Period" means a six-month period
ending on the date immediately preceding each
date specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
which this Agreement is signed.

(ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
as reasonably determined by the Bank and
expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to

 
~-5-

fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

(iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
| second six months of a calendar year.

(d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 12). On each of the dates specified in Section
2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
applicable during such Interest Period.

"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each
Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
Quarter."

"(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
commencing on January l, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
a calendar year."

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year. |

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
‘Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

_ ARTICLE III

Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
~6 -

Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, banking, accounting and environmental
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.

(b) For the purpose of carrying out Part A of the Project,
the Borrower shall make available the equivalent of the proceeds of
_the Loan under Subsidiary Loan Agreements acceptable to the Bank to
be entered into between the Borrower and each Participating
Financial Institution, respectively, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, and which shall include, without
limitations those set forth in Schedule 5 of this Agreement.

(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

Section 3.03. The Borrower shall maintain the PMU and the TU
in accordance with a staffing plan and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank.

ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants

section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

(b) The Borrower shall:

(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal

 
(ii)

(iii)

year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year, the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and —

furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.

(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

(i)

(44)

(iii).

(iv)

maintain or cause to be maintained, in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records and accounts reflecting such
expenditures; |

retain, until at least one year after the Bank
has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
Account was made, all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing such expenditures;

enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
such records; and |

ensure that such records and accounts are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the

report of such audit contains a separate opinion

by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
~g-

Section 4.02. The Borrower shall present for consideration by
the Saeima (the Parliament of Latvia) legislation which in the
opinion of the Borrower and the Bank provides the necessary
regulatory framework for the adequate functioning of the banks and
other financial institutions, including legislation on secured
transactions, loans and collateral regulations, by December 31,

1995. a

Section 4.03. The Borrower shall prepare by March 31, 1995 a
plan of action regarding the administrative procedures for: |

(i) implementation of the bankruptcy and foreclosure
legislation; and

(ii) public access to the registers of commercial
entities, titles and rights, including the data
and information that will be made available to
the Public.

ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination

_ Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions =. the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

(a) The SPA is opened with the Bank of Latvia on terms and
conditions specified in the Financial Agency Agreement acceptable to
the Bank; .

(b) The TU is established by the Borrower with staff and
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank;

(c) The Subsidiary Loan Agreements satisfactory to the Bank
between at least two PFI, other than Unibank, have been executed on
behalf of the parties thereto; oo

(d) The Bond Redemption Agreement satisfactory to the Bank
between the Borrower and Unibank has been executed on behalf of the
parties thereto and a program for the privatization of Unibank has
been prepared;

 
(e) Environmental screening procedure for the purposes of
implementation of the Project, including the adoption of Environ-
mental Assessment Manual, is established by the Borrower in a manner
acceptable to the Bank; and

(£) All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Single Currency Loan Agreement for the Enterprise and Financial
Sector Reconstruction Project other than those related to the
effectiveness of this Agreement have been fulfilled.

Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is |
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. . |

Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministry of Finance
1 Smiilsu Street
Riga, LV 1919
Latvia |

Telex:
871 161 299
For the Bank:

International Bank for ©
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W. |
Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America
- 10 -

Cable address: . Telex:
INTBAFRAD 248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C. 82987 (FTCC)

64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be

signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

REPUBLIC OF LATVIA

By /s/ Ojars kz brine

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By A) Sasi) Kavalshy

Actime Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia

 
-ll-

SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

l. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the

amounts of the Loan to

each Category and the percentage of

expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

Catepory

(1). Credit Line for
Part A of the
Projects:

(a) for Part A(1)
of the Project

(b) for Parts A(2),
A(3) and A(4)
of the Project

(2) Equipment and
materials for
Parts B and C of
the Project:

(a) for Part B of
the Project

(b) for Part C of
the Project

Amount of the

Loan Allocated
(Expressed in
Dollar

Equivalent)

5,000,000

8,600,000

520,000

2,000,000

Nee eee eee ee

% of
Expenditures
to be
Financed ~

100% of foreign

expenditures,

100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost), 80%

of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally |
and 100% of the
cost of consultant
services

100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex factory
cost) and 80%.
of local

expenditures

for other

items procured
locally
- 12 -

Amount of the

Loan Allocated 4 of
(Expressed in Expenditures
— Dollar to be
Category Equivalent) — Financed
(3) Incremental | 400,000 100%
Operating Costs for |
Part B(2) of the
Project |
(4) Technical Assistance 2,500,000 100%
for Part B(l1) of the |
Project
(5) Unallocated 980,000
TOTAL --—-- 20,600,000
2. For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in

the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; |

(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and

(c) the term "incremental operating costs" means the costs,
other then salaries of government officials, related to the project
Management, including consultant services, supplies, other
consumables, small office equipment, postage, communication and
administrative expenses. a |

3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: |

(a) | payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to.
exceed $1,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (2) and (3)

 
- 13 -

on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but
after June 30, 1994; ,

(b) expenditures under Category 2 (b) unless: (i)
implementation plan for upgrading the Borrowers’ payments system,
satisfactory to the Bank, is approved by the Bank of Latvia and a
unit is established to manage the implementation of the plan with
staff and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) a Fund
Transfer Agreement for the transfer of the funds from the Loan to
the Bank of Latvia pursuant to the applicable administrative
procedures of the Borrower is executed between the Borrower and the
Bank of Latvia with terms acceptable to the Bank; |

(c) expenditures under Category 4 unless the Borrower: (i)
prepares the facilities and terms of reference, including the
appointment of the managers, for ten privatization teams with the
Latvian Privatization Agency; and (ii) a Fund Transfer Agreement for
the transfer of the funds from the Loan to the Latvian Privatization
Agency is executed between the Borrower and the Latvian
Privatization Agency with terms acceptable to the Bank; and

(d) expenditures for Category 1 (a) after March 31, 1996,
after which date the remaining balance in this category, if any,
will be used for any sub-loans financed under Part A of the Project.

4. The Bank may require, except for Category 4, withdrawals from
the Loan Account to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure for expenditures under contracts for goods, works and
services not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, under such terms and
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
- 14 -

SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project

The objectives of the Project are to assist the Government in
the efforts to reform the enterprise and financial sector by
providing a credit line for newly privatized and private enter-
prises, technical assistance in the privatization process and
infrastructure investment in the banking sector.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A: Credit Line for Private Sector Enterprises

Financing of medium and long-term credits and establishing a
credit mechanism for use in the future.

ol. Newly Privatized Enterprises: provision of medium and long-
term financing for newly privatized enterprises from part of the
proceeds of the Loan reserved for this category in the first
eighteen months after effectiveness.

2. Unibank capitalization and rehabilitation: establishment of
a credit line for use by Unibank for the purposes of replacement of
the Government Bonds, with Sub-loans and permitting the Borrower to
redeem the Government Bonds and incur a longer maturity World Bank
liability instead.

3. Swedish Capital Fund: provision of credit for eligible banks
which will also be given the option to draw upon additional
financial resources from the Swedish Capital Fund made available by
agreement between the Borrower and the Government of Sweden,
acceptable to the Bank. :

4. Credit Line for Private Enterprises: provision of medium and
long-term credits for private enterprises through the Participating
Financial Institutions. .

Part B: | #$‘Institutional Development Component

l. Technical Assistance for Privatization: provision of
assistance for institutional development of the Latvian

 
~15-

Privatization Agency in the area of privatization of selected
enterprises.

2. Credit Line Management: establishment of a Technical Unit as
an independent state entity established by the Borrower for the
purposes of selection and monitoring of the Participating Financial
Institutions and authorization of the use of the credit line by the
Participating Financial Institutions for the financing of specific
subprojects and the management of the credit line under the project
and similar credit lines in future operations of different donors;
financing of the incremental operating costs related to the
operations of the Technical Unit. |

Part C: Financial Infrastructure Investment Component
Upgrading of the payment and clearing system of the Borrower.

x ke *

The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.
-~ 16 -

SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule

Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due (expressed in dollars)*

On. each June 1 and December 1

beginning June 1, 2000 835,000

through June 1, 2011

And on December 1, 2011 . 795,000

* The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

 
-17-

Premiums on Prepayment

Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan —
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable

time of prepayment below:

Time of Prepayment |

Not more than three years
before maturity

More than three years but

not more than six years

before maturity

More than six years but
not more than 11 years
before maturity

More than 11 years but not
more than 15 years
before maturity

More than 15 years before
maturity

Premium
The interest rate (expressed
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on the
day of prepayment multiplied
by:

0.18

0.35

0.65

0.88

 
- 18 -

SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A: International Competitive Bidding
l. Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be

procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).

(a) For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder’s bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and
the other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such an
increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.

(b). In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with
this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Bank snall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the
Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Bank. ,

2. To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall
_ be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$500,000 or more. :

Part B: - Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.l hereof, goods manufactured in Latvia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

 
- 19 -

Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
l. Except as provided in paragraphs 2 and 3, items or groups of

items of goods or services estimated to cost per contract the
equivalent of less than $500,000 may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from |
at least three suppliers from at least three different countries
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.

2. Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 but more than
$100,000 per contract shall be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally under procedures
acceptabie to the Bank.

3. Contracts for the procurement of goods, works and services
estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $100,000 shall be
awarded in accordance with established commercial practice of the
Beneficiary, due account being taken also of other relevant factors
such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability thereof and
availability of maintenance and spare parts. :

4, Goods of a proprietary nature may be purchased from suppliers
on the basis of negotiated contracts pursuant to procedures
acceptable to the Bank.

Part D: ' Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

l. Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts: | |

(a) With respect to: (i) the first contract for goods and
works to be financed by each Participating Financial Institution
according to each of the procedures under Part C of this Schedule,
and (ii) each contract for goods to be awarded in accordance with
the provisions of Section I, Parts A.1l and C.4 of this Schedule, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract. |
=~ 20 -—

(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2. The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. |

Section II. Employment of Consultants

l. In order to assist the Borrower in the implementation of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex,
time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants
under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants’
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have
been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other
Standard forms agreed with the Bank.

2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank

review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting
firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b)
contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank
review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the

 
- 2] -

Bank, (d) to amendments of contracts for employment of consulting
firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or
(e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or
above.
- 22 -

SCHEDULE 5

I. Principal Terms and Conditions of Subsidiary Loan Agreement

a The principal terms and conditions set forth herein shall
apply for the purposes of Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement. |

A. Terms
l. The principal amount to be relent out of the proceeds of the

Loan to a Participating Financial Institution under its respective
Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall be: (a) denominated in dollars,
Deutsche Marks or Lats; and (b) the equivalent of. the aggregate
outstanding amount of the principal of all Sub-loans made out of the
proceeds thereof.

2. The Subsidiary Loan shall be: (a) charged, on the principal
amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
interest, during each six-month period commencing on February 15 and
August 15 of each calendar year, at a rate agreed between the
Borrower and the Participating Financial Institution and repre-
senting a margin above the interest rate established in Section 2.05
of this Agreement and adjustable at the end of each Semester, and
which margin will be fixed until the maturity of the loan; and (b)
repaid over a period not exceeding 12 years, inclusive of a grace
period not exceeding three years. |

3. The floor interest rate shall represent a margin over the
interest rate under this Agreement, which will include the following
components: (i) costs of establishment and operation of the TU; (ii)
premium to the Borrower covering the exchange rate risk; (iii) the
fee charged by the Bank of Latvia in its capacity as financial agent
for the Borrower for the purposes of the Project; and (iv) premiums
to the credit risk fund established by the Borrower for the purposes
of insurance against potential losses from the operation of the
credit line for the purposes of the Project).’

The guidelines for the calculation of the floor
interest rate will be provided by the Credit
Regulations Manual, reference to which will be
included in every Subsidiary Loan Agreement.

 
- 23.

B. Conditions
dl. A Subsidiary Loan Agreement may be entered into with a bank or

other financial institution, duly established and operating under
the laws of the Borrower, which:

(a) is in compliance with all legal and regulatory require-
ments applicable to its operations;

(b) is operating pursuant to investment and lending policies
and procedures which the Bank and the Bank of Latvia shall have
judged acceptable, and has undertaken to maintain said policies and
procedures; and

(c) has a satisfactory financial and management structure,
determined inter alia, on the basis of risk-based capital adequacy
criteria satisfactory to the Bank, including acceptable asset
quality and lending performance, liquidity and management
effectiveness, and the organization, management, technical staff and
other resources required for the efficient carrying out of its
operations. |

2. Each respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall contain
provisions pursuant to which each respective Participating Financial
Institution shall undertake to:

(a) carry out its activities under the Project and conduct
its operations and affairs in accordance with appropriate financial
standards and practices, with qualified management and staff in
adequate numbers, and in conformity with the investment and lending
policies and procedures referred to in paragraph I.B.1.(b) hereof,
and to provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose;

(b) (i) make Sub-loans to Beneficiaries on the terms and
conditions set forth in this Schedule; (ii) exercise its rights in
relation to each such Sub-loan in such manner as to protect its
interests and the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, comply
with its obligations under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement
and achieve the purposes of the Project; (iii) not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive any of its agreements providing for Sub-loans, or
any provision thereof, without prior approval of the Borrower and
the Bank; and (iv) appraise Sub-projects and supervise, monitor and
report on the carrying out by Beneficiaries of Sub-projects, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank;
- 24 -

(c) (i) exchange views with, and furnish all such
information to the Bank and the TU, as may be reasonably requested
by the Bank and/or the TU, with regard to the progress of its
activities under the Project, the performance of its obligations
under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Project; and (ii) promptly inform
the Bank of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere
with the progress of its activities under its respective Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and

(d) (i) maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect,
in accordance with sound accounting practices, its operations and
financial condition; (ii) have its financial statements (balance

sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) |

for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors

acceptable to the Bank; (iii) furnish to the TU, as soon as

available, but in any case not later than six months after the end

of each such year, certified copies of said financial statements and

accounts for such year, certified copies of said financial
statements and accounts for such year as so audited, and the report
of such audit by said auditors in such scope and detail as the Bank
shall have reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish to the Bank such
other information concerning said records, accounts and financial
Statements, as well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from
time to tiie reasonably request.

3. Subsidiary loans shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower
shall obtain, by written contract or other appropriate means, rights
adequate to protect its interests and those of the Bank, including
the rights to be exercised in a manner acceptable to the Bank:

(a) to suspend the right of the Participating Financial
Institution to use the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan upon failure
by such Participating Financial Institution to perfcerm its
obligations under its contract with the Borrower;

(b) in case of suspension to exempt from such suspension the.
amounts already committed but not disbursed by the Participating

Financial Institution under eligible sub-loans executed before the
date of the suspension; and

(c) to transfer the rights. under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement which was suspended or terminated to another eligible
Participating Financial Institution under terms and conditions

 
- 25 -

agreed between the Borrower and such Participating Financial
Institution. | |

4. Subsidiary Loans shall be made for onlending to the final
Beneficiaries for financing of eligible expenditures according to
the terms and conditions specified in the Credit Line Regulations
Manual of the TU for the Project, including: |

(a) the following percentages which shall apply for
financing of eligible expenditures under every sub-project:

(i) 100% of foreign expenditures;
(ii) 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost);
(iii) 80% of local expenditures other than those in

sub-paragraph (a) (ii); and
(iv) 100% of consultants contracts.

(b) notwithstanding the provisions in sub-paragraph (a)
above, the following percentages shall apply for financing of
eligible sub-projects: 100% of the project cost for eligible sub-
projects for which financing has been authorized in the first year
of the Project, 85% of the cost of eligible sub-projects for which
financing has been authorized in the second year of the Project, and
70% of the cost of eligible sub-projects for which financing has
been authorized in the third year of the project.

II. Conditions of the Bond Redemption Agreement between the

Borrower and Unibank

l. The Borrower will enter into a Bond Redemption Agreement with
Unibank under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, provided
that:

(a) Unibank meets all other conditions specified in
paragraph I.B. of this Schedule. However, the term Subsidiary Loan
Agreement shall be replaced for the purposes of this Section with
the term Bond Redemption Agreement; and .

(b) Unibank undertakes to use the proceeds received
according to the provisions of this Schedule for the purposes of the
Project, with an onlending rate for the final Beneficiaries not less
than the floor interest rate established for the purposes of the Project.
- 26 -

2. The principal amount to be transferred to Unibank out of the
proceeds of the Loan under the Bond Redemption Agreement shall be:
(a) denominated in Lats; and (b) the equivalent of the aggregate
amount of the principal of all Sub- loans made out of the proceeds
thereof.

III. Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans

The principal terms and conditions set forth herein shall
apply for the purpose of paragraph I.B.2.(b) of this Schedule.

A. Terms

l. The principal amount of each Sub-loan made out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be denominated in dollars, Deutsche Marks or Lats
(determined as of the date or respective dates of withdrawal from
the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account) of the value
of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out on account of
the cost of goods financed out of such proceeds for the Sub-project.

2. Each Sub-loan shall be: (a) charged interest, on the principal
amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a
rate determined by the Participating Financial Institution making
such Sub-loan in accordance with its investment and lending policies
and practices; and (b) made for a period determined pursuant to said
policies and practices and not exceeding 12 years, inclusive of a
grace period of not more than three years.

B. Conditions

l. No expenditures required for a Sub-project shall be eligible
for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless the operation
being financed complies with the Credit Line Regulations Manual as
established by the TU from time to time in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank:

(a) the Sub-loan for such Sub-project shall have been
authorized for disbursement by the Bank and such expenditures shall
shave been made not earlier than 120 days prior to the date on which —
the Bank shall have received the application and information
required under paragraph III.B.2.(a) below in respect of such Sub-
loan, or |

(b) the Sub-loan for such Sub-project shall have been a
free-limit Sub-loan (as hereinafter defined) for which the Bank

 
- 2] -

shall have authorized withdrawals from the Lean Account and such
expenditures shall have been made not earlier than 120 days prior to
the date on which the TU shall have received the Sub-loan request
from the PFI and information required under paragraph III.B.2.(b)
below in respect of such free-limit Sub-loan. For the purposes
hereof, a free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for a Sub-project,
other than the first two Sub-loans to be made by each Participating
Financial Institution and other than any Sub-loan greater than
$600,000 equivalent.

2. (a) When presenting a Sub-loan, other than a free-limit Sub-
loan, to the Bank for approval, the Participating Financial
Institution shall furnish the Technical Unit, which will forward to
the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the Bank, together
with (i) a description of the Beneficiary; (ii) the appraisal of the
Sub-project, including a description of the expenditures proposed to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (iii) the proposed
terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of
amortization therefor; and (iv) any such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request.

(b) Each request for authorization to make withdrawals from
the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan shall contain
(i) a summary description of the Beneficiary and the Sub-project,
including tentative disbursement schedule and a description of the
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan: and (ii) the terms and conditions of the Sub- loan, including
the schedule of amortization therefor.

(c) Disbursement applications and requests made pursuant to
the provisions of subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall
be presented to the Bank on or before June 30, 1998, or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. :

3. Sub-loans shall be made to Beneficiaries who each shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Participating Financial
Institution, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, that
it is creditworthy, and has a satisfactory financial structure and
the organization, management, staff and financial and other
resources required for the efficient carrying out of its operations,
including the carrying out of the Sub-project.

4. Sub-loans shall be made for Sub-projects which are each
determined, on the basis of an appraisal carried out in accordance
with guidelines satisfactory to the Bank, to be technically feasible
- 28 -

and economically, financially and commercially viable and designed
with appropriate health, safety and environmental standards.

5.  Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the Participating
Financial Institution making the Sub-loan shall obtain, by written
contract or other appropriate means, rights adequate to protect its
interest and those of the Borrower and the Bank, including the right
tos

(a) require the Beneficiary to carry out the Sub-project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
environmental, economic, financial and technical practices, to
maintain adequate records, and to provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities and other resources required for the purpose;

(b) require that the goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreemeut, and use such goods exclusively in
the carrying out of the Sub-project;

(c) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Bank if the Bank shall so request, the goods and the sites,
works, plans and construction included in the Sub-project, the
operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;

(d) require that the Beneficiary shall take out and maintain
such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be
consistent with sound business practice, including such insurance to
cover hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made
payable in a currency freely usable by the Beneficiary to replace or
repair such goods; .

(e) require each Beneficiary under Part A of the Project, as
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, to: (i) have its
financial statements for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing regulations applicable in the territory of
the Borrower, in a manner acceptable to the Participating Financial
Institution, and (ii) furnish to the Participating Financial
Institution, as soon as available, but in any case not later than
six months after the end of each such year, certified copies of its
financial statements for such year as so audited, and the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope in such detail as the
Participating Financial Institution shall have reasonably requested;

 
- 29 -

(£) obtain all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration,
operations and financial condition of the Beneficiary and to the
benefits to be derived from the Sub- “Projects and .

(g) suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the
use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Beneficiary to
perform its obligations under its contract with the Participating
Financial Institution. .
-~ 30 -

SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
Ll. For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories l, 2 and
3, set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule l to this
Agreement; .

| (b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement } and

(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2. Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule. —

3. After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested. |

(b) (i) For replenishment of the Special Account, the
‘Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for

deposits into the Special Account at such

intervals as the Bank shall specify.

(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request,
| the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the

 
-31-

documents and other evidence required pursuant
to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
‘Or payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request,
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been
shown by said documents and other evidence to
have been paid out of the Special Account for

eligible expenditures. |

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account once the total unwithdrawn amount of the
Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for the respective Part of
the Project, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to such Part, shall equal the equivalent of
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter,
withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount |
of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for such Part shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6. (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
~ 32 «

provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

(b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account. ,

(d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions. |

 
- 33 -

SCHEDULE 7
Modifications of the General Conditions

For the .purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows: |

l. The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

2. In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-
paragraph (1) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

3. The words "the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower or the
Guarantor terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals -
with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such notice, such
amount of the Loan shall be cancelled" set forth at the end of
Section 6.03 are deleted and the following is substituted therefor:

“or (f£) by the date specified in subparagraph (c) of
Section LII.B.2. of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement, the Bank
shall, in respect of any portion of the Loan: (i) have
received ne applications or requests permitted under
subparagraphs (a) or (b) of said paragraph; or (ii) have
denied any such applications or requests, the Bank may, by
notice to the Borrower, terminate the right to submit such
applications or approvals or to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount or
portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such notice, such
amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."
INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

CERTIFICATE

I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank

for Reconstruction and Development.

SY CB,

 

FOR SECRETARY

 
