Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

 
 
   

“wea gE MNESE HEEL eure yf
yee Ait

 

é #5 3 sf Boe {
; Gs, <7 . aes t ‘¢ So. 4 |
asenesansorcacnend

   

 

LOAN NUMBER 3695 LV

- Loan Agreement
(Agricultural Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated February /6, 1994

 

 

 
LOAN NUMBER 3695 LV
LOAN AGREEMENT

: AGREEMENT, dated Feb . / 6 » 1994, between
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA (the Borrower and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

: WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project; : |

(B) the Borrower has agreed with the Swedish Board for
Investment and Technical Support (BITS) and with the European
Comsunity’s Assistance Program for Exstern Europe (EC PHARE) to
assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions
set forth in the respective agreements; and "

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement; |

WOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement; :

(a) The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

- (b) In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (1) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen

under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be

inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of

the Bank’s Articles of Agreement." |
~ 2-

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings: |

(a)  “AFC" means the Agricultural Finance Company of Latvia
to be established in Riga by the Borrower with the purpose of
identification of investment opportunities, assessment of
credithworthiness and provision of funds to individual private
farmers; | o :

(by "AFC Charter" means the Charter or other similar
document pertaining to the establishment and operations of AFC;

(c) "AFC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and "AFC pursuant to section
3.01(b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the AFC Subsidiary
Loan Agreement ; 7

: (dd) "AFC Subsidiary Loan" means the loan to be made pursuant
to the AFC Subsidiary Loan Agreement; |

(e) "Beneficiary" means a private farmer or private farmers
association or a private sector agroprocessing or forest industry
enterprise to which a PFI proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;

(£) "TBL" means the Investment Bank of Latvia established in
Riga pursuant to Decree 124 of the Council of Ministers dated April
9, 1992; . r | : | .

(g) "IBL Charter" means ‘the Law on the Investment Bank of
Latvia, dated March 30, 1993, pertaining to the establishment and
operations of IBL; .

(h)  "“IBL Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
‘be entered into between the Borrower and IBL pursuant to section
3.01(b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes ell schedules to the IBL Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; - |

(i) ° +“IBL Subsidiary Loan" means the loan to be made pursuant
to the IBL Subsidiary Loan Agreement ; |

 
-3-

(j) "Participating Financial Institutions" or "PFI means
AFC, IBL and other financial institutions and banks acceptable to
the Bank and the Bank of Latvia which are the recipients of a
Subsidiary Loan; .

(k) "PMU" means the Project Management Unit established by
the Borrower to coordinate and oversee activities under the Project,
in accordance with the terms of this Agreement;

(1) “Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; |

| (m) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or to be made by a PFI
financed in whole or in part out of the proceeds cf the Loan to a
Beneficiary for a Sub-project; | “NS

i (n)  "“Sub-project" means a specific ‘development project to be
carried out by a Beneficiary utilizing, in whole or in part, the
proceeds of a Sub-iloan; and | .

; (0) "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the AFC . Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, the IBL Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and any other
subsidiary loan agreement entered into by the Borrower and a PFI.

ARTICLE II
The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
verious currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to

the amount of twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000), being the

sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and —
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to. this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a foreign
bank, acceptable to the Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to

 
-4-

the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure
er attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special

- Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
5 to this Agreement. |

es.

Section 2/03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly .
notify the Borrower of such later date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shali pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 12) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time. |

on Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
| principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

(b) | As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified oD
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester. .

(c) For the purposes of this Section:

(i) "Interest Period" means a six-month period
ending on the date immediately preceding each
date specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
which this Agreement is signed. oe

(ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
as reasonably determined by the Bank and
expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 _

 
-5-

bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

(iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
| | second six months of a calendar year. |

; (d}°” On such date.as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows: |

"(ay The. Borrower shall pay interest on the
' principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
applicable during such Interest Period."

"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of
each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the

Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
such Quarter." oo |

"(c) (444), ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
commencing on January 1, April 1, July | or October 1 in
a calendar year." oe

: Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year. 7

Section 2.07. The Borrower ‘shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. a :

ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
| Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this

Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
-6-

agricultural, banking, financial and managerial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.

(b) For the purpose of carrying out Parts A and B of the
Project, the Borrower shall make available the equivalent of the
proceeds of the Loan under Subsidiary Loan Agreements to be entered
into between the Borrower and each PFI, respectively, under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and which shall include, .
without limitations those set forth in Schedule 6 of this Agreement.

(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Subsidiary Financing
Agreement or any provision thereof. :

_ Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

Section 3.03. The Borrower shall maintain the PMU in
accordance with a staffing plan and terms of reference satisfactory |
to the Bank. |

ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenents

Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
- maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

(b) The Borrower shall:

(i). have the records and accounts referred to in
| paragraph (a) of this Section including those
for the Special Account for each fiscal year
audited, or cause such records and accounts to

‘be audited, all in accordance with appropriate

 

 
(ii)

(iii)

-~7-

auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than 6 months after the end
of each such year, the report or reports of such
audits by. said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and | |

furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request. | |

| (c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

(i)

(ii)

(444)

(iv)

maintain or cause to be maintained, in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records and $$ accounts reflecting such
expenditures; )

retain or cause to be retained, until at least
one year after the Bank has received the audit
report for the fiscal year in which the last .
withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out
of the Special Account was made, all -records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents ) evidencing such
expenditures; |

enable the Bank’s representatives to examine

such records; and

ensure that such records and accounts are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion
by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be

relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
-8-

ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank

Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

(a) The AFC Charter, IBL Charter, the charter or similar |
documents for other PFIs shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
_ adversely the operations or the financial condition of such PFI or
its respective ability to carry out its activities under the Project
or to perform any of its obligations under its respective Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. | ,

(b) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of a PFI or for the suspension of its respective operations.

(c) (1) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the agreement providing
therefor, or | )

(B) | any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof. °

(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Bank that:

(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination
| or prematuring is not caused by the —
failure of the Borrower to perform any of
its obligations under such agreement; and

(B) adequate funds for the Project are
| available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent

 
-9-
with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.

Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, any

event specified in Section 5.01 (a), (b) or (c), subject to the

proviso of paragraph (ii) thereof, of this Agreement shall have
occurred. |

ARTICLE V*
Termination; Effective Date

Section 6:01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement

within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,

namely, that a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with at least one PFI shall
have been executed on behalf of the parties thereto.

Section 6.02. The following is specified as additional matter, |

within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions,
to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the
Bank, namely that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement referred to in
Section 6.01 above has been duly authorized or ratified by, and is
legally binding upon, the parties thereto in accordance with its
terms. | |

Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions. — .

ARTICLE VII

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is

designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of

Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
~10-

. Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower: |

Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
1, SmilSu Street
LV 1919 Riga
Latvia :

Telex:
871 161 299
For the Bank:

International Bank for

Reconstruction and Development

1818 H Street, N.W. oo,
Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address: | —s Telex:

INTBAFRAD | 248423 (RCA)

Washington, D.C. © 82987 (FTCC)
| 64145 (WUL) or

197688 (TRT)

 
~ll-

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

REPUBLIC OF LATVIA

£. Kalnins

Authorized Representative

By /s/ 0/4 rs

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ ta), treal Thalwitz
Regional Vice President
Eurepe and Central Asia

-y
fA
3 r
Lr
ve

 
- 12 -

SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
Financed ovt of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

Amount of the :
Loan Allocated Z of

 

| (Expressed in _ Expenditures
Category © Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) Part A of the 11,900,000 ) 100% for eligible
Project ) sublwans approved
) in the first year;
) $52 for eligible
) subloans approved
) in the second
) year; 702 for
) eligible subloans
_ — | : ) approved in
(2) Part B of the 11,900,000 _ ) the third year of
Project - ) the Project or
) | thereafter
(3) Equipment | 1,000,000 100Z of foreign
and training expenditures and
80Z of local
expenditures
(4) Unallocated 200,000
Zo For the purposes of this Schedule: (a) the term "foreign

expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;

 
- 13 -

(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
-eurrency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and oe

(c) the term "first year" with respect to any PFI means 12
months from the date the first Sub-loan was entered into by that
PFI; the term "second year" means the next 12 months after the first
year; and the term "third year" means the period after the second
year up to the Closing Date. |

3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to
exceed $2,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (2)
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but
after September 1, 1993; :

(b) expenditures under Category (1) unless the AFC has been
established with cperating regulations satisfactory to the Bank, and
the AFC Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the
parties thereto, and the Bank has been furnished with an opinion
that said Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and is legally binding upon, the parties in accordance
with its terms; and |

(c) expenditures under Category (2) unless the IBL
Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the parties
thereto, and the Bank has been furnished with an opinion that said
Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and is legally binding upon, the parties in accordance with its
terms. |

4. The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under contracts for goods, works and services not exceeding $250,000
equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. .

 
MA 5
ee
To, = 1 4 —_
tM
af :

SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project

The objectives of the Project are to help private farmers and
to enhance on-going privatization of agriculture, the agro-
processing and forest industries through provision of investment
credit. .

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof ag the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives: |

Part A: Support for On-Farm Development |

Provision of Sub-loans for on-farm investments and initial
working capital to private farmers. —

Part B: Support for Agro- and Forest Industries Development

Provision of Sub-loans for investments and initial working
capital to small and medium-size private enterprises in the agro-
and forest industries sector. |

Part C: _ Institutional Developm ent

 

Provision of equipment and services to assist the Borrower in
implementing priority programs for general development in the
agricultural sector, including without limitation (a) support for
the State Land Services relating to land demarcation, registration
and titling; (b) strengthening AFC’s management capabilities; and
(c) assistance in the areas of agricultural research, extension, and
marketing and distribution. _

xk * *

The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.

 
Date Payment Due

September 1, 1998
March 1, 1999
September 1, 1999
March 1, 2000
September 1, 2000
March 1, 2001

September 1, 2001

March 1, 2002
September 1, 2002
March 1, 2003
September 1, 2005
March 1, 2004
September 1, 2004
March 1, 2005
September 1, 2005
March 1, 2006
September 1, 2006
March 1, 2007
September 1, 2007
March 1, 2008
September 1, 2008
March 1, 2009
September 1, 2009
March 1, 2010 |
September 1, 2010
March 1, 2011

re LL

* The figures in th
determined as of the respective dat

~ 15 -

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

Payment of Principal
(expressed in dollars)*

585,000
610,000
— 630,000
655,000
680,000
705,000
730,000
760,000
785,000
815,060
845,000
875,000
910,000
945,000
980,000

(1,015,000

1,055,000
1,090,000
1,130,000
1,175,000
1,220,000
1,265,000
1,310,000
1,360,000
1,410,000
1,460,000

es of withdrawal.

General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

is column represent dollar equivalents

See

 
- 16 -

Premiums on Prepayment

| Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below: _

Time of Prepayment Premium

The interest rate (expressed
as a percentage per annum )
applicable to the Loan on the
day of prepayment multiplied
by: | .

Not more than three years | 0.18
before maturity

More than three years but. | 0.35
not more than six years oe
before maturity

More than six years but : os 0.65
not more than 1l years |
before maturity

More than ll years but not | 0.88
more than 15 years
before maturity

More than 15 years before | 1.00
| maturity

 
-i17-

Procurement

Part A: Procurement of Goods

l. Subject to prior review in accordance with paragraph 1.10 of
the "Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), contracts for
the procurement of goods shall be awarded through international
competitive bidding or other methods of procurement in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I, il
and III of the Guidelines, subject to the following modifications:

(a) Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor: : |

">.8 Notification and Advertising

The international community should be notified in a timely

manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by advertising

invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder’s invitation list,
to apply for prequaiification, or to bid; such advertisements
should be placed in at least one newspaper of general circulation
in the Borrower’s country and, in addition, in at least one of the
following forms:

(i) a notice in the United Nations publication,
Development Forum, Business Edition; or

(ii) an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal ef wide international cir-
eulation; or :

(iii) a notice to local representatives of countries
and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
that are potential suppliers of the goods and
services required." | |

(b) The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines: | |

"as a further alternative, bidding documents may require
the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely

 
- 18 -

used in international trade and specified in the bidding
documents."

(c) Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.

2. Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 to
$1,000,000 per contract, shall be procured under contracts awarded >
on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from a list
of at least three suppliers from at least three different countries
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures

acceptable to the Bank.

3. Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $100,000
per contract, shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of price quotations obtained .from a list of at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

4. Services shall be procured in accordance with the normal |
commercial practices of the Beneficiaries, at a reasonable price,
account being taken also of other relevant factors such as the
quality of the services and the competence of the parties rendering
them. . |

Part B: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts: oo | |

(a) With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract. | ) |

(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedres
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the othec information required to be

 
~ 19 -

furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be >
made on the basis of statements of expenditure. —

2. The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph. 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. |

 
 

- 20 -

SCHEDULE 5
| Special Account
l. For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement ; :

(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

(c) the term “Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule. . |

2. ‘Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule. | |

3. After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows: | |

| (a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as

the Borrower shall have requested. , | |

(b) (i) For replenishment of the Special Account, the
| Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
deposits into the Special Account at such:
intervals as the Bank shall specify.

(41) Prior to or at.the time of each such request, the
| Borrower shall ‘furnish to the Bank the documents
~ 21 -

and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw —
from the Loan Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
have requested and as shall have been shown by
said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. |

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence. |

4. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures. | a

5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

(a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or | |

. 4

(b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date

 
-~ 22 -

of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures. |

6. (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund tc the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

(b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount. . | -

| (c) ‘The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account. | | |

(d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be eredited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, | including the General
Conditions. | : |

 
~ 23 -

SCHEDUL= 6

I. Principal Terms and Conditions of Subsidiary Loan Agreement

The principal terms and conditions set forth herein shall
apply for the purposes of Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.

A. Terms

1. The principal amount to be relent out of the proceeds of the
Loan to a PFI under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall
be: (a) denominated in dollars; and (b) the equivalent of the
aggregate amount of the principal of all Sub-loans made out of the |
proceeds thereof, provided that in the case of the AFC, the amount
of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall be reduced by the amount of
the proceeds of the Loan to be capitalized by the Borrower as agreed
by the Bank.

2. The Subsidiary Loan shall be: (a) charged, on the principal
amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
interest, during each six-month period commencing on January 1 and
- July 1 of each calendar year, at a rate equal to the Bank’s variable
Interest Rate for such period plus a margin, as shall be calculated,
on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank; and (b) repaid
over a period not exceeding 1/ years, inclusive of a grace period
not exceeding five years. |

3. The right of a PFI to the use of the proceeds of its
respective Subsidiary Loan shall be: (a) suspended upon failure of
such PFI to perform any of its obligations under its respective
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or to continue to be in compliance with
all legal and reguiatory requirements applicable to its operations;
and (b) terminated if such right shall have been suspended pursuant
to subparagraph (a) hereof for a continuous period of 90 days.

B. Conditions

 

l. A Subsidiary Loan Agreement may be entered into with a
financial banking institution, duly established and operating under
the laws of the Borrower, which: |

| (a) is in compliance with all legal and regulatory
requirements applicable to its operations;

 
- 24 -

(b) is operating pursuant to investment and lending policies
and procedures which the Bank ‘and the Bank of Latvia shall have -
judsed acceptable, and has undertaken to maintain said policies and
procedures; and | | |

| (c) has a satisfactory financial structure, determined inter
alia, on the basis of risk-based capital adequacy criteria
satisfactory to the Bank, policies and performance, and the
organization, management, staff and other resources required for the
efficient carrying out of its operations.

2. Each respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall contain
provisions pursuant to which each respective PFI shall undertake to:

(a) carry out its activities under the Project and conduct
its operations and affairs in accordance with appropriate financial
standards and practices, with qualified management and staff in
adequate numbers, and in conformity with the investment aind lending

policies and procedures referred to in paragraph B.1.(b} hereof, and —

to provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose; OO |

(b) (i) make Sub-loans to Beneficiaries on the terms and
conditions set forth in this Schedule; (ii) exercise its rights in
relation to each such Sub-loan in such manner as to protect its
interests and the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, comply
with its obligations under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement
and achieve the purposes of the Project; (iii) not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive any of its agreements providing for Sub-loans, or
any provision thereof, without prior approval of the Borrower and
the Bank; and (iv) appraise Sub-projects and supervise, monitor and
report on the carrying out by Beneficiaries of Sub-projects, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank;

(c) maintain a technical staff to be responsible for the
appraisal and supervision of the carrying out of Sub-projects with
resources and terms of reference, satisfactory to the Bank;

(d) (1) exchange views with, and furnish all such
information to the Bank and the PMU, as may be reasonably requested
by the Bank or the PMU, with regard to the progress of its
activities under the Project, the performance of its obligations
under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Project; (ii) promptly inform the
Bank of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere

 
- 25 -

ane

with the progress of its activities under its respective subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and (iii) without limitation on the foregoing,
review, at least annually, with the Borrower and the Bank the terms
and conditions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements and the Sub-loan
Agreements, including margins, and interest rate structure; and

(e) (i) maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect,
in accordance with sound accounting practices, its operations and
financial condition; (ii) have its financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank; (iii) furnish to the Bank, as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year, certified copies of said financial statements and
accounts for such year, certified copies of said financial
statements and accounts for such year as so audited, and the report
of such audit by said auditors in such scope and detail as the Bank
shall have reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish to the Bank such
other information concerning said records, accounts and financial
‘statements, as well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request. :

II. Terms _and Conditions of Sub-loans
The principal terms and conditions set forth herein shall
apply for the purpose of paragraph I.B.2.(b) of this Schedule.

A. Terms

1. The principal amount of each Sub-loan made out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be denominated and be equivalent in dollars
(determined as of the date or respective dates of withdrawal from
the Loan Account or payment out of the Special sccount) of the value
of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out on account of
the cost of goods financed out of such proceeds for the Sub-project.

2. Each Sub-loan shall be: (a) charged interest, on the principal
amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a
rate determined by the PFI making such Sub-loan in accordance with
its investment and lending policies and practices; and (b) made for
a period determined pursuant to said policies and practices and not
exceeding 12 years, inclusive of a grace period of not more than
three years. | 7 :

 
- 26 -

B. Conditions

 

3. No expenditures for goods required for a Sub-project shall be
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless:

(a) the Sub-loan for such Sub-project shall have been
approved by the Bank and such expenditures shall have been made not
earlier than 90 days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have
received the application and information required under paragraph
II.B.4.(a) below in respect of such Sub-loan, or :

(b) the Sub-loan for such Sub-project shall have been a
free-limit Sub-loan (as hereinafter defined) for which the Bank
shall have authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account and such
expenditures shall have been made net earlier than 90 days prior to
the date on which the Bank shall have received the request and
information required under paragraph II.B.4.(b) below in respect of
such free-limit Sub-loan. For the purposes hereof, a free-limit Sub-
loan shall be a Sub-loan for a Sub-project, other than the first.
three Sub-loans to be made by each PFI and other than any Sub-loan
greater than $200,000 equivalent. | : .

4. (a) When presenting a Sub-loan, other than a free-limit Sub-
loan, to the Bank for approval, the PFI shall furnish to the Bank an
application, in form satisfactory to the Bank, together with (i) a
description of the Beneficiary; (11) the appraisal of the Sub-
project, including a description of the expenditures proposed to be
€inanced out of the proceeds of the Loan; (iii) the proposed terms
and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amorti-
zation therefor; and (iv) any such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request.

(b) For each free-limit Sub-loan the PFI shall provide to
the PMU (i) a summary description of the Beneficiary and the Sub-
project, including a description of the expenditures proposed to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) the terms and
conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization
therefor. | |

(c) Applications and requests made pursuant -to the
provisions of subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be
presented to the Bank on or before June 30, 1996, or such later date
as the Bank shall establish. . |

‘\

.
LS
e
- 27 -

5. Sub-loans shall be made to Beneficiaries who each shall have
established to the satisfaction of the PFI, on the basis of
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, that it is creditworthy, and has
a satisfactory financial structure and the organization, management,
staff and financial and other resources required for the efficient
carrying out of its operations, including the carrying out of the
Sub-project.

6. Sub-loans shall be made for Sub-projects which are each
determined, on the basis of an appraisal carried out in accordance
with guidelines satisfactory to the Bank, to be technically feasible
and economically, financially and commercially viable and designed
with appropriate health, safety and environmental standards,
applicable on the territory of the Borrower and calculated to have
a financial rate of return and an economic rate of return of at
least 152 each.

7. Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the PFI making the
Sub-loan shall obtain, by written contract or other appropriate
means, rights adequate to protect its interest and those of the
- Borrower and the Bank, including the right to: |

(a) require the Beneficiary to carry out the Sub-project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
environmental, economic, financial and technical practices, to
maintain adequate records, and to provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities and other resources required for the purpose;

(b) require that the goods to be financed out of. the
proceeds of the Loan be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and use such goods exclusively in
the carrying out of the Sub-project; :

(ec) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Bank if the Bank shall so request, the goods and the sites,
works, plans and construction included in the Sub-project, the
operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;

(d) require that the Beneficiary shall take out and maintain
such insurance, against such risks and in such emounts, as shall be
consistent with sound business practice, including such insurance to
cover hazards incident to the. acgdisition, transportation and
delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the
place of use or installation, any indemnity. thereunder to be made

tT,
‘Ny

 
_28-

payable in a currency freely usable by the Beneficiary to replace or
repair such goods; |

(e) require each Beneficiary under Part B of the Project, as
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, to (i) have its financial
statements for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the PFI, and (ii) furnish to the PFI, as soon
as available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, certified copies of its financial statements
for such year as so audited, and the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope in such detail as the PFI shall have
reasonably requested; — : | |

(£) obtain all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration,
operations and financial condition of the Beneficiary and to the
benefits to be derived from the Sub-project; and

(g) suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the
use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Beneficiary to
perform its obligations under its contract with the PFI.

 
INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPM ENT |

CERTIFICATE

I hereby certify that the forégoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank

for Reconstruction and Development.

S. XL Gy

FOR SECRETARY

 
