 

po“

WL Re me : oe

BR Rem OS — “

lnoguieeee |
<i “Oh sks C7 Beef

i My Lb Buz ft

eee

ANNE E, Sali SS Fs.

LOAN NUMBER 3917-BR

Loan Agreement

- (Rural Poverty Alleviation Project - Bahia)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

and

STATE OF BAHIA

Dated July I 1995
~ LOAN NUMBER 3917 BR

LOAN AGREEMENT
- AGREEMENT, dated July /b , 1995, between INTERNATIONAL -

BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF
BAHIA (the Borrower).

WHEREAS (A) F ederative Republic of Erazil (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, .
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

(B) by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee certain obligations of
the Borrower in respect of the Loan; and

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement, |

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

(a) The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b) _ The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:

_ “Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territory
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced
in, Or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such
payment or import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII —
of the Charter of the United Nations. "
2.

(c) In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as s subparagraph (1) and a —
new subparagraph (k) is added to read: _

"(k) | An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which
any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
_ inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3

of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement." |

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:

(a) "Approved POA" tneans each approved annual operating plan referred to
in Section 3.05.(b) of this Agreement;

(b) —_ "Association" means a civil association (associacao civil) duly es ‘ablished
in the Borrower’s territory in accordance with the Guarantor’s laws, and which meets the
criteria set forth in | the Operation Manual (as hereinafter defined) for participating in the

Project; —

(c) | "Community Subproject” means a small-scale specific community

investment to be carried out by an Association utilizing the proceeds of a Grant (as
_ hereinafter defined) and which meets the criteria set forth i in the Operational Manual (as
hereinafter defined); :

(d) “Council Agreement" means each of the agreements to be entered into
between the PCU (as hereinafter defined) and an Independent Municipal Council (as
hereinafter defined), providing for the terms and conditions for the participation of such
Independent Municipal Council in the Project, including, inter alia, the making of Pilot
Grants (as hereinafter defined) by such | Independent Municipal Council; .

(e) "FUMAC Grant" means a grant in an amount equivalent to at least 59%
of a Community Subproject approved by a Municipal! Council (as hereinafter defined) and
made or proposed to be made by the PCU (as hereinafter defined) out of the proceeds of |
the Loan to an Association in a Municipality (as hereinafter defined), other than a

Municipality in which an Independent Municipal Council (as hereinafter defined) has been |
established, for the financing of such Community Subproject pursuant to the terms of the
Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined);

| (f) "Grant" means any of a FUMAC Grant or a Pilot Grant or a PAC Grant
| (the latter two as hereinafter defined);

 
-3-

(g) "Grant Agreement" means each of the agreements in the terms of the
respective Model Form (as hereinafter defined) to be entered into between: (i) an
Independent Municipal Council (as hereinafter defined) and an Association providing for
a Pilot Grant (as hereinafter defined); and (ii) PCU (as hereinafter defined) and an
Association providing for a PAC Grant (as hereinafter defined) or a FUMAC Grant;

(h) “Implementation Plan" means the plan for the overal! implementation of
the Project set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement;

(1) "Independent Municipai Council" means a municipal council with capacity
to receive and independently administer public funds, composed mainly of representatives
of the communities and local organizations and including a representative of the PCU (as
hereinafter defined), established within a Municipality (as hereinafter defined) pursuant
to the Guarantor’s laws and in accordance with the Operational Manual (as hereinafter
defined); : .

(4) "MIS" means the Project monitoring ard information system, satisfactory
to the Bank, to provide information on the Project implementation, which shall include,
inter alia, information on the Performance Indicators (as hereinafter defined), referred to
in Section 5.01 (e) of this Agreement;

(k) "Model Forms" means the set of model draft agreements satisfactory to
the Bank, including standard drafts of Counci! Agreements and Grant Agreements, set _
forth in the Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined);

(I) “Municipal Council" means a municipal council, composed mainly of ©
representatives of the communities and local organizations and including a representative
of the PCU (as hereinafter defined), established within a Municipality (as hereinafter
defined), other than a Municipality in which an Independent Municipal Council (as
hereinafter defined) has been established, pursuant to the Operational Manual (as.
hereinafter defined);

(m) "Municipality" means any of the municipalities set forth in Schedule 7 to
this Agreement and any other additional municipality that may be e agreed from time to
time by the Bank and the Borrower;

(n) "Operational Manual" means the manual, satisfactory to the Bank,
describing the criteria and procedures for the Project implementation and including the
Model Forms, referred to in Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time by agreement between the Bank and the PCU;
_4-

(0) "PAC Grant" means a grant in an amount equivalent to at least 59% of
a Community Subproject approved and made or proposed to be made by the PCU (as
hereinafter defined) out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Association for the financing
of such Community Subproject pursuant to the terms of the Operational Manual;

(p) §"“PCU" means the Project coordinating unit, the Companhia de
Desenvolvimento e Agao Regional, a public company owned by the Borrower;

(q) "PCU Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 3.01 (b)
of this Agreement;

(r) "Performance Indicators" means the set of performance indicators set forih
in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, and any other additional performance indicator that may
be agreed from time to time by the Bank and the Borrower;

(s) "Pilot Grant" means a grant in an amount equivalent to at least 59% of
a Community Subproject approved and made or proposed to be made by an Independent
Municipal Council, under a Council Agreement, out of the proceeds of the Loan to an —
Association for the financing of such Community Subproject pursuant to the terms of the
Operational Manual; |

(t} | "Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of
_ this Agreement; | |

| ARTICLE II —
The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms. and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that shall
have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of one hundred five million Dollars
($105,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each —
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from ¢ the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i)
amounts paid (or if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account cf
_ withdrawals made by the Borrower under Grants to meet the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for Community Subprojects (under Part A of the Project) in respect of
_ which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; and (ii) expenditures made (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of services

 
25.

required for Parts B and C of the Project and to be financed out of the Proceeds of the
Loan.

(b) The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or such later date as |
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor
of such later date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the.
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in
_ Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal
amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable
during such Interest Period.

(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall notify
the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of such Semester.

(c) For the purposes of this Section:

(1) —s "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date

_ immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of

this Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this
Agreement t is signed.

(11) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per
annum, of the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank’s
investments; and (B) loans which may be made by the Bank
-6-

after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise
_ than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

(111) "Semester" means the first six months or the second six months
| of a calendar year.

(d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months’ notice to
the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as
follows:

"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest | on the principal amount
of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for
each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of

1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
the Borrower shail pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
applicable during such Interest Period." |

— "%b) _AS soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

"(c) (itl) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing on
January 1, April 1, July 1 or October ] in a calendar year."

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually ci March ©
15 and September 15 in each year.

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

Section 2.08. The Executive Director of the PCU is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement 2 and Article V of the General
Conditions.
-7.
ARTICLE Ii

Execution ef the Project

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower deciares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall cause the
PCU, under the provisions of the PCU Agreement, to carry out the Project, with the
assistance of the Municipal Councils and of the Independent Municipal Councils, with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate social, adminisirative,
agricultural, environmental, financial and engineering practices, and in accordance with |
the Operational Manual, the Implementation Plan and the Approved POAs, and shall
provide or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
_ other resources required for the Project. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not amend, abrogate, suspend, waive or fail to enforce the Operational
Manual or any provision thereof.

(b) For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall enter into an
agreement with the PCU, satisfactory to the Bank (the PCU Agreement), whereby:

(1) the Borrower shall transfer to the PCU, on a | grant basis, the
‘Proceeds of the Loan;

(il) ———_s the PCU shalf undertake to carry out the Project as set forth or
referred to in this Agreement:

iii) the PCU shall undertake to enter into Council Agreements and
Grant Agreements, as the case may be, whenever appropriate for the Carrying out
of the Project, such agreements to be made in accordance with terms of the -
respective draft set forth in the Model Forms; ,

(iv) the PCU shall undertake to exercise its rights and comply with
its obligations under the PCU Agreement, the Council Agreements and the Grant
Agreements in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Bank
and the PCU and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan and, except as the Bank
and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the PCU shall not assign, amend,
abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the PCU Agreement, the Council Agreements
and the Grant Agreements or any provision thereof. )

(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligation under
the PCU Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan and, except as the Bank shall otherwise
-8-.

agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the PCU
Agreement or any provision thereof.

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods,
works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out cf the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.

| Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions, the
Borrower shall: | |

(a) prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future
operation of the Project; :

(b) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower
on said plan.

Section 3.04 The Borrower shall:

(a) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the carrying
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof:

(b) prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to
the Bank, not later than 12 months after the Effective Date, a base-line © study (perfi ] de
entrada) on the Project; |

| (c) prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to

the Bank. on or about a date 33 months after the Effective Date, a report integrating the
results of the evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on
the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the
date of such report, and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient.
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period
following such date; and |

(d) review with the Bank, by a date three years after the Effective Date, or
such later date as the Bank shail request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
-9.-
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:

(a) in the month of October of each year during the carrying out of the
Project, prepare and furnish to the Bank the proposed annual operating wlans and budget,
satisfactory to the Bank, detailing the Project activities proposed to be carried out during
the next succeeding year and the respective budgetary proposal.

(b) not later than 30 days after the approval of the Borrower’s budget by its
Assembleéia Legislativa (Legislative Assembly), furnish to the Bank the approved annual
operating plans and respective budget (Approved POA), detailing the Project activities to
be carried out during the next succeeding year and the respective budgetary allocation.

Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:

(a) in each month during the carrying out of the Project, beginning in the
second month after the Effective Date, prepare utilizing the MIS and furnish to the Bank
a report on the disbursements under the Project during the previous month (disbursement _
report), of such scope and detail as the Bank shall request; oS |

—(b) in the months of January and July of each year during the carrying out
of the Project, prepare utilizing the MIS and furnish to the Bank a report on the
implementation of the Project during the previous six months (performance report), of
such scope and detail as the Bank shall request, which shall include, inter alia,
information on the carrying out of Community Subprojects and their results.

Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:

| (a) in the twelfth month after the Effective Date, furnish to the Bank the
results and recommendations of a study, carried out under terms of reference Satisfactory
to the Bank, on the cost structure and results of Community Subprojects, including
physical performance evaluation, cost comparisons and procurement procedures
assessment; | | |

(b) review with the Bank the results and recommendations of such study; and

(ec) take or cause to be taken all such action which shall have been agreed by
the Bank and the Borrower during the review referred to in paragraph (b) above, as
necessary for the efficient execution of the Project and the achievement of its objectives,
such action to be taken in a manner and within a timetable agreed upon during such |
reviews. |
-10-
ARTICLE IV |

Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project, of the departments
or agencies of the Borrower or other entities responsible for the carrying out of the
Project or any part thereof. |

(b) The Borrower shall:

@

(ii)

(111)

have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section and the records and accounts for the Special
Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
records and accounts, and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.

(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account |
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

(i)

(il)

(iii)

 

maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounis reflecting
such expenditures; :

retain, or cause to be retained, until at least one year after the
Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of
the Special Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;

enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and —
-iIil-

(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to

support the related withdrawals. | :

ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination |

Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) « of the
General Conditions: —

(a) that the Borrower has adopted the Operational Manual in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank;

(b) — that the PCU Agreement has been executed by the parties thereto;

(c) that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be performed or given
by the Guarantor, the Borrower or any agency thereof, or otherwise to be performed or
given in order to authorize the carrying out of the Project and to enable the Guarantor and
the Borrower to perform their respective obligations pursuant to the Guarantee Agreement
and this Agreement, together with all necessary powers and rights in connection therewith,
have been performed or given; __

| (d) that this Agreement has been duly registered by the Guarantor’s Central
~ Bank; and . | | : |

| (e) that the Borrower has adopted the MIS in form and substance Satisfactory |
to the Bank. 7

Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or
opinions to be furnished to the Bank: |

(a) that this Agreement has been duly registered by the Guarantor’s Central
_ Bank; and | |
-12-

(b) that all necessary acts, consents and approvals, together with all necessary
powers and rights in connection therewith, have been duly and validly performed or
given and that no such other acts, consents or approval are required in order to authorize
the carrying out of the Project and to enable the Guarantor and the Borrower to perform |
their respective covenants, agreements and obligations contained in the Guarantee
Agreement and this Agreement, respectively.

Section 5. 03. The date 0 ctober lly, 442 is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 6.01. The Secretary of the Secretariat of Planning, Science and
Technology of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. .

Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Bank:

International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cabie address: | Telex:
INTBAFRAD 248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C. 82987 (FTCC)

64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)

For the Borrower:

Secretaria do Planejamento, Ciéncia e Tecnologia
Av. Luiz Viana Filho 250 - Conjunto SEPLANTEC

 
-13-

Centro Administrativo da Bahia / CAB
41745-000 Salvador, Bahia
Brazil

Telex: (71) 7105
- With copy to SEAIN:

Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais -SEAIN

Ministério do Planejamento e Orcamento

Esplanada dos Ministérios - Bloco K - 5° andar

70040-906 Brasilia, DF

Brazil a
Telex: (61) 1146

IN WITNESS WHERECTF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized

_ representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in
Salvaclor, Bahia ,Brael , as of the day and year first above written.

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR _
~ RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

[s/ James D- Wolf ensohnn
By”

President

STATE OF BAHIA

By /s/ Paulo Souto

Authorized Repyesentative
- 14-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the

percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

Amount of the

Loan Allocated — % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Dollar to be |
Category Equivalent) Financed
(1) Grants a 59% of the
| cost of the

_ respective Commu-
nity Subproject

(a) FUMAC Grants ~ 45,400,000
(b) Pilot Grants | 9,000,000
(c) PAC Grants 30,000,000 —
(2) Consultants’ | | 8,800,000 100%
services and
training for
Parts B and C
of the Project
(3) Administrative a 1,400,000 20%
Costs _ :
(4) Unallocated Oo 10,400,000

TOTAL = ~——_- $05,000,000
-15-

2. For the purposes of this Schedule the term "Administrative Costs" means the |
incremental operational costs of the PCU under Part C of the Project, excluding salaries _
and related benefits, consultants’ services and training.

3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be
made in respect of:

(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;

*(b) payments made for a Grant unless the respective Grant Agreement shall have
been entered into between the parties thereto; and .

(c) unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments for a Community Subproject
estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $50,000.

4. The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (i) under contracts for goods and
works costing less than the equivalent of $100,000; (ii) for services of: individual
consultants under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; and (iii) for services of |
consulting firms under contracts.not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, all under such terms —
and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
- 16-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project

The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower’s efforts to alleviate rural
poverty in the Municipalities by: (1) providing basic social and economic infrastructure,
and employment and income generating opportunities; (ii) supporting rural community
groups in planning and implementing their own subprojects; (iii) providing a safety net
for the rural poor; and (iv) leveraging revenue mobilization at the community and
municipal levels.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:

Part A: Community Subprojects

| Financing of Community Subprojects through the provision of F UMAC Grants,
Pilot Grants or PAC Grants.

Part B: Institutional Development

l. Carrying out of a basic introductory capacity building program for
Municipal Councils and Independent Municipal Councils.

2. Provision of training for the PCU, Independent Municipal Councils and
Municipal Councils.

3.0 Provision of technical assistance to participating communities, including,
inter alia, community mobilization and organization, preparation of subprojects, and
| operation and maintenance of investments.

4. Carrying out of workshops and seminars for Municipal Councils,
Independent Municipal Councils and Associations, to exchange experiences under the
Project.

Part C: Project Administration

Support the overail Project implementation, coordination and supervision
including, inter alia:

1, the operation of the PCU and its field offices related to Project implementation; |
_17-
2. ‘the establishment and operation of the MIS;

3. the carrying out of state-wide information campaigns to disseminate information
about the Project; and | : .

4. the carrying out of Project evaluation studies, including, inter alia, performance
reviews and impact evaluations.

* * *

The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

| | . Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due (expressed in dollars)*

On each March 15 and September 15

beginning March 15, 2001
through September 15, 2010 | ~ §,250,000

*The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the respective
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
2 19-
Premiums on Prepayment

Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below: |

Time of Prepayment a Premium

The interest rate
(expressed as a _
percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on
the day of prepayment
multiplied by:

Not more than three years _ 0.20
before maturity

More than three years but | 0.40
not more than six years
before maturity

More than six years but | 0.73.
not more than 11 years
before maturity

More than 11 years but not | 0.87
more than 13 years” |
before maturity

More than 13 years before 1.00
maturity |

 
. 20-
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section ia _ Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: General

_ Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section
I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section,
as applicable. |

Part B: Procurement Procedures

l. National Competitive Bidding ©

Except as provided in Parts B.2, B.3 and B.4, sods and works financed by
Grants under Part A of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. In the
procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part B.1, the Borrower shall use |
the relevant model bidding documents acceptable to the Bank.

2. National Shopping for Goods

| Except as provided in Part B.4 hereof, goods financed by Grants under Part A of
the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $16,500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of

| paragraph 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. |

3. Procurement of Small Works

_ Except as provided in Part B.4 hereof, works financed by Grants under Part A of
the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $27,500,000, shall be procured under lump sum, fixed
price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed
description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a
basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable.
The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the —

 
-2]-

‘required work, and who has the experience and resources to successfully complete the
contract.

4. Community Participation

Goods and works financed by Grants under Part A of the Project for Community
Subprojects of up to $50,000 equivalent and procured by an Association, may be procured
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank as provided in paragraph 3.15 of
the Guidelines (including direct contracting in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines) as detailed in the Operational Manual.

Part C: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1. Prior Review

With respect to each contract to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part B.1
of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.

2. Post Review

With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. ©

Part D: Special Provisions

Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the
Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement of goods and/or works to be
undertaken pursuant to Part B.1 hereof: a

1. Contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined to be the
lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever appropriate, to _
also take into account factors similar to those referred to in paragraph 2.51 of the
Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall always be based on factors
that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for such quantification shall be |
disclosed in the invitation to bid.

2. Whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised for at
least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide circulation in Brazil. |

3. The arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for a joint-venture (cons6rcio) of
Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank in each case.

 
2192-

4. The invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of bids,
minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices.

5. The purchaser shall not, without the Bank’s prior approval, issue any change order
under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the quantity of
goods (and related services) without any change in the unit prices or other terms and
conditions of sale. | | —

Part E: Other

| For purposes of this Schedule and the Guidelines the term custom duties and other

import taxes includes the Guarantor’s Freight Surcharge for the Renewal of the Merchant
Marine (Adicional ao Frete para a Renovacio da Marinha Mercante - AFRMM),
established by Decree Law 1.142 of December 30, 1970, as amended on December 31,
- 1987, or any other tax, levy or charge that, in the reasonable opinion of the Bank, may
substitute it, in whole or in part, after January 1, 1988.

 

Section II. Employment of Consultants

l. In order to assist the PCU in the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall
cause the PCU to employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be —
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant
Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall cause the PCU to
employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants’ services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been
agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by
the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.

2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of
the Consuitant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall
not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less
than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the employment of individuals
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank
review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source
selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting .
firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to

 
-23-

contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to
$50,000 equivalent or above. |

 
- 24 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
l. For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3) set forth in
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

(b) the term "eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule | to this Agreement; and

(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $7,000,000
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Speciai Account pursuant
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$3,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
930,000,000. : .

2. Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

3. After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account |
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:

| (a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

(b) (1) For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall
| furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.

Gi) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall
_ furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required

 
~25- |

pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On
the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have |
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for
eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by said documents and other evidence.

4, For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures. |

5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

| (a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the |
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or |

(b) if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the
records and accounts for the Special Account;

(c) if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or

(d) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as —

 
- 26 -

the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6. (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or,
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall
_ otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.

(b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible |
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank
such outstanding amount.

(c) ‘The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

(d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.

 
-27.
SCHEDULE 6

Implementation Plan and Performance Indicators

For purposes of this Schedule, the term "Beneficiaries" means the members of an
Association and any other person receiving a direct benefit from the results of the

implementation of a Community Subproject.

Part A: Implementation Plan |

ACTIVITIES
First training activity offered to:
_ -Associations —
-communities
-Municipal Councils
-Independent Municipal Councils

-PCU

Preparation of annual program of
training and technical assistance

Publicity campaign ©
-preparation
-launching
No. of standard designs for
infrastructure made (aggregate):

— +15 designs
-40 designs

Evaluation studies:

-physical performance reviews —

COMPLETED BY

May of 1996

July of 1996

March of 1996
March of 1996
February of 1996

October of each year

of Project implemen-
tation

December of 1995
February of 1996;
and February 1998

December of 1995
December of 1996

February of each year
of Project implemen-
tation, beginning in 1977

 
- 28 -

-Impact evaluation: a | |
-baseline | December of 1996

-mid-term | _ September of 1998
-final | _ May of 2001

Part B: Performance Indicators

l. Community Subprojects
No. of Community Subprojects implemented -

-infrastructure
—-social —
_ -productive

No. of Beneficiaries (under Community Subprojects)

- ~-Total
-Y% women |
-women as % of productive Community Subprojects

No. of Associations

No. of Municipalities attended

No. of Municipal Councils established |
No. of Independent Municipal Councils established

2. _—_ Institutional Development
No. of persons trained from:
_-Associations
-communities
_ -Municipal Councils
-Independent Municipal Councils

- -PCU

No. of courses, seminars and other training activities offered to:

-Associations
-communities
-Municipal Councils

 
- 29 -

-Independent Municipal Councils
-PCU

Project Administration

No. of publicity campaigns launched
No. of evaluation studies |

 
Baixo Médio Sao Francisco Region

1. Campo Alegre de Lourdes
2. Casa Nova
3. Curaca
4. Juazeiro
5. Pilao Arcado
6. Kemanso
7. Sento Sé
8. Sobradinho
Chapada Diamantina Region
4, Abaira |
2. Andarai
3. Barra da Estiva |
4. Boninal
5. Bonito
6. Boquira
7. Botupora
—~8. Brotas de Macatibas
9. Caturama
10. Erico Cardoso
11. Ibicoara ©
12. Ibipitanga
13. —‘ [bitiara —
14. Ipupiara
15. Iramaia
16. Traquara
17. Jussiape
18.  Lengdis
19. = Macatibas
20. Mucugé
21. Nova Redencao —
22. Novo Horizonte _
23. Oliveira dos Brejinhos
24. Palmeiras
25. Paramirim
26. Piata
27. Rio de Contas

- 30 -
SCHEDULE 7

Municipalities

Rio do Pires
Seabra

~ Souto Soares

Tanque Novo
Utinga
Wagner

Irece Region

CPN AM SP WN DS

10.
11.
12.
13.
‘14,
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.

América Dourada
Barra do Mendes
Barro Alto
Cafarnatim
Canarana
Central

Gentio do Ouro
Ibipeba

Ibitita

Irecé

Itaguagu da Bahia
Joio Dourado
Jussara

_ Lapa&o

Mulungu do Morro

~ Presidente Dutra

Sao Gabriel
Uibai
Xique-Xique

_ Litoral Norte Region |

AMP YN DS

Acajutiba
Apora
Inhambupe —

-Ourigangas

Rio Real
Satiro Dias

Medio Sao Francisco Region
OPN NMNPWN >

-31-

Barra

Bom Jesus da Lapa

-Brejolandia
- Buritirama

Carinhanha

Feira da Mata
Ibotirama

Twiu

Malhada

Matina

Morpara

Muqueém de Sao Francisco
Paratinga |
Riacho de Santana
Serra do Ramalho
Sitio do Mato

Nordeste Region

OMNI ANAWN

Abaré
Adustina
Agua Fri

Antas

Araci
Banzaé ©
Biritinga

_ Cansancao

Canudos
Chorrocho

Cicero Dantas
Cipo :
Concei¢ao Coité
Coronel Joao Sa
Crisdpolis
Euclides da Cunha
Fatima |
Gloria

Helidpolis
Itapicuru

Jeremoabo

Lamarao

-Macurure

Monte Santo

Nordestina
Nova Soure
Novo Triunfo
Olindina
Paripiranga
Paulo Afonso
Pedro Alexandre
Queimadas

Quijingue

Retirolandia

Ribeira do Amparo

Ribeira do Pombal

Rodelas

Santa Brigida

Santaluz |
Sao Domingos
Serrinha

Sitio do Quinto
Teofilandia
Tucano.

Uaua

Valente

Oeste Region

Angical
Baianopolis
Canapol:s
Catolancia
Cocos

Coribe

Correntina

-Cristépolis

Jaborandi

Santa Maria da Vitoria
Santa Rita de Cassia
Santana |

- Sao Desiderio

Sdo Felix do Coribe
Serra Dourada |
Tabocas do Brejo Velho

 
- 32-

Paraguacu Region

Amélia Rodrigues
Anguera

Antonio Cardoso
Baixa Grande

Boa Vista do Tupim
Candeal

Capela do Alto Alegre
Coracao de Maria
Feira de Santana
Gaviao

lagu |

Ibiquera

Ichu -

Ipecaeta

Ipira

Jrara .
Itaberaba —

Itaeté

Lajedinho
Macajuba

Mairi

Marcionilio Souza
Mundo Novo
Nova Fatima

Pé de Serra >
Pintadas

Piritiba

Rafael Jambeiro
Riachao do Jacuipe
Ruy Barbosa
Santa Barbara
Santanopolis

Santo Estevao

- $30 Goncalo dos Campos |

Serra Preta
Tanquinho

_ Tapiramuta

Teodoro Sampaio
Terra Nova —
Varzea da Roga

OONIDMHAWN —

Piemonte Diamantina Region
Andorinhas

Antonio Gongalves
Caém

Caldeirao Grande
Campo Formoso |
Capim Grosso
Filadelfia

Itidba

Jacobina

CANN UW SYN

10. Jaguarari —

11. Miguel Calmon
12. Mirangaba

13. Morro do Chapéu
14. QOurolandia

15. Pindoba¢gu

16. Ponto Novo

17. Quixabeira

18. S40 José do Jacuipe
19. Satide

20. Senhor do Bonfim
21.  Serrolandia

22. Umburanas

23... Varzea do Poco

24. Varzea Nova

Reconcavo Sul Region |
Amargosa

Brejdes

_ Cabaceiras do Paraguac¢u
Castro Alves
Elisio Medrado
Governador Mangabeira
Itatim |
Milagres
Muritiba

10. Nova Itarana

11. Santa Teresinha

12. Santo Amaro

13. Sapeacgu

14. Ubaira

15. Varzedo

 
Serra Geral Region

Sudoeste

1.
2.
3.
4,
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.

Aracatu
Brumado
Caculé
Caetité
Candiba
Condeuba
Contendas do Sincora
Cordeiros
Dom Basilio
Guageru
Guanambi
Ibiassucé

Igapora —

Ituacu

Jacaraci

Lagoa Real

Licinio de Almeida
Livramento do Brumado
Maetinga

Malhada de Pedras
Mortugaba

Palmas de Monte Alto
Pindai | |
Piripa |
Presidente Janio Quadros
Rio do Antonio
Sebastiao Laranjeiras
Tanhacsu

Urandi

-Anageé

Barra do Choca
Belo Campo

Boa Nova

Bom Jesus da Serra

- Caatiba

Caetanos
Candido Sales
Caraibas
Cravolandia

- 33 -

Encruzilhada
Irajuba —
Itaquara

Itirucu

Itororé |
Jaguaquara
Jequié

Lafaiete Coutinho
Lajedo do Tabocal
Maiquinique
Manoel Vitorino
Maracas |

~ Mirante

Planaltino

Planalto

Pocdes

Ribeirao do Largo
Santa Inés
Tremedal

Vitoria da Conquista

 
INTERNATIONAL BANK |
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

~ CERTIFICATE

I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank

~ for Reconstruction and Development.

la

| FOR SECRETARY |

 
