OFFICIAL
| DOCUMENTS |

LOAN NUMBER 3969-DOM
CLEMT 2fo03- bom

Loan Agreement

(Basic Education Reform Project)
between
COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

patea MARCH /4 —, 1996

 

 
“LOAN AGREEMENT NUMBER 3969-DOM
LOAN AGREEMENT |

_ AGREEMENT, dated MM ARCH i , 1996, between
COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONS TRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement
between the Borrower and the International Development Association (the Association)
of even date herewith (the Development Credit Agreement), has requested the Bank to
assist in the financing of the Project;

| (B) ~ the Borrower has also requested the Association to provide additional
financial assistance towards the financing of the Project and by the Development Credit
Agreement the Association is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to two million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR | 2,100 ,000) (the Credit);

(C) the Borrower and the Bank intend, to the extent practicable, that the -
proceeds of the Credit be disbursed on account of expenditures in respect of the Project
before disbursements of the proceeds of the loan provided for in this Agreement are
made; and

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia. of the foregoing, to
extend the loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
_ Agreement; | .

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

_ ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Single Currency Loan and
Guarantee Agreemzats for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (the
General Conditic 18) |

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the Preamble to this Agreement, the General Conditions and in the Development Credit.
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the term "Development

Credit Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and
-2-

the Association for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time, _
and such term includes the "General Conditions Applicabie to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such agreement, and
all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Development Credit Agreement.

ARTICLE I
The Loan |

_ Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to three
million seventy thousand Dollars (33, 070,000).

Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account
_ in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
the Development Credit Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date as the
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the |
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of.
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. |

Section 2.06. Interest and < other charges s shall be payable i in arrears on F ebruary
15 and August 15 in each year.

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
~3-
ARTICLE I

Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. (a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section, Section 2.02 (b) and

_ Articles III and IV of the Development Credit Agreement and Schedules 1, 2, 3 and 4

thereto are incorporated in the Loan Agreement, with the following modifications in said
Section, Articles and Schedules unless the context otherwise requires:

(i) _ the term "Association" shall be read as "Bank";

(11) the term "Credit" and "Credit Account" shall be read as "Loan" —
and "Loan Account"; |

(iii) the term "General Conditions" shall be read as "General
| Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreemen " of
the Bank dated January L, 1985; and

(iv) the references to Sections 9.06 (a) (iii), 9.06 (c) and 9.07 of the
General Conditions shall be read as references to Sections 9.07
(a) (iti), 9.07 (c) and 9.08 of the General Conditions.

(b) — So long as any part of the Credit provided for under the Development
Credit Agreement shall remain outstanding and unless the Borrower has been notified
| otherwise by the Bank: |

(i) all actions taken, including approvals given, by the Association
pursuant to the Section or the Articles of, and the Schedules to,
the Development Credit Agreement enumerated in paragraph (a)
of this Section, as well as pursuant to Section 2.02 (a) of the
Development Credit Agreement, shall be deemed to be taken or
given in the name and on behalf of both the Association and the

Bank; and

(ii) all information or documentation furnished by the Borrower to
the Association pursuant to any of such provisions of the
Development Credit Agreement shall be deemed to be furnished

to both the Association and the Bank.

 
-4-
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination

Section 4.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement shall have been fulfilled, other than those related to the
effectiveness of this Agreement. — |

| Section 4.02. The dae J UN F | 7  , 1996 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. a

Section 5.03. If the Development Credit Agreement terminates prior to the
termination of this Agreement, the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement
referred to in this Agreement shail continue in full force and effect between the Borrower
and the Bank. :
- 5 -_
ARTICLE VI

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

| Section 6.01. The Minister of Education, Sports and Youth Affairs of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.

Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministry of Finance,
Industry and Planning
Government Headquarters
Kennedy Avenue
Roseau, Dominica

Telefax: 8 oe Telex:
(809) 448-0054 8613 EXT DO
For the Bank:
International Bank for

Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address: Telex:
INTBAFRAD 248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C. 82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUD) or

197688 (TRT)

 
- 6 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized

representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA

» 2/10" P. RicHARDS

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK. FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

/3/ SHAHID JAVED BR KI

Regional Vice President _
Latin America and the Caribbean

By
-7-
SCHEDULE 1
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A. General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings.

(a) "Disbursed Amount" means, in respect of each Interest Period, the
- aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such
Interest Period. :

(b) "Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the date of
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, and
after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest Payment date to, but
excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date.

(c) "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement. — | :

(d) "Rate Fixing Date" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of
the Interest Period next followin g the Interest Period in which ‘such Disbursed Amount
is withdrawn.

B. Interest

1.‘ The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from its
_ Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.

2. (a) From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount _
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed
Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the applicable:
(i): LIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii) = LIBOR Total Spread.
(b) - From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final |

repayment thereof, interest ‘on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the
applicable: | |
_ 8 -
(i) Fixed Base Rate; plus”
(ii) Fixed Total Spread.

3. For purposes of paragraph Z of this Part B, the following terms have the
- following meanings. | |

(a)  "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed
_ Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars
for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period,
_ for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date preceding the first day of such
Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per
annum. .

(b) “"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for the Interest Period in which each
Disbursed Amount 1 is withdrawn:

(i) one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);

(11) minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest _
Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered rates, or
other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the —
Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by
the Bank to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made —

_ by it that include such Disbursed Amount for such Interest
~ Period;

_as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.

(c) “Fixed Base Rate" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of
_ the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value on the Rate
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based
_ on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such Disbursed
Amount, as s reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
~~ 9g -
(d) - "Fixed Total Spread" means, for each Disbursed Amount:

(i) one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);

(ii) | + minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing
Date for such Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London
interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or
portions thereof allocated to fund single currency loans or —
portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed
Amount; plus

(111) the Bank’s risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for
| such Disbursed Amount; |

as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.

4. The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread,
Fixed Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly
_ upon the determination thereof.

5. Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of |
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the interest
of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest
rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the Bank may modify
the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of the Loan not yet
withdrawn upon not less than six months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in "Which case said
modification shall not apply to the Loan.

Cc. - Repayment

1. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall repay
each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semi-annual installments payable on each February
15 and August 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh Interest Payment
_ Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the last such
_ installment to be payable on the eighteenth Interest Payment Date following the Rate
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall be one-twelfth (1/ 2) of
such Disbursed Amount.
= 10 -

2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said
paragraph 1, be payable after February, 15, 2011, the Borrower shall also pay on said date
the aggregate amount of all such installments.

3. After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.

 
INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELGPMENT

CERTIFICATE

I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank

for Reconstruction and Development.

SW
FOR SECRETARY

 
