   

EE SEES |

§ screenees encssncreecbt ee: PERE ER

tment
* :
% A
- +, %
at
2h
+ we
we tM
bat
a” _*
i” < _ ~ nT
a mz ¥
gee
* : 4
* ¥
aa hee
iy = oe
ty
fo A ya
; 2-04 x
iat Ae
Behe
A
* te
wi

LOAN NUMBER 3960 KZ

Loan Agreement

{Structural Adjustment Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated “Jone /2 1995

 

 
LOAN NUMBER 3%00 KZ
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT, dated Yama /& , 1995, between
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS (A) The Bank has received from the Borrower a letter dated May 5,
1995, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve
structural adjustment of the Borrower's economy (the Program), declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in
the financing of urgently needed imports required during such execution; and

(B) On the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in support
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan in two
tranches as hereinafter provided;

 

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions |

| Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bonk, dated January 1, 1985, with the mcdifications thereof set forth
below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

(a) _ Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:

"Project' means the imports and other activities that may be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan
Agreement."; ,

(b) Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:

"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower
shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the program referred to in
the Preambie to the Loan Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the
Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."; | .
(c) The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and

(da) In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (1) and a
new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the
provisions of Article II, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."

| Section 1.02. Uuless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth, and the term "SITC" means the Standard International Trade
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical
_ Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986). | |

ARTICLE I~
The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees t., lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions
set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that shall have an
aggregate value equivalent to the amount. of one hundred eighty million Dollars
($80,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Banik as of the date of such withdrawal.

Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996, or such later date as
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount it of the Loan
not withdrawn from time to time. —

Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal
to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
.3-

Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest

Period.

(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such

Semester. |

(c) - For the purposes of this Section:

(i)

(ii)

(iii)

"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this |
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this

_ Agreement is signed.

"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum,
of the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June
30, 1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the
Bank has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B)
loans which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
interest rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph
(a) of this Section.

"Semester" means the first SIX months or the second six months of
a calendar year.

(d)  Onsuch date a as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice to
the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (ili) of this Section shall be amended to read as_ |

follows:

"(a)

_ The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the

_ Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal
to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding —
Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the
rates applicable during such Interest Period."
~4-—

"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualitied Borrowings determined in
respect of such Quarter." . |

"(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing on
January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
February 1 and August 1 in each year.

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

~ Section 2.08. The Borrower shall, to the extent practicable, consolidate withdrawal |
applications under the Loan so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not less |
than one million Dollars ($1,000 000).

ARTICLE it
Particular Covenants |

- Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying ¢ out the Program and
the actions specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

(b) Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the —
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.

(c) ‘Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the
| Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken after the
disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing the
objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action
specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. |

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods
to be finance out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
| Schedule 3 to this Agreement. |

 
5.

Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
-and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

(b) The Borrower shall: —

(i)

(ii)

(111)

have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this

Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appro-

priate auditing princtples consistently applied, by independent

auditors accentable to the Bank;

_ furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later |

than six (6) months after the end of each such year, a certified —
copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shail have reasonably requested; —
and | oe |

furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request. |

(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

(i)

(11)

(iii)
(iv)

 

maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such
expenditures;

retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the

audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, —
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents, or customs
certificates, as appropriate) evidencing such expenditures;

enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and

ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
audits referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as.
to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such
-6-

fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls
involved in their preparation,can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (I) of the General Conditions, the following
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 6.01. The Borrower's Minister of Finance is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions: | |

For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
97 Ablai-Khan Avenue
Almaty, 480091
Republic of Kazakhstan

Telex:

251 245 FYLIN

 
For the Bank:
International Bank for
_ Reconstruction and Development.
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
_ Cable address: Telex:
INTBAFRAD 197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C. 248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or

82987 (FTCC)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the —
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN

By /s| Tule ttar Sa lermenow-

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s / futon Huan
- fp A cf 4 Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
-g-

SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1. Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the proceeds of
the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account for expenditures made (or, if the Bank _
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the
execution of the Program and to be financed out of such proceeds.

2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be
made in respect of:

| (a) expenditures for goods included in the following sITC groups or sub-
groups, or any successor groups or sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC, as"
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:

Group Sub-gr oup | Description of Item 5
112 a - : Alcoholic beverages
121 i oe - Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
| refuse
4122 | - Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not

containing tobacco substitutes)
S250 oe _._ Radioactive and associated materials

667 : - Pearls, precious and semi-precious
| stones, unworked or worked

718 718.7 Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof, fuel
| | | elements (cartridges), non-irradiated for
for nuclear reactors

728.43 | - | Tobacco processing machinery

 
Group Sub-group Des crip tion of Items
897 897.3 | Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group

metals (except watches and watch cases)
and goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares
(including set gems)

971 | - Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores
| and concentrates)

(b) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods supplied from
the territory of the Borrower;

(c) payments made prior to the date of this Agreement for expenditures,
except that withdrawals in an aggregate arnount not exceeding the equivalent of thirty six
million Dollars ($36,000,000) may be made on account of payments made for such |
expenditures before that date but after February 15, 1995;

| (d) expenditures for goods procured under contracts less than five thousand
Dollars ($5,000) equivalent;

(e) expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank shall have financed or
agreed to finance; and

(f) expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military purpose or
for luxury consumption.

3. Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the procurement. of goods
estimated to cost less than three million Dollars ($3,000,000) may be permitted by the
Bank upon the basis of statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions as the
Bank shall specify. :

4. No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay —
amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from
the Loan Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have reached the
equivalent of ninety million Dollars ($90,000,000), unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after
-10-

_an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, based on evidence
satisfactory to the Bank: (a) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out
of the Program; (b) that the actions described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been
- taken; and (c) that the inacro-economic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent
with the objectives of the Program, as measured on the basis of indicators satisfactory to
~ the Bank. . | a

5. __ If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 4 above, the Bank shall have
given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved and actions taken are not
satisfactory and, within ninety (90) days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have
achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, then the Bank may, by notice
to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof.

 
-ll-)

SCHEDULE 2

Amortization Schedule

| | Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 1 and August 1

beginning February 1, 2001

through February 1,2012 | 7,500,000
On August 1, 2012 7,500,000
* The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the

respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
-12-

Premiums on Prepayment

Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below: |

Time of Prepayment | a | Premium

The interest rate (expressed as a
percentage per annum) applicable to the
Loan on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:

Not more than three years 0.18
-_ before maturity

More than three years but | 0.30
not more than six years | |
before maturity

More than six years but | | 0.65
not more than 1] years |
before maturity

More than 11 years but not | OO 0.88
more than 15 years |
before maturity

More than 15 years | | 1.00
before maturity |

 
-13-

SCHEDULE 3
Procurement

l. Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of three
million Dollars ($3,000,000) or more each shall be awarded through international
competitive bidding in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in Mey 1992 (the Guidelines), subject to the following
modifications and additions: |

(a) Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the following is substituted
therefor: | | |

"2.8 Notification and Advertising

The international community should be notified in a timely
manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by advertising
invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's invitation list, to apply for
prequalification, or to bid; such advertisements should be placed in at least
one newspaper of general circulation in the Borrower's country and, in |
addition, in at least one of the following forms:

(i) a notice in the United Nations publication, Development Business;
or | |
(ii) an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or technical journal of

wide international circulation; or

(ili) a notice to local representatives of countries and _ territories
referred to in the Guidelines, that are potential suppliers of the
goods required. "

‘(b) ~~‘ The following i is added at the end of paragraph : 2.21 of the Guidelines:
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require the
bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely used in —

international trade and specified in the bidding documents."

(c) Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
_14-

(d) | When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period,
such period may be extended once, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete the
evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract. The bid
validity period may be extended a second time only if the bidding documents or the request
for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid price to reflect changes in
the cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. Such an increase in the bid
price shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.

(ec) In the procurement of goods in accordance with this paragraph 1, the
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such
modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the
Loan. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the
Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard
forms agreed with the Bank. |

2. Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less
than three million Dollars ($3,000,000) shall be awarded:

(a) by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public procurement
procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of such procedures, provided that
such procedures shall have been found acceptable by the Bank; and

(b) by other purchasers, in accordance with established commercial practice,
provided that such contracts shall be awarded on the basis of evaluation and comparison of
quotations obtained from suppliers from at least two countries, except that direct
contracting procedures acceptable to the Bank may be used where considered appropriate
under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines. ©

3.0” Subject to the prior approval of the Bank, commonly traded commodities may be
procured through organized international commodity markets or other channels of
competitive procurement acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Bank.

4. With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, the
- Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids and
recommendations for award, a description of the advertising and tendering procedures
followed and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. |

 
-15-

5. With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect thereof, such
documentation and information as the Bank may reasonably request to > support withdrawal
applications 1 in respect of such contract. |

6. The provisions of the preceding paragrapn 5 of this Schedule shall not apply to
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure.
-16-

SCHEDULE 4

_ Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (b) ©
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement

1, Offer for sale through auctions under the National Privatization Program
established pursuant to Presidential Decree No. 1135, dated March 5, 1993, all of the
Borrower’s shares in the Borrower’s grain storage facilities (elevators), except in those
facilities which the Bank agrees are required to meet direct consumption requirements of
the Borrower’s government’s agencies and entities. |

2. Adopt a plan to privatize fully, within one year, in each of the three operating
regions of the Borrower’s petroleum product distribution companies, at least 60 percent

Of objects in the retail distribution area and at least 50 percent of bulk terminals

belonging to such companies, and initiate the implementation of such a plan.

3. Adopt in the Borrower’s Council of Ministers a proposed land legislation for
submission to the Borrower’s parliament, reviewed with the Bank, covering, inter alia,
land tenure, use and transfer.

4. Offer for sale through public auctions an average of 500 establishments and an
average of 500 trucks included in the Borrower’s Small Scale Privatization, established
pursuant to Presidential Decree No. 1135, dated March 5, 1993, per calendar month,
' following April 30, 1995.

5. Offer for privatization through auctions against privatization investment coupons
only, a majority ownership in an average of 150 majority state-owned enterprises
designated for the Borrower’s Mass Privatization Program, pursuant to Presidential
Decree No. 1135, dated March 5, 1993, per calendar month, following April 30, 1995.

| 6. Adopt a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to reduce the Borrower’s ownership in
_ firms included in the Borrower’s Mass Privatization Program referred to in paragraph 5
_ of this Schedule 4, to less than 30 percent.

7. Fund the 1995 operations of the Borrower’s Rehabilitation Trust, established
pursuant to Presidential Decree No. 2154, dated March 29, 1995, in accordance with
national budgetary appropriation; transfer the bank accounts of all enterprises assigned
to the Rehabilitation Trust to such trust; and initiate legal proceedings for liquidation or
other forms of debt resolution available under the Borrower’s Decree (Law) on
Bankruptcy No. 2173, dated April 7, 1995 against at least four (4) such enterprises. —

 
-17-

8. Enact legislation providing for satisfactory scale of and entitlement to
unemployment benefits, with the minimum level of such benefits being equal to at least
three (3) times the base numerate established pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No.
2120, dated March 15, 1995, or any other law establishing said base numerate.
INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

CERTIFICATE

[ hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the I nternational Bank

for Reconstruction and Development.

R

FOR SECRETARY

 
