Public Disclosure Authorized

 

LOAN NUMBER 3889-TH

Loan Agreement

(Clean Fuels and Environmental

Public Disclosure Authorized

Improvement Project)

between

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

and

THE BANGCHAK PETROLEUM PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED

pated ~iaplowhe) BY , igg5

 

 

 
LOAN NUMBER 388°9-TH
- LOAN’ AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT, dated Koj Cauber Al , 1995 between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and THE BANGCHAK
PETROLEUM PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED (the Borrower) .

WHEREAS: (A) Kingdom of Thailand (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

(B) by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as are set forth in

the Guarantee Agreement; |

WHEREAS the Bank hns agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement ; and |

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as Follows:

ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Aoplicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement :

(a) The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

(b) In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (1) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section
3 of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth.

 
ARTICLE II
The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, |
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to.
the amount of ninety million dollars ($96,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by che Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. :

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date. |

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per. ant (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time. |

Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of

Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

(c) For the purposes of this Section:

(i) "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
on the date immediately preceding each date

 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
beginning with the Interest Period in which this
Agreement is signed.

(ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,

1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund:

(A) the Bank’s investments; and

(B) loans which may be made by the Bank after
July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates
determined otherwise than as provided in
paragraph (a) of this Section.

(1ii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.

(d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

_ “({a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each
Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor
of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
such Quarter." | | |

"(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
calendar year." | |
- 4-

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.

- Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

Section 3.03. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, by March 31, 1998, establish to
the Bank's satisfaction, that funds required for the financing of
the Project and additional to the funds provided under the Loan as
well as through the Borrower's internal cash generation, in an
aggregate amount of $170,000,006 equivalent, are available to the
Borrower from other sources. . |

Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:

(a) prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6)
months after the Closing Date, or such later date as may be agreed
for this purpose between the Bank and the Borrower, a plan, of such.
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, for
the future operation of the Project; © |

(b) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on suid plan; and | |
(c) thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into
account the Bank’s comments thereon.

ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower

Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, engineering and environmental practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers .

| Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and
Maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and environmental practices.

Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.

ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants

Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting —
practices its operations and financial condition. |

(b) The Borrower shall:

(i) have its records, accounts and financial
Statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank;
(ii)

(111)

Section 5.02

(b)

(i)

(ii)

(111)

For the

(i)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year: | |

(A) certified copies of its financial
| Statements for such year as so audited; >
and :

(B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasenably requested; and

furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial

statements as well as the audit thereof as the

Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request. |

(a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:

the Borrower shall maintain a ratio of current
assets to current liabilities of not less than
0.8; _

the Borrower shall not incur any debt if, after
the incurrence of such debt, the ratio of debt
to equity shall be greater than 60 to 40; and

the Borrower shall not incur any debt unless a
reasonable forecist of the revenues) and
expenditures of the Borrower shows that the
estimated net revenues of the Borrower for each
fiscal year during the term of the debt to be
incurred shall be at least 1.2 times the

estimated debt service requirements of the

Borrower in such year on all debt of the
Borrower, including the debt to be incurred.

purpose of this Section:

The term "current assets" means cash, all
assets which could, in the ordinary course of
business, be converted into cash within twelve |
months, including accounts receivable, market -
able securities, inventories and pre-paid
(ii)

(111)

(iv)

(v)

(wil)

(vii)

expenses properly chargeable to operating
expenses within the next fiscal year.

The term "current liabilities" means all
liabilities which will become due and payable
or could under circumstances then existing be
called for payment within twelve months,
including accounts payable, customer advances,
debt service requirements, taxes and payments

in lieu of taxes, and dividends.

The term "debt service requirements" means the

aggregate amount of repayments (including
Sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest

and other charges on, debt.

The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the
Borrower maturing by its terms more than one
year after the date on which it is originally
occurred; a | )

Debt shall be deemed to be incurred:

(A) under a loan contract or agreement or
- other instrument providing for such debt
or for the modification of its terms of
payment, on the date of such contract,
agreement or instrument; and

(B) under a guarantee agreement, on the date
the agreement providing for such guarantee
has been entered into.

The term "equity" means the sum of the total
unimpaired paid-up capital, retained earnings
and reserves of the Borrower not allocated to
cover specific liabilities.

The term "net revenues" means the difference
between: | |

(A) the sum of revenues from all sources
related to operations and net  non-
operating income; and |
(B) the sum of all expenses related to
operations including administration,
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments
in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision ©
for depreciation, other non-cash operating
charges and interest and other charges on
debt. |

(viii) The term "net non-operating income" means the
difference between:

(A). revenues from all sources other than those
related to operations; and |

(B) expenses including taxes and payments in
lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
of revenues in (A) above. _ | |

(ix) The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast
ss prepared by the Borrower not earlier than
twelve months prior to the incurrence of the
debt in question, which both the Bank and the
Borrower accept as reasonable and as to which
the Bank has notified the Borrower of its
acceptability, provided that no event has
occurred since such notification which has, or
may reasonably be expected in the future to
have, a material adverse effect on the
financial condition or future operating results

of the Rorrower.

(x) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
- ghall be necessary to value, in terms of Baht,
debt payable in another currency, such

valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which
such other currency is, at the time of such
valuation, obtainable by the Borrower for the
‘purposes of servicing such debt, or in the
absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
exchange acceptable to the Bank. |

Section 5.03. Section 5.04 (a) (i) and (iii) of Loan
No. 2548 TH (Bangchak Oil Refinery Restructuring Project) between
the Bank and the Bangchak Petroleum Company Limited are hereby

 
- 9 «

amended to read as set out in Section 5.02 (a) (i) and (iii)
respectively, of this Agreement, and Section 5.04 (a) (iv) of
aforementioned Loan No. 2548-TH is hereby deleted. |

ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank

Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that
the Borrower's Articles of Association shall have been suspended,
terminated, repealed or amended, so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of the Borrower to carry out its objectives
under the Loan Agreement or its financial or operating condition.

Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified; namely that
the event specified in Section 6.01 shall occur.

ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 8.01. The President of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11. 03 of
the General Conditions.

Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: |

For the Bank:

International Bank for
. Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America
- 10 -

Cable address: | . Telex:
INTBAFRAD | | | 197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C. 248423 (RCA),

64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)

For the Borrower:

The Bangchak Petroleum Public Company Limited
38 Srinakarin Road

Prawet

Bangkok 102650

Kingdom of Thailand

Fax No.: | Telex:
662-399-1051 | 87440 BCPTH
: IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,

United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

of Woes peta Xe

—

HLing regional vice President

East Asia and Pacific

THE BANGCHAK PETROLEUM PUBLIC COMPANY
LIMITED

(af Mansoper Nuke

Authorized Representative
- 11 -

SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of

expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

Amount of the

Loan Allocated % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category | Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) Turn-key contracts | 100% of foreign expen-
under: ditures, and 65% of

local expenditures

(a) Part A.1 of the :
Project 48,000,000

(ob) Part A.2 of the
- Project | 15,000,000

(c) Part B.2 of the

Project | 10,000,000.

(2) Goods and related 2,000,000 100% of foreign expen-
installation under | | . | ditures, 100% of
Parts A.3, B.3 and | . local expenditures
C of the Project (ex-factory cost) and

65% of local expendi-
tures for other items
procured locally

(3) Consultants’ services, 4,000,000 100%

licensor’s fees, and
training under Parts
A.1, A.2 and B.1 of
the Project

(4) Unallocated | 121,000,000

TOTAL | 90,000,000
- 12 -

2. For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
that of the Guarantor;

(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Guarantor; and

(c) the term "turn-key contracts" means contracts under which
a general contractor assumes total responsibility for detailed
engineering, procurement and installation of equipment, associated
works and commissioning of the relevant facilities.

3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$3,000,000 may be made in respect of Categories 2 and 3 on account
of payments made for expenditures before that date but after April
1, 1995.
- 13 -

SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to facilitate the reduction of
air pollution attributable to petroleum fuels in Thailand by

assisting the Borrower in:

(a) meeting reformulated gasoline and diesel oil specifica-.
tions established by the Guarantor;

(b) improving its refinery operations through the installation
of appropriate facilities and equipment to reduce refinery emissions
and improve safety; and |

(c) contributing to the development of the Guarantor’s long-
term strategy to abate the concentration of selected pollutants.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such

modifications thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objective:

Part A: Meeting Reformulated Fuel Specifications

Establishing capacity of the Borrower at its refinery at
Bangchak to meet fuel specifications reformulated by the Guarantor
through: :
1. the acquisition and installation of a deep gas oil hydrotreater
of 30,000 bpsd capacity to enable the production of 0.05 weight
percent sulfur diesel oil; and

2. the acquisition and installation of:

(a) a fluid catalytic cracker of 16,000 barrels stream per day
(bpsd) capacity;

(b) modifications to the naphtha reformer, to produce high
octane, low aromatic and low benzene content gasoline; and |

(c) utility facilities including a co-generation power plant.

3. the acquisition of catalysts and chemicals.
- 14 -

Part B: Environmental Improvement and Safety Enhancements at the
Petroleum Refinery

1. The identification of process and equipment modifications to
the Borrower’s refinery at Bangchak which may be needed to:

(a) reduce gaseous, liquid and solid discharges which may be
harmful to the environment; and

(b) enhance refinery operating safety.

2. The acquisition and installation of equipment and other
facilities identified pursuant to Part B.1 of the Project. |

3. The acquisition of catalysts and chemicals.
Part C: Environmentai Monitoring Equipment

The acquisition of ambient air quality monitoring mobile units.

a a ee ee ee

The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.

 
- 15 -

SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule

Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due | fexpressed_ in dollars) *

On each February 1 and August 1

beginning February 1, 2001

through February 1, 2012 3,750,000
and
on August 1, 2012 _ | 3,750,000
* The figures in this colum represent dollar equivalents

determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4. 03.
time

- 16 -

Premiums on Prepayment

Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable

of prepayment below:

Time of Prepayment

Not more than three years

More

More

before maturity

than three years but
not more than six years

before maturity

than six years but

not more than eleven years
before maturity

More

More

than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity

than fifteen years before
maturity

Premium

The interest rate (expressed as
a percentage per annum) applic-
able to the Loan on the day of
prepayment multiplied by:

0.18
0

~ 17 -

SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A: International Competitive Bidding

1. Except as provided in Part D hereof, turn-key contracts under
Parts A and B.2 of the Project, as defined in paragraph 2 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, shall be awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines) and in accordance
with the following additional procedures:

(a) When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to and in
accordance'with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines,
by the minimum amount of time required to complete the evaluation,
obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract.
The bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the
bidding documents or the request for extension shall provide for
appropriate adjustment of the bid price to reflect changes in the
cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. Such
an increase in the 634 price shall not be taken into account in the
bid evaluation. lith cespect to each contract made subject to the
Bank’s prior rev .ew .n accordance with the provisions of Part D.2
(a) of this Sect on, she Bank’s prior approval will be required for:

| (i) | a | £irst extension of the bid validity period if
tue period of extension exceeds sixty (60) days
ad

(ii) any subsequent extension of the bid validity
period. 7

(b) In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part.
A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank
shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project.
Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the
Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
~ 18 -

2. Bidders for turn-key contracts estimated to cost the equivalent
of five million dollars ($5,000,000) or more per contract shall be
pre-qualified as provided under paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.

Part B: Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

 

In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Thailand may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C: Other Procurement Procedures

1. Limited International Bidding. Except as provided in
paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Part C, contracts for goods and
installation services required for Parts B and C of the Project
estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of sixteen million dollars ($16,000,000), may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of limited international
bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids
obtained from at least three (3) qualified suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, and in accordance with the procedures set forth in
Sections I and II of the Guidelines excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9,
2.55 and 2.56 thereof).

2. Direct Contracting. Proprietary items may be procured under
contracts negotiated with suppliers of such proprietary items, up
to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $4,500,000,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

3.  Imternational Shopping. Goods estimated to cost the equivalent
of $100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $3,000,000, may be procured under contracts
on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank. |

Part _D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1. Review of prequalification:

With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in
Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

 
- 19 -

2. Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

(a) With respect to each turnkey contract and to each
contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or.
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines shall apply.

(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

3. The figure of fifteen percent (15%) is hereby specified for
purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section. II Employment of Consultants

1. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,

the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines) . For complex,
time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants

under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants’
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have
been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other
standard forms agreed with the Bank.

2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts,
shall not apply to: . |

(a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of one hundred thousand
dollars ($100, 900) each; or
-~ 20 -

-(b) contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to
cost less than the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000)
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply
to: |

(i) the terms of reference for such contracts;
(ii) single-source selection of consulting firms;

(iii) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Bank;

(iv) amendments to contracts for the employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above; or

(v) amendments to contracts for the employment of
individual consultants raising the contract value to
$50,000 equivalent or above. a :

 
INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

CERTIFICATE.

[ hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
— the original in the archives of the International Bank

_ for Reconstruction and Development.

SS. CZ,

FOR SECRETARY _

 
