 

 

LOAN NUMBER 3855 UR _

Loan Agreement.

(Health Sector Development Project)
between
REPUBLICA GRIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT |

Dated sprse L8 4995

 

 
LOAN NUMBER 3855 UR
LOAN AGREEMENT

| AG Ox |
AGREEMENT, dated hy € Lx , 1995, between REPUBLICA
ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY (the Borrower) and IN TERN ATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested th the Bank to assist
_ in the financing of the Project;

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
_ Agreement;

‘NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
-ARTICLEI
General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee ~
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

(a) The iast sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

— (b) In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) j is relettered as subparagraph O and a
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:

"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of
Article III, Section 3 of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings: | |

(a) "BROU" means the Bank of the Oriental Republic of Uruguay (Banco de de
la Republica Oriental del U ruguay), a state-owned bank of the Borrower;
-2-

6) "Eligible Departments" means the departments (Departamentos) within the
Borrower’s territory in which Part A.3 of the Project would be carried out and which
meet the criteria set forth in the Implementation Manual;

(c) "Eligible Entity" means either: (i) a non-profit coliective medical
assistance entity owned by private individuals and/or entities in Uruguay (LAMC-
territory (Gobierno Departam mental); (ili) a . state-owned hospital incorporated as a trust
fund in Uruguay; (iv) a profit-making medical entity or insurance entity owned by private
individuals and/or entities in Uruguay; or (v) any other entity within the Borrower’s
territory, which has met the eligibility criteria set forth in the Implementation Manual,

(d) "Eligible Professional" means a professional employed by any entity
which provides health services within the Borrower’s territory who meets the criteria set
forth in the Implementation Manual i in order to be benefitted by a scholarship under Part
B.4 of the Project;

(e) "Eligible Public Health Program" means a program which has met the
eligibility criteria set forth in the Implementation Manual;

(f) “Implementation Manual" means the Borrower’s manual referred to in
Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement which sets forth, inter alia: .:) the criteria to be met
by the Eligible Departments and Eligible Entities (under Part A.3 of the Project) and the
Eligible Public Health Programs (under Part C.1(e) of the Project); (ii) the criteria to be
met by the Eligible Professionals (under Part B.4 of the Project) and the minimum terms
and conditions, satisfactory to the Bank, of the scholarships to be granted to each Eligible
Professionals; (iii) the expected outcomes of the Project, the guidelines and the
performance and monitoring indicators to be followed by the Borrower, through MSP, in
the carrying out of the Project; (iv) the minimum terms and conditions, satisfactory to the
Bank, to be included in each MSP Agreement and Technical Assistance Agreement; and
(v) the scope and detail of the strategy referred to in Section 3.07(c) of this Agreement;

(g) "Implementation Program" means the timetable of certain activities to be
carried out under the Project set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement,

(h) "Legal Framework" means the Borrower’s legal framework for the health
sector, including, inter alia: (i) Law No. 9.202 dated January 12, 1934; (11) Law No.
15.903 dated November 10, 1987; (iii) Decree Law No. 15.181 dated August 21, 1981;
and (iv) the regulations to such laws, as such laws and regulations have been amended to
the date of this Agreement;

 
_3-

(i) "MEF" means the Ministry of Economy and Finance (Ministerio de
Economia y Finanzas) of the Borrower;

 

 

Gj). "MSP" means the Ministry of Public Health (Ministerio de Salud Publica)
of the Borrower; |

 

(k) "MSP Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower, through MSP and an Eligible Entity for purposes of establishing the terms and
conditions of the provision of health services to be provided by such Eligible Entity
within an Eligible Department under Part A.3 (d) of the Project, referred to in paragraph
eX) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

(1) "Peso Uruguayo" means the currency of the Borrower
(m) "PCU" means the Project coordinztion unit established pursuant to

Executive Decree No. 559/993 dated December 8, 1993, duly published in the Official
Gazette (Diario Oficial No. 25956), referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement;

 

(n) "Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 3.01 (€) of this
Agreement;
(o) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance

granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the Agreement Letter dated March 24, |
1993, duly countersigned by the Borrower’s representative on April 1, 1993, as amended
by the Amendment Letter dated December 7, 1993, duly countersigned by the Borrower’s.
representative | on December 22, 1993;

(p) | "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement, and

(q) "Technical Assistance Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower, through MSP, and an Eligible Entity within an Eligible
Department for purposes of establishing the terms and conditions of the technical
assistance to be provided by the Borrower to such Eligible Entity under Part A.4 of the
Project, referred to in paragraph 3 (c) (iii) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
_4-

ARTICLE II
The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
- conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that shall
have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of fifteen million six hundred thousand
Dollars ($15,600,900), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with
each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of suck withdrawal.

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

(b) The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in
Dollars a special deposit account in the Borrower’s Central Bank on terms and conditions —
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall.
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. |

(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to
_ repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding
as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the
authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such later date as the
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

| Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of ™) per annum on the principal amount of
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time. .

Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in
- Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal
amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable
- during such Interest Period. | |

 
-5-

(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined 1 in respect of such

Semester.

(c) For the purposes of this Section:

(i)

(ii)

(iii)

"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this
Agreement is signed.

"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per
annum, of the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings or portions

_ thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank’s

investments; and (B) loans which may be made by the Bank after

~ July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise than as
_ provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

"Semester" means the first six months or the second six x months
of a calendar year.

(d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months’ notice
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shail be amended to read

as follows:

"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of

the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On
each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the |
Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding

during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable —
during such Interest Period. "

"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the

Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualtied Borrowings
determined in respect of such Quarter." | | |
-6-

"(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing on
January 1, Aprii 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April
13 and October 15 in each year.

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

Section 2.08. The Minister of MSP (or such other person or persons as such ©
Minister shall appoint in writing) is designated as representative of the Borrower for
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.

ARTICLE Ml
Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end: (i) through MSP,
shall carry out Parts A.1, A.2, A.4, A.5, B.3, B.4 and C of the Project; and (ii) through
MSP, shall carry out Parts A.3, B.1 and B.2 of the Project in accordance with MEF’s
economic and financial policies, with due diligence and efficiency in accordance with the
Implementation Manual, and in conformity with appropriate health, technical,
environmental, administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other r: sources required for the Project.

— (b) Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower |
shall not amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the Implementation Manual or any
provision thereof.

(c) ‘Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, and —
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out
certain Parts of the Project substantially in accordance with the implementation Program

set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(d)

Borrower shall:

(e)

-7-

Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the

(i)

(ii)

(iii)

make available each year, until the completion of the Project,
promptly as needed in Pesos Uruguayos, as counterpart funds for
the Project, the following amounts:

Counterpart Funds for the
Year =—_—sC~@PProject (in Dollars equivalent —
as of the first day of each year
of Project implementation)

1995. $1,600,000

1996 | $2,500,000
1997 $3,500,000
1998 : $2,400,000
1999 — $2,400,000;

not later than thirty days prior to the date in which the
Borrower’s budget related to the health sector is presented to the
Borrower’s Congress each year (with the exception of 1995),
furnish to the Bank, for its review, a copy of such section of the
budget in order to determine if the amount of counterpart funds
for the year im question referred to in (i) herein have been
included; and

within thirty days after the date in which the Borrower’s budget
related to the health sector is approved each year, furnish to the

‘Bank a copy of such approved budget, including a copy of the

approved budget for 1995.

Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the
Borrower shall: (i) open, and thereafter operate and maintain in BROU, an account (the
Project Account) under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for purposes of
depositing in such account the Borrower’s counterpart funds for the implementation of the —
Project, and (ii) maintain in the Project Account, at all times during Project
implementation, a positive balance of not less than $100,000 equivalent.

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods |
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
_ of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
-8-

Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article [IX of the General
Conditions, the Borrower shall:

(a) prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, for the future operation of the Project. |

(b) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the
‘Borrower on said plan; and |

(c) thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Bank’s comments thereon.

Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower, through MSP, shall maintain and operate during
_ Project implementation a unit (the PCT) with functions and responsibilities satisfactory
to the Bank which shall include, inter alia, the responsibility of assisting MSP in: (1) the
coordination of the activities to be carried out under the Project; (11) the monitoring and
evaluation of the progress in Project implementation; (111) the preparation of the quarterly
reports referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement; and (iv) the activities related to the
disbursement of Loan proceeds, procurement, and maintenance of records and separate
accounts referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement.

(b) | The Borrower, through MSP, shall ensure that the PCU is at all times —
headed by a qualified professional and assisted by staff in adequate numbers and with
qualifications satisfactory to the Bank.

Section 3.05. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.07 of the
General Conditions, the Borrower, through MSP, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
quarterly reports of such scope and in such detail as the Bank may reasonably request
— with respect to the progress in the implementation of the Project during the calendar
quarter in question, with the exception of the last quarterly report for each calendar year
which shall also include the information listed in (c) below.

(b) | The reports referred to in (a) above shall be furnished by the Borrower,
through MSP, to the Bank not later than thirty days after the termination of the quarter
for the calendar year in question. |

(c) The last quarterly report of each calendar year shall also provide |
information with respect to the progress in Project implementation for the entire calendar —
year in question.

 
-9-

Section 3.06. The Borrower, through MSP, shall not later than December 1 of
each year during Project implementation, starting in 1995, prepare and furnish to the Bank
an operating plan, satisfactory to the Bank, with respect to the activities to be carried out
under the Project during the calendar year following the date of presentation of such plan.

Section 3.07. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this
Agreement, the Borrower, through MSP, shail not later than December 31, 1997 complete
an evaluation of the experiences resulting from the implementation of the pilot program
referred to in Part A.3 of the Project.

(b) | The Borrower, through MSP, shall sixty days prior to the date of the mid-
term review referred to in Section 3.08 of this Agreement, prepare and furnish to the
Bank, for its review and comments during such mid-term review, a draft health sector
strategy to be applied by the Borrower during the next five years after the Project has —
been completed. Such draft strategy shall take into account, inter alia, the experiences
resulting from the execution of Part A.3 of the Project. |

(c) Based on the discussions, and comments, if any, provided by the Bank |
to the Borrower during the mid-term review with respect to the document referred to in
(b) above, the Borrower, through MSP, shall not later than March 31, 1999 prepare and
furnish to the Bank a final health sector strategy, of such scope and in such detail as
described in the Implementation Manual.

Section 3.08. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the
General Conditions, the Borrower, through MSP, shall review jointly with the Bank by
not later than March 31 of each year, starting in 1995, the progress made by the
Borrower, through MSP, in: (i) carrying out the Project; and (ii) achieving the objectives
of the Project. Such review shali, inter alia, focus on analyzing the quarterly reports
referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement. As nart of each such review the Bank may
require that the Borrower prepare an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to make
adjustments in Project implementation. If so, the Borrower shall furnish such action plan
to the Bank not later than thirty days after the conclusion of the review in question and —
shall thereafter carry out, or cause to be carried out, such action plan in accordance with —
its terms. |

(b) The Borrower, through MSP, shall participate in a Project implementation
mid-term review to be held with the Bank as part of the annual review to be held not later
than March 31, 1998. During such mid-term review, attention shall particularly be
focussed on reviewing the draft health sector strategy referred to in paragraph (b) of
Section 3. 07 of this Agreement. |
-10-

ARTICLE IV

Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through MSP, shail maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project

or any part thereof.

(b) The Borrower, through MSP, shall:

(i)

have the records and accounts s referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section including those for the Special Account and Project
Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with

appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by

(ii)

iii)

(c) For all

independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from

time to time reasonably request.

expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan

Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

(i)

(i)

Gi

maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with

paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures,

retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the —
Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account was made, _
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts a and other
documents) evidencing such expenditures;

enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and

 
-1ll-

(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals.

ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank

Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General Condiiions, the following
additional events are specified: |

(a) thai the Legal Framework or any provision thereof has been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced, in such a manner so as to affect
substantially, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Borrower to carry out Part A.3
of the Project; and |

(b) that any MSP Agreement or Technical Assistance Agreement or any
provision thereof shail have been amended, assigned, suspended, terminated, abrogated,
waived or not enforced, in such a manner so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the
ability of the Borrower to carry out Part A.3 of the Project.

Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the
following additional events are specified:

(a) any of the events referred to” in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur; and

(b) that any of the events referred to in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 45 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
-12-

ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the

General Conditions:

(a) that the head of the PCU have been appointed and that such unit have
been staffed, as provided by Section 3.04 of this Agreement;

| (b) that the Implementation Manual have been duly approved by the |
Borrower, through MSP; and

| (c) that the Project Account has been opened at BROU with an amount of not
less than $175,000 equivalent, and that the remaining balance of counterpart funds for the

first year of Project implementation are available at BROU i in 4 manner and under terms
satisfactory to the Bank.

| Section 6.02. The date at 495 is nereny specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Con itions.
ARTICLE Vil
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
‘Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the Minister
of MEF is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03

of the General Conditions.

Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions: — |

For the Borrower:

Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas —
Colonia 1089
Montevideo, Uruguay

 
-13-
Cable address: a Telex:

MINECON > | 269 MINECON UY
Montevideo, Uruguay

For the Bank:

International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development

1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address: | Telex:

INTBAFRAD 248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C. 82987 (FTCC)

64145 (WUD) or
197688 (TRT)
-14-

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

_ REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY

By
Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Ed: therto Deguna

By

‘a egional Vice President
Latin erica and the Caribbean

 
-15-

SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
l. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the

percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

Amount of the

Loan Allocated : % of
| | | (Expressed in Expenditures
Category | Dollar Equivalent) to_be Financed
(1) Goods:
(a) Hardware | | 8,600,000 100% of foreign
_ Equipment and | expenditures
Software
Application | |
(b) Vehicles 200,000 100% of foreign
: | | expenditures
(2) Consultants’ | 4,800,000 50%
Services |
and Training
(3) Refundingof | 900,000 Amounts due
Project — | | - pursuant to
Preparation Section 2.02
A\dvance | | (c) of this
oe Agreement
(4) Unallocated | 1,100,000

TOTAL | 15,600,000
-16-

2. For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.

3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,200,000,
may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (2) on account of payments made for .
expenditures before that date but after July 31, 1994; (b) payments made for expenditures
under Part A.3 of the Project unless and without limitation to the provisions of Section
3.01 of this Agreement, the activities to be carried under Part B.1 of the Project have
been completed in a manner and under terms satisfactory to the Bank; and (c) payments
made for expenditures under Part A.4 of the Project with respect to an Eligible Entity
- within the Eligible Department in question, unless the Borrower, through MSP, has: (i)
met the condition referred to in paragraph (b) herein; (ii) entered into an MSP Agreement,
satisfactory to the Bank, with such Eligible Entity; and (ii) entered into a Technical
Assistance Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with such Eligible Entity.

4. The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure for such expenditures under contracts for: (a) hardware
equipment and software application to be awarded under Part C.2 of Section I of Schedule
4 to this Agreement; (b) the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than
$100,000 equivalent; and (c) the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice
to the Borrower. |

 
-17-.

SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project

The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the efficiency and the quality of
_ the health services provided by MSP to the poor and uninsured through the contracting
of MSP’s provision of health services with Eligible Entities; and (b) to foster the
institutional development of the public health sector in the Borrower’s territory through:
(i) the improvement of the regulatory framework and the information base for decision-
_ making; (ii) the selective development of human resources; and (iii) the rationalization of
epidemiological health sector priorities. |

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:

Part A: Contracting of MSP’s provision of health services
1. Carry out a review of the national and international experiences with respect to

the decentralization and contracting of the provision of health services.

(2. Establish and analyze the different alternatives to contract the provision of health
services of MSP with Eligible Entities, including, inter alia, the design of: (a) an
operational framework for each alternative; and (b) the mechanism for the payment of the
health services to be provided to the beneficiaries by the Eligible Entities as a result of
the contracting of MSP’s provision of health services. |

3. Carry out a pilot program consisting, inter alia, of: (a) selecting the Eligible
Departments; (b) selecting the Eligible Entities; (c) drafting the legal documents for each
alternative referred to in Part A.2 above; (d) contracting the provision of health services
of MSP with Eligible Entities within Eligible Departments in the Borrower’s territory as
a result of the activity to be carried out under Part A.2 above; and (e) implementing the
provision of health services to be provided by the Eligible Entities.

4. Strengthen the management of Eligible Entities (including the acquisition and
utilization of equipment and provision of training required therefor) which would carry —
out the provision of health services under the pilot program referred to in Part A.3 above.

5. Design and implement a system t to evaluate the pilot program referred to in Part
A.3 above.

 
- 18 -

Part B: Institutional Development

1. Carry out a review of the public health regulatory framework, and improve, if
needed, such regulatory framework in order to implement: (i) the contracting of MSP’s
provision of health services with Eligible Entities under the pilot program referred to in
Part A.3 above; and (ii) the institutional reorganization of the public health sector to be
carried out under Part B.2 (b) below.

2. (a) Design the institutional reorganization of the public health sector in order
to strengthen MSP’s role to regulate and finance the provision of health services; and (b)
_ implement the institutional reorganization referred to in (a) herein. |

3. (a) Design of a public health’s sector management information system; and
(b) implement the system referred to in (a) herein within the Eligible Departments.

4. Strengthen the technical and management capacity of health sector professionals
within the Borrower’s territory through the provision of scholarships to Eligible
Professionals.

Part C: Health Service

l. Carry out a priority health program consisting, inter alia, of: (a) a review of the ©
international experiences in the definition of disease priorities and the establishment of
cost-effective public health programs; (b) an analysis of the experiences mentioned in (a)
herein which are applicable to Uruguay; (c) a review of the current standards for the
provision of health services, and improve, if needed, such standards; (d) the application
of global burden of disease and cost-effective methodologies to Eligible Entities within
Eligible Departments, and the dissemination of the application of such methodologies to
other departments (Departamentos) within the Borrower’s territory; (e) the carrying out
_ of Eligible Public Health Programs resulting from the review referred to in (a) herein,

including, if required, the strengthening of such programs; and (f) the evaluation of the
- impact of rationalizing the disease priorities.
-19-

2. Carry out a program to evaluate the quality of health services consisting, inter
alia, of: (a) the design of quality evaluation and health provider accreditation systems to
be applied to Eligible Entities within Eligible Departments; (b) the application of the
systems referred to in (a) herein to Eligible Entities within Eligible Departments; (c) the
design of a nationwide quality evaluation and provider accreditation system, and apply
such system within the Borrower’s territory (as a result of the application of the systems
referred to in (a) herein); and (d) evaluate the impact of the application of the systems
referred to in (a) and (c) herein.

The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.

 
- 20 -

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

Date Payment Due Payment of Principal
| | (expressed in Dollars)*

On each April 15 and October 15

beginning October 15, 2000 | |
through April 15, 2010 | 780,000

* The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
-2]-

Premiums on Prepayment

Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:

Time of Prepayment | Premium

The interest rate (expressed as a

_ percentage per annum) applicable to
the Loan on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:

Not more than three years ~ | 0.20
before maturity |

More than three years but. 0.40
not more than six years © | | |
before maturity

More than six years but | 0.73
not more than 11 years |
before maturity

More than 11 years but not | | 0.87
more than 13 years | |
before maturity —

More than 13 years before __ 1.00
maturity |

 
22 -

SCHEDULE 4 _
Procurement and Consultants’ Services |

Section I. Procurement of Goods

Part A: International Competitive Bidding
1 Except as provided in Part C hereof, the goods referred to in Part A.3 of this

Section, shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the
Guidelines), and in accordance with the following additional procedures:

(a) When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period,
such period may be extended once, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract. The bid
validity period may be extended a second time only if the bidding documents or the
request for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid price to reflect
changes in the cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. Such an
increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the bid valuation. With respect
to each contract made subject to the Bank’s prior review in accordance with the
provisions of Part D.1 (a) of this Section, the Bank’s prior approval will be required for:
(i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the period of extension exceeds sixty (60)
days; and (ii) any subsequent extension of the bid validity period.

(b) In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A and Part C.1
of this Schedule, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued
by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be
necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents _
have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank. :

2. ‘The bidding under Part A.1 above with respect to the acquisition of hardware
equipment and software application necessary for the implementation of the system
referred to in Part B.3 of the Project may be carried out through a two-step procedure
satisfactory to the Bank.
- 23 -

3. To the extent practicable, contracts for vehicles, hardware equipment and software
application shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more.

Part B: Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Uruguay may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C: Other Procurement Procedures

1. Vehicles estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $100,000 per contract, up
to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $200,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded through limited international bidding procedures on the basis of
evaluation and comparison of bids obtained from a list of potential suppliers broad enough |
- to assure competitive prices (which list is to include al! suppliers when there is only
limited number) and in accordance with the procedures set forth in Sections I and Il of
the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).

For contracts (under this Part C.1) referred to in Part D.1 (a) below, the Borrower
shall prior to inviting bids, furnish to the Bank for its approval, the list mentioned herein.

2. Hardware equipment and software application estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $1,300,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from a list of at least three suppliers (local or
foreign from at least three different countries) eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

 
~24-

Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:

(a) With respect to each contract to be awarded under Parts A.1 and C.1 of
this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
_ Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2
(d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first ‘Payment out of the
Special Account i in respect of such contract.

(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

| (c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to
contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of statements of
| expenditure. |

2. The figure of 15% is hereby specified for puryoses of paragraph 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

l. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the |
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultants
Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants’ services
issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the
Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.

 
- 25 -

2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of
the Consultants Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall
not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less _
than $100,000 equivalent each, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent
of $2,000,000; or (b) contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent each, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
$1,000,000. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms
of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c)
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000
- equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.

Section II. Special Provisions
A. In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this
Schedule or the Guidelines, the following principles and rules of procurement shall
expressly govern all procurement of goods referred to in Parts A.1 and C.1 of Section I
of this Schedule.

1. Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting bids, be required to enter
into a joint venture agreement with local bidders.

2. The lowest evaluated bid shall be selected for contract award.

3. Foreign bidders shall not be required to be registered with local authorities as a
prerequisite for bidding. .

4, There will not be prescribed minimum numbers of bids to be submitted in order
for a contract to be subsequently awarded. :

5. Foreign bidders shall not be required to legalize their bidding documents with
Uruguayan authorities as a prerequisite of bidding.

6. Foreign bidders shall not be required to hire local personnel, except for unskilled
personnel. | |
B. In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this

Schedule or the Consultants Guidelines, the following principles and rules of procurement

 
26 -

of this Schedule. —

shall expressly govern all procurement of consultants’ services referred to in Section II
1. Foreign consultants shall not, as a condition for participating in the selection
process, be required to enter into a joint venture agreement with local consultants.

2. Foreign consultants shall be selected from those included in a short list on the
basis of evaluation criteria and terms of reference, both satisfactory to the Bank.

3. The prices of contracts over one year duration may be adjusted.
27.

SCHEDULE 5

Implementation Program

Expected Starting Date of Expected Completion Date of

Certain Parts of the _ Certain Parts

Project - not later than of the Project - not
Parts of the Project ect later than

7 months after the
Effective Date
A.3 (a) 18 months after the
Eifective Date
A.3 (b) 22 months after the

 

 
      

Effective Date

A.3 (c) 18 months after the |
Effective Date
A. 3 (a) 22 months after the
Effective Date
A.3 (e) 25 months after the Effective
Date _
B. 2 (a) 16 months after the Effective t+——
Date
B. 2 (b) 25 months after the Effective mp
Date
B.3 (a) l month after the Effective 12 months after the Effective |
_Date _ | | Date |
B.3 (b) 25 months after the Effective p |
Date
| . 48 months after the Effective |
Date
| OC. | | 24 months after the Effective
| : | | _Date
| — C2 (c) | |

     

 

       

51 months after the Effective |]
Date

 
. 28 -

SCHEDULE 6
_ Special Account
1. For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule | to this Agreement;

(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

| (c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $800,000
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$400,000 until an aggregate amount of withdrawals (from the Loan Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered by the Bank pursuant to Section
_ 5.02 of the General Conditions) shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $2,500,000.

2. Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

3. After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:

| (a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish |
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the
ageregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit —
in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
- 29 -

(b) (1) For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall
| furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.

(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the

Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for

_ eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence. .

4. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.

5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

@) if, at any time, the Bank shali have determined that all further withdrawals |
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement,

(ob) if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the
records and accounts s for the Special Account, .

 
- 30 -

(c) if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or

(d) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after
and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.

6. (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such
_ additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or,
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may
be.

(b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank
such outstanding amount.

(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

(d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
| General Conditions.
: I NTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR REC ONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPM ENT

CERTIFICATE
CERTIFICATE

I hereby certif ¥ that the foregoing is a (rue copy of
the Original in the archives of the | nternational Bank

for Reconstruction and Development.

CW Ky

 

FOR SECRETARY

 
