   

  
 

| OFFICIAM
DOCUMENTS |

   

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 27/2. ME

Loan Agreement
~ Cssential Social Services Program)
between

_ INT ERNATIONAL BANK FOR REC ONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

and

NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.

Dated Yo 2 % , 1995

 

 

 
LOAN NUMBER 29/2 ME
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT, dated eee a % , 1995, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NACIONAL
FIN ANCIERA, S.N.C. (the Borrower).

WHEREAS: (A) the Guarantor and the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

(B) — by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith
between the Guarantor and tne Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the
obligations of the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations
as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement;

(C) the Borrower intends to contract from the Inter-American Development
Bank (IDB) a loan (the IDB Loan) in an amount equivalent to five hundred million
Dollars ($500,000,000) to assist in financing Parts A.1, A.3, C.2 and D of the Project on
the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the IDB Loan Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and IDB; and

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement, oe

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee

Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:

 
-2-

(a) "CAPFCE" means the Guarantor’s Administrative Committee for the

Federal Schcol Construction Program (Comite Administrador del Peegr a Federal de

Construccion de Escuelas);

 

(b) "CONAFE" means the Guarantor’s National Council for Educational
Development (Consejo Nacional de Fomento Educativo);

 

(c) "CONALITEG" mieans the Guarantor’s National Free Textbooks
Commission (Comision Nacional de los Libros de Texto Gratuitos);

 

(d) "COTEIP" means SHCP’s (as hereinafter defined) Budgetary Integration
Technical Committee (Comité Técnico de Integracién Presupuestal) chaired by a
representative from SHCP’s General Directorate for Budgetary Policy (Direccién General
de Politica Presupuestal) and composed of representatives from other SHCP units, from
the Borrower and, for purposes of this Project, from the entities referred to in Section
3.01 (a)-(g) of the Guarantee Agreement; |

 

(e) “Implementation Letter" means the letter of even date herewith from the
Guarantor to the Bank, containing, inier alia, the schedule and targets referred to in
Section 3.01 of the Guarantee Agreement; |

| (f) "PEE" means the Guarantor’s Special Employment Program (Programa

Especial de Empleo), announced in March 1995, designed to generate temporary
employment in public works projects at compensation levels equal to no more than 80%
of the applicable regional legal minimum wage;

(2)  "PROBECAT" means STPS’ (as hereinafter defined) Labor Retraining

Program (Programa de Becas de Capacitacién para Trabajadores);
(h) "SEDESOL" means the Guarantor’ s Social Development Secretariat

(Secretaria de Desarrollo Social);

(i) "SEP" means the Guarantor’ s Public Education Secretariat (Secretar ia de
Educacién Publica);

Q) “SHCP" means the Guarantor’s Finance and Public Credit Secretariat |
(Secretaria de Hacienda y Crédito Publico);

 

(k) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of.
this Agreement;

 
3.

(1) "SSA" means the Guarantor’s Health Secretariat (Secretaria de Salud);

(m) "State" means any one of the states (Estados) that constitute the United
Mexican States; and

 

(n) "STPS" means the Guarantor’ S Labor and Social Welfare Secretariat
(Secretar a del Trabajo y Prevision Prevision Social).

ARTICLE I
Tke Loan

_ Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to five -
hundred million Dollars ($500;900,000)..

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project described i in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

(b) The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in
Dollars a special deposit account in Banco de México on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such later date as the
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall pfomptly notify the Borrower arid the Guarantor of |
such later date.

- Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Loan not withdrawn irom time to time.

| Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of
| Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

 
-4-

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears on April 15
and October 15 in each year. : .

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE If
Transfer of Loan Proceeds; Other Covenants

Section 3.01. The Borrower shall enter into, and comply with the terms of,
contractual arrangements with the Guarantor, satisfactory to the Bank, providing, inter
alia, for: (a) the transfer to the Guarantor of the proceeds of the Loan; and (b) the
transfer by the Guarantor to the Borrower of such funds as the Borrower shall be required
to pay to the Bank on account of principal, interest and other charges on the Loan. —
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or fail to enforce —
any provision of such contractual arrangements. The Borrower shall exercise its rights
under such contractual arrangements in such a manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.

Section 3.02. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating
respectively to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition) shall be carried out, or caused to be carried out,
by the Guarantor pursuant to Section 3.04 (a) of the Guarantee Agreement. .

Section 3.03. The Borrower shall participate in the quarterly reviews referred to
in Section 3.11 (b) of the Guarantee Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records

and separate accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices,
the resources and expenditures in connection w*<h the execution of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall:

(i) have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this

| _ Section, and the records and accounts for the Special Account for

each fiscal year audited, in accordance with generally accepted

- auditing standards and procedures consistently applied, by
independent and qualified auditors;

(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later
_ than six months after the end of each such year, the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as

the Bank shall have reasonably requested;

(iii) | furnish to the Bank each month certified statements of the
Special Account; and

(iv) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
| records and accounts as well as the audit thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.

(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall provide
to the Guarantor any information that may be required by the Guarantor to comply with
the Guarantor’s obligations under Section 3.05 (c) of the Guaraniee Agreement.

ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the
_ effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the

General Conditions, namely, that the contractual arrangements referted to in Section 3.01
of this Agreement shall have been entered into.

Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that on behalf of each of the Borrower and
the Guarantor, the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement _
have been duly authorized or ratified, and executed and delivered, by the Borrower and

 
-6-

the Guarantor and are legally binding upon the Borrower and the Guarantor in accordance
with the terms of such contractual arrangements. |

Section 5.03. The date Spduhe 2S / 757 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

ARTICLE VI |
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 6.01. The Director Internacional of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.

Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Bank:

International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
- United States of America

| Cable address: Telex:
-INTBAFRAD 248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C. =~. ~—-82987 (FTCC)

64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For the Borrower:

Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
Direccion Internacional

Torre IV, piso 8

Plaza Inn, Insurgentes Sur 1971

01020 México, D.F.
Mexico
Cable address: Telex:
NAFIN | | NAFIME 383-1775765

Mexico City _ a _ Mexico City

 
-8-

IN WITNESS WHERECF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in
México, D.F., United Mexican States, as of the day and year first above written.

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR .
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

[sf
py Plot he Lneh Crh:
| | Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean

NACIONAL FINANCIERA, $.N.C.

$f

oe

   

Authorized Representative

 
-9-

SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the

_ proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

Amount of the
Loan Allocated % of
| | (Expressed in | Expenditures
Category a Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) Civil works oo 26,000,000 — 85% of payments
under Part B.3 _ . made during
of the Project 1995; 50% of
| | payments made
thereafter
(2) Goods
(a) Educational | 98,000,000 85%
materials under | |
Parts A.2 (a)
and B.1 of the
Project (including
printing and
distribution
thereof and paper
- therefor)
(b) Pharmaceuticals 60,000,000 | 85% of payments
| and consumable made during»
~ medical supplies | 1995; 50% of
(including distri- . | _ payments made
bution thereof) | | thereafter
under Part B of the | |

Project

 
Category

—(c) Other (excluding
| goods under
Parts A.1, A.3
and C.2 of the
_ Project)

(d) Food and micro-
| nutrients under
Part D of the
Project (including
distribution —
thereof)

(3) Stadies, audits,
civil works
supervision services
and other technical
assistance (other than
under Parts A.1, A.3
and C.2 of the Project) ©

(4) Remuneration for
| temporary fixed-
term staff under
- Parts B and C.1
of the Project

(5) Training and stipends
under Part C.1 of the
Project

-10-

~ Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in

Dollar Equivalent)
- 14,000,000

3,000,000

10,000,000

25,000,000

166,000,000 |

 YXAof
Expenditures

to be Financed —

85%.

— 85% of payments

made during
1995; 50% of
payments made
thereafter

100%

100% of payments
made during

1995; 75% of
payments made
thereafter

100% of payments
made during
1995; 75% of ©
payments made
thereafter |

 
-ll-

Amount of the
Loan Allocated | —% of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category Dollar Equivalent) to_be Financed
(6) Incremental | | 63,000,000 85% of payments
operating costs | | | | made during
(other than under | 1995; 50% of
Parts A.1, A.3 and | payments made
C.2 of the Project) . a thereafter
(7) Unallocated | | 35,000,000

TOTAL 500,000,000

2. For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a) "incremental operating costs" means operational, maintenance, travel and
_ per diem costs, that would not have been incurred absent the Project (but in no case may
such costs include salaries or other staff remuneration);

(b) "training" means the fees referred to in Section 3.08 (a) (iit) of the
Guarantee Agreement; and |

(c) "remuneration for temporary fixed-term staff under Parts B and C.1 of the
Project" means payments made to SSA, STPS or State temporary employees (who would
not have been hired absent the Project) for their services rendered in assisting in the
provision of health or vocational training services under Parts B or C.1 of the Project.

3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph |! above, no withdrawals shall be

made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000,000, may be
made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after February
19, 1995. .

4. The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower, for expenditures: (a) not subject to contract (such as,

 
_12-

for example, training and stipends under Category (5) and remuneration for temporary
fixed-term staff under Category (4)); (b) under contracts for works estimated to cost less
than $2,000,000 equivalent per contract; (c) under contracts for goods, materials and
equipment estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract; (d) under
contracts with individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per
contract; and (e) under contracts with consulting firms estimated to cost less than
-$100,000 equivalent per contract. | |

 
- 13 -

SCHEDULE 2
- Description of the Project

The objectives of the Project are to: (a) protect essential social services for the
poor in Mexico in the areas of education and health care; (b) strengthen existing social
safety net measures, through support for retraining, short-term employment and nutrition
programs, to cushion the impact on the poor in Mexico of the country’s current economic
situation; and (c) support the establishment of monitoring mechanisms to lay the
foundation for measuring and achieving efficiency gains in the provision of services in
the social sectors in Mexico.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve the above-
mentioned objectives:

Part A: ' Basic Education Services

1. Provision of public education services to the poor in preschool (ages 4 and 5) and
primary (grades 1-6) and lower secondary (grades 7-9) levels through programs
administered by ¢ CONAFE.

2. (a) Provision of free textbooks through CONALITEG to schoolchildren in the
preschool and primary levels, as well as provision through CONALITEG of printed
teaching guides and other complementary publications for use by teachers at such levels;
and (b) carrying out of a study on the cost-effectiveness of CONALITEG’s textbook
_ production and distribution system.

3. Construction through CAPFCE of educational spaces (including classrooms and
support facilities) for public preschools serving the poor, of educational spaces (including
classrooms, workshops and support facilities) for lower secondary public schools served
by SEP’s teaching-by-television program ( telesecundaria) and of educational spaces for
boarding schools serving indigenous students.

Part B: Basic Health Services

1. _ Provision to the poor in Mexico who lack health insurance of priority preventive
health services (such as vaccination of children, control of endemic and communicable
diseases, screening for early detection of chronic diseases, family planning and
reproductive health services, maternal and child health care and health and nutrition
education), together with support for the social marketing of public health programs.
~14-

2. Provision to the poor in Mexico who lack health insurance of basic curative health
care through basic health care (first level health centers ‘and second level hospitals) and
mobile outreach units.

3. Construction, equipping and maintenance of public first and second level health
_ facilities and public health laboratories.

Part C: Training and Emplovm ent

1. _— Provision of vocational classroom, in-plant and on-the-job basic skills training,
as well as tool kits, through PROBECAT to otherwise unemployed or underemployed
workers, together with provision of stipends to such trainees during the course of their |
training. |

2. Carrying out of public works projects urider the PEE.
Pat D:  — Nutrition

Provision of a basic food basket (consisting of corn flour, beans, salt, sugar and
cooking oil), micronutrient supplements, growth monitoring services and nutrition

education to pregnant or lactating women and children under age 5 living in selected
impoverished municipalities. — |

Part E: Monitoring and Evaluation
1. Provision of technical assistance, equipment and supplies to establish a system for
monitoring the outputs generated by social sector expenditures (so as to allow budgeting

decisions for programs in such sectors to be made on the basis of the effectiveness of |
prior expenditures for such programs).

2. Carrying out of physical audits and qualitative assessments of beneficiaries as part
of the monitoring of social sector outputs.

* * *

The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.
-15-

SCHEDULE 3
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A. General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings. —

(a) "Disbursed Amount" means, in respect of each Interest Period, the
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such
Interest Period.

(b) "Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the date of
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, and
after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest Payment date to, but
excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date.

| (c) “Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement. | . | |

(d) "Rate Fixing Date" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of
the Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount
is withdrawn. |

B. Interest
1. The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate

based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from Its
Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.

2. (a) From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed
Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the applicable:

(i) LIBOR Base Rate; plus ©

(ii)  LIBOR Total Spread.
.16-

(b) From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final —
repayment thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the
applicable:

(i) Fixed Base Rate; plus _
(ii) Fixed Total Spread.

3. For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the
following meanings.

(a) "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars
for vaiue the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period,
for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date preceding the first day cf such —
Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per
annum. |

(b)  "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for the Interest Period in which ‘each
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:

{i) one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);

(ii) | minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest
Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered rates, or
other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the
Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by
the Bank to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made
by it that include such Disbursed Amount for such Interest
Period; :

as reasonably determ ined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.

(c) "Fixed Base Rate" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of
the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value on the Rate
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such Disbursed
Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed asa percentage per annum.

(d) "Fixed Total Spread" means, for each Disbursed Amount:

 
-17-

(i) one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);

(ii) | minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing
Date for such Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London
interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month _
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or
portions thereof allocated to ‘fund single currency loans or
portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount;
plus | |

ii) the Bank’s risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for
such Disbursed Amount;

as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.

4, The Bank shall notify the Guarantor and the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate,
LIBOR Total Spread, Fixed Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each
Disbursed Amount, promptly upon the determination thereof.

5. Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the interest
of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest
rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the Bank may modify
the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of the Loan not yet
withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis.
The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the
Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said
modification shall not apply to the Loan.

Cc. Repay ment |

l. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall repay
each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semi-annual installments payable on each April
15 and October 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) Interest
Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the last.
_ such installment to be payable on the twenty-fourth (24th) Interest Payment Date
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall be
one-eighteenth (1/18) of such Disbursed Amount.

2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment

of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said
- 18 -

_ paragraph 1, be payable after October 15, 2010, the Borrower shall also pay on said date
the aggregate amount of all such installments.

3 After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed
Amount.
- 19-

SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
l. For the > purposes of this Schedule: —

(a) ~ the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (6) set forth
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

(b) ~~ the term "eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories i in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and —

(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$100,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2. Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

3. After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
_ withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:

(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

(b) | (i) For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall
| | furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account
_ at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. |

(ii) | Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required |
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the
- 20 -

Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for
eligible expenditures. :

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.

4. For each payment made by the: Borrower out of the Special Account, the —
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank —
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures. :

5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

(a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph @) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; |

(b) if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in i respect of the audit of the
records and accounts for the Special Account;

| (c) if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention —
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or

— (dd) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to expenditures
covered by such eligible Categories, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.

_ Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after
and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining

 
-21-

on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures. |

6. (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the
Special Account: (1) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or,
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) ai amount equal to the amount of such
_ payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may
be.

| -(b) Ifthe Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank |
such outstanding amount.

— (c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

(d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this

Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for

cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
| INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

CERTIFICATE |

[ hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of |
the original in the archives of the International Bank

for Reconstruction and Development.

SW ls

FOR SECRETARY

 
