OFFICIAL |

Py * 7
c rr ‘ i S _ Gs
a i i
3 } S .
4 ut ‘ fc
. ny Lad . a
EET SAI TET oe .

Public Disclosure Authorized

   

LOAN NUMBER 3922 BUL

Loan Agreement

(Railway Rehabilitation Project)

Public Disclosure Authorized

between

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

and

BULGARIAN STATE RAILWAYS

Dated Movember ¥ ,1995

(a a a

 
LOAN NUMBER 3922 BUL
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT, dated Novem ber y , 1995 between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION ANI) DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and Bulgar‘an
State Railways (BDZ) (the Borrower).

| WHEREAS (A) Republic of Bulgaria (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having —
been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

| (B) by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith
between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations
of the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth
in the Guarantee Agreement; |

(C) the Borrower intends to contract from European Bank for Reconstruction
and Development (EBRD) a loan (the EBRD Loan) in an amount equivalent to
$45,000,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the EBRD Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
EBRD; and

WHEREAS th: Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;

‘NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
_ ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
_ Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

(a) The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

(b) +#iIn Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) 3 is re-lettered as ‘sub-paragraph (I) and a
new sub-paragraph (kK) 1S added to read: | .

 
 

 

» . a

-2-

-

"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any —
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the

provisions of Article i, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of f Agreement.” "

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in

the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective

meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:

(a) "Contract Plan" means a multi-annual contract plan entered into between
the Guarantor and BDZ, governing the respective responsibilities of the Guarantor and
BDZ in operating the railways;

6) "PMT" means the Project Management Team to be maintained by BDZ, in
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.03 of this Agreement;

(c) "Railway Law" means the draft Railway Law approved by
the Council of Ministers of the Guarantor on April 28, 1994;

(d) "Restructuring Action Plan" or "RAP" means the plan, agreed with the

Bank, which sets objectives and implementation actions for all aspects of BDZ's activity |

and organization, including operation, financial and environmental targets to be reached;

(e) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this —

Agreement; and

(f) "Statutes" means the statutes of the Borrower, dated September 1, 1989, as
amended on February 25, 1992 and authorized by Resolution No. 50 of the Council of
Ministers of the Guarantor, dated March 30, 1989, provided, however, that this term shall
mean the statutes to be adopted by the Borrower as part of its restructuring in accordance
with the Railway Law.

ARTICLE Hf
The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions
set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that shall have an

aggregate value equivalent to the amount of ninety-five million dollars ($95,000,000), ©

being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by

the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

eo ye ee
&.

 
-3-

| Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan |
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable —
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

(b) The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in
doilars a special deposit acccunt in a commercial bank acceptable tc the Bark on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protecticn against set-off, seizure
or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shali be made in
~ accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such later date as the
Bank shall establish. The Bank shail promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of
such later date.

_.. Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan
not withdrawn from time to time.

_ Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the

Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal —

to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus

one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this

Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding

during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period. |

(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of such Semester.

(c) For the purposes of this Section:

@ "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date

_ immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this

Agreement, beginning with the Interest Pericd in which this
Agreement is signed.

(ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably
| determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum,
-4-

of the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June
30, 1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the
Bank has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B)
loans which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
interest rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph
(a) of this Section.

(111) "Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of
a calendar year. ;

(d) On such date as the Bank may specify iby no less than six months' notice to
the Borrower, paragraphs (a),.(b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as-
follows: |

"(a) | The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the

Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal

to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding

Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in _

Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the

principal amount outstanding during the Perene Interest Period, calculated at the
rates applicable during such Interest Peri

"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Quarter."

"(c) (aii) - ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing on
~ January 1, April L, July 1 or October l ina calendar year.”

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on June 15
and December 15 1n each year. |

| Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in.
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE If |
Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the
_5-

Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and technical practices, and shall provide, or cause to
be provided, promptly as — the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.

| Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods |
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

Section 3.03. The Borrower shall maintain a PMT with membership, staff and
other resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, with functions and
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, including the overall coordination, administration
and supervision of the activities to be carried out under the Project and the procurement of
goods and services required thereof.

Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) carry out the Restructuring Action Plan with

due diligence and efficiency; (b) review with the Bank and the Guarantor, by May 31 of
each year, the progress achieved in the carrying out of the same; and (c) within three

- months of each such review, update the sarie and, thereafter, implement all measures
required to ensure the efficient carrying out thereof during the period after such review,
taking 1 into consideration the Bank's view on the matter.  @

. Section 3.05. Not later than one month | prior to submission of the relevant draft law
on the state budget to the Guarantor's Parliament for each fiscal year, starting in 1996, the
Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank with regard to the execution of the Contract
Plan, the performance of the Borrower's obligations under the Contract Plan and on the
resource requirements and other actions necessary for the subsequent year in order to
achieve the objectives stated in the Contract Plan.

Section 3.06. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the General
Conditions, the Borrower shall:

(a) prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose b between the Bank and the Borrower, a plan for the future operation
of the Project;

(b) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the
Borrower on said plan; and

 
-6-

(c) thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Bank's comments thereon.

ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower

- Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial and technical practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers. | }

Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain its plants, |
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed,
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, alli m accordance with sound engineering, |
financial and technical practices. |

Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers
or make other provision, satisfactory to the Bank, for insurance against such risks and in
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.

ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants

Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial
condition.

(b) The Burrower shall:

(i) have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance

| sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors appointed
by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank;

(ii) | furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later
‘than six months after the end of each such year: (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited; and

 
7.

(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

(111) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

(c) . For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

(i) maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, records
and accounts reflecting such expenditures; — |

(ii) _ retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit
_ report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,

bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;

(iii) | enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and

(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such audit contains a
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted

during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls invoived in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

- Remedies of the Bank

| Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 @e of the Geneval Conditions, the following
additional events are specified:

(a) Statutes shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or

waived so as to affect materially and adversely the e ability of BDZ to ) perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.

(b) (i) — Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any
loan or grant made to the Borrower for the financing of

 
8.

the Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms
thereof, or | |

(B) = any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to
| . the agreed maturity thereof.

(ii) Subparagraph (1) of: this ‘paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension,
cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perfortn any of its obligations under such agreement; and (B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the © obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.

~ Seciion 6.02. Pursuant to Section 1. 01 (h) of the General Conditions, the following
additional events are specified:

(a) = any event specified in paragraph (b)1XA) of Section 6.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
_ have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and

(b) the events specified in paragraphs (a) and (bXiX(B) of Section 6.01 of this
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b\ii) of that Section.

ARTICLE Vil

Effective Date; Termination

Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (°) of the.
General Conditions: | |

| (a) the Railway Law has been promulgated and has come into full force and —
effect; | ) | | |

(b) the Contract Plan has been duly executed on behalf of the Guarantor and
the Borrower and hes entered into force; and :

| (c) alll conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the EBRD Loan Agreement
have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.

 
-9.

Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Contract Plan has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Guarantor and the Borrower and is s legally binding upon the
Guarezitor and the Borrower in accordance with its terms.

Section 7.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

ARTICLE Vill
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 8.01. The Director Genera! of the Borrower is designated as representative |
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General (Conditions:

For the Bank:

International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433.

United States of America

Cable address: | Telex:

_ INTBAFRAD | 197688 (TRT), |
Washington, D.C. 248423 (RCA),.
| 64145 (WUD or
— $2987 (FTCC)

For the Borrower:

Bulgarian State Railways
3, Ivan Vazov Street
1080 Sofia

Republic of Bulgaria
Ps

“44

~~

-10-

Telex:

22423
22936

JO

Pa

way

7
-11-

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By | Is/ Chnistiaan TJ. Foorvtman
| Aetina Regional Vice President
a qd Europe and Central Asia
BULGARIAN STATE RAILWAYS
By I3/ Snezhana. Botusharwa.

Authorized Representative
Jf

—-12-—
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1, The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

Amount of the
Loan Allocated % of
| | | (Expressed in Expenditures
(1) Goods for 90,000,000 100% of foreign
Parts A and B | | expenditures,
of the Project | | | 100% of local
| expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) aiid 80%
of local
_ expenditures for
other items |
procured locally
(2) Training and — | ~ 900,000 100%
related services for | |
_ Part F of the Project
(3) Unallocated | 4,100,000
TOTAL 95,000,000 |

2. For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of
any country other than that of the Borrower; and
-13-

(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the.
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. |

3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be
_ made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000, may be made in
| respect of Category 2 on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but
after April 24, 1995.

4, The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for goods and services not
exceeding $250,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.
-14-
SCHEDULE 2.
Description of the Project

The objective of the Project i is to support and deepen the restructuring process of
the railway system of the Borrower.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as
the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Fart A:

Track renewal and maintenance of priority routes, including renewal of over 400
km of priority lines, together with introduction of new technology, replacement of track
maintenance machines, including spare parts, re-equipment of the rail welding shop and
introduction of rail lubricators. |

Part B:
Design and implementation of an integrated management information system and

upgrading of the data transmission network, including Freight and Passenger Information
System and Financial Information System.

Part C:
Upgrading of signalling and telecommunications systems.
Part D:

| Improvement of traction and rolling stock, including provision of equipment, spare
parts and tools to maintenance depots located at the main nodes of the network.

Part E:

Rehabilitation of passenger coaches.

 
-15-
Part F:
Provision of training for upper and middle management of BDZ and the Ministries

of Finance and Transport on topics that include, inter_alia, management, marketing,
| finance, accounting and environment.

The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

SCHEDULE 3
| 7 Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due (expressed in dollars)*

December 15, 2000 1,825,000
June 15, 2001 1,890,000
December 15, 2001 1,960,000
June 15, 2002 2,030,000
December 15, 2002 2,100,000
June 15, 2003 2,175,000
December 15, 2003 2,250,000
June 15, 2004 | 2,330,000
December 15, 2004 2.415,000
June 15, 2005 2,500,000
_ December 15, 2005 _ 2,590,000
— June 15, 2006 2,680,000
December 15, 2006 | 2,775,000
June 15, 2007 2,875,000
December 15, 2007 2,975,000
June 15, 2008 3,080,000
December 15, 2008 3,190,000
June 15, 2009 3,305,000
December 15, 2009 3,420,000
June 15, 2010 3,540,000
December 15, 2010 3,665,000
June 15, 2011 3,795,000

December 15, 2011 3,930,000 ©
June 15, 2012 4,070,000

December 15, 2012 4,215,000
June 15,2013 4,365,000
- December 15, 2013 4,520,000
~ June 15, 2014 4,680,000
December 15, 2014 4,845,000
June 15, 2015 5,010,000

* The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the
_ -417-
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on

the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below: _ Rs

im nt a | | Premium
The interest rate (expressed as a

percentage per annum) applicable to the
Loan on the day of prepayment

multiplied by:
Not more than 3 years | : | | 0.15
before maturity |
More than 3 years but _ | 0.30
not more than 6 years
before maturity
More than 6 years but | | 0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not | | 0.80
| more than 16 years
before maturity
‘More than 16 years but not og 0.90
more than 18 years |
before maturity
More than 18 years before | | 1.00

maturity
“18.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section.I. Procurement of Goods :
Part A: Intemational Competitive Bidding

OL Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts
_ awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and I
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines) and in accordance with the following additional
procedures:

(a) When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period,
such period may be extended once, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete the
evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract. The bid
validity period may be extended a second time only if the bidding documents or the request
for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid price to reflect changes in
the cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. Such an increase in the bid
price shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation. With respect to each contract
_ made subject to the Bank's prior review in accordance with the provisions of Part D.1 (a) of
this Section, the Bank's prior approval will be required for (i) a first extension of the bid
validity period if the period of extension exceeds sixty (60) days, and (ii) any subsequent

extension of the bid validity period.

(b) For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 2.13
of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each week of delay by
two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such
an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.

(c) In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the Borrower
shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such
modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the
Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the.
Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other intemationally recognized standard
forms agreed with the Bank.
-19-

2. To the extent practicable, contracts for materials and equipment shall be grouped
into 19 bid packages, 15 of which shall cost the equivalent of $1,000,009 or more.

Part B: Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

In the procurement of goods 1 in accordance with the procedures described i in Part A
hereof, goods manufactured in the Republic of Bulgaria may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of
the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C: Other Procurement Procedures

1. Items or groups of items for rail welding plant equipment and rail lubricators may _
be procured under contracts awarded through limited international bidding procedures on
the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids obtained from a list of qualified suppliers _
eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with procedures set forth in Sections I and

II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55, 2.56 thereof). |

2. Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of $250, 000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $700,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least
three suppliers from at least three different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

3. Goods which the Bank agrees are of proprietary nature or must be purchased from
the original supplier to be compatible with existing equipment, up to an aggregate amount
of $300,000, may be awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank. | |

Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1, Review of invitations to bid and of ‘proposed awards and final contracts:

(a) With respect to each contract referred to in Parts A, C. 1 and C.2 of this |
Schedule for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more, and each contract
referred to in Part C.3 of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of |
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
. of the Special Account in respect of such contract.

 
-20-

(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said ©

paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant

to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

(c). The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure.

2. The figure of 15% i is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix I l
to the Guidelines.

1. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shal! be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). —
For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under
_ contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank,
with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard
- contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard
forms agreed with the Bank. _ |

2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of the
Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall
not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cosi less
than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for the employment of individuals
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank
review shall not apply to: (i) the terms of reference for such contracts; (ii) single source |
selection of consulting firms; (iii) to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably
determined by the Bank; (iv) to amendments of contracts for employment of consulting
firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (v) amendments to

 
-21-

contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to
$50,000 equivalent or above. |

 
72.

SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1. For the Purposes of this Schedule:

(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in the
— table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means “expenditures in respect of the
_ reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A, B and F of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

‘(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount
equivalent to $2,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account
plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank -
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the
equivalent of $10, 000,000. |

2. Payments out of the Special Account shail be made exclusively for cligible
expenditures 1 in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

3. After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has
been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals
to © replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:

(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits into the Special Accoun: of an
amount or amounts which shall not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Bank shall have deterinined to be so required.

(0b) (i) For replcnishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall -
| furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. |

 
-23-

(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall

_ furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required

pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or

payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the

basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the

Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the

Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have

requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and

_ other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for
eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.

4. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures. |

5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

| (a) Gf at any time, the Bank shall have. determined that all further withdrawals
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreements

(b) if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period
of time specitied in Section 5.01 (b){ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required
to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account; .

(c) if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or

| (d) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, —
Og

-24-

shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter,
witidrawals from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan

allocated to be eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify _

by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.

6. (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall! so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the ©
Borrower has provided such eviderce or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. _

(b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank |
such outstanding amount.

(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

(a) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
_ General Conditions.
INTERNATIONAL BANK |
FOR & RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

CERTIFICATE

I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank

for Reconstruction and Development.

SXLCZ,’

FOR SECRETARY

 
