‘OFFICIAL |
| DOCUMENTS |

LOAN NUMBER 3951-DO

Loan Agreement

(Second Basic Education Development Project)
between
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
and

IN TERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated Rely hep 3/ — , 1996

 

 

~N
LOAN NUMBER 3951-DO
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT, dated Ockibow 3 /, 1996 . between DOMINICAN
REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK F OR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank
to assist in the financing of the Project; )

(B) the Borrower intends to contract from the Inter-American Development Bank
(IDB) a loan (the IDB Loan) in an amount equivalent to $52,000,000 to assist in
financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (ihe
IDB Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and IDB; and

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement; | :

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLEL
General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee —
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985 with the modifications set forth below
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

(a) The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b) The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modificd to read:

"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the
territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods |
produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the
purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of
goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Bank, iS
prohibited by a decision of the

_ United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter
of the United Nations. " |

 
(c) — In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as s subparagraph (1) and a
new subparagraph (k) is added to read: |

"(k) An. extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any further -
withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of
Article III, Section 3 of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement.". "

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the severat terms defined in
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings: |

(a) “Affiliated Entity" means any entity under the jurisdiction of SEEBAC;
(b) "Basic Education" means pre-primary, primary (which includes first

through sixth grades) and lower secondary (which: includes seventh and eighth grades)
education; | S

 

 

(c) | "Central Bank” means ; the Central Bank Banco Central de la Renta
Dominicana) of the Borrower; .

(d) "Community Entity" means any group of individuals or entity (other than
_ Parents’ Associations) acceptable to the Bank;

(e) "Curriculum Innovations" means any proposal, acceptable to the Bank,
made by a Parents’ Association through SEEBAC to support the implementation of the
new curriculum referred to in Part A. 1(a) of the Project;

~—#é "Implementation Letter" means the letter of even date herewith from the
Borrower to the Bank which sets forth the minimum counterpart funds necessary to carry |
out the Project and the Project indicators and targets; |

(g) "INDOFANE" means the National Institute of School Nutrition Gnsttut .

 

 

(h) "NGO" means a non-governmental organization, acceptable to the
Borrower and the Bank;

@ | "Operational Manual" means the manual, satisfactory to the Bank (adopted
by the Borrower), which sets forth, inter alia: (i) the terms of reference of the training
; , :

programs to be carried out under the Project; (ii) the procurement procedures to be
followed by the Borrower, through SEEBAC, in carrying out the Project (including the
standard bidding documents referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement); (iii) the terms
and conditions of a model Participation Agreement; (iv) the criteria for selecting schools
under Part A.2 (e) of the Project; and (v) the criteria for selecting schools under Part A.6
of the Project; |

| (Gj) “Parents’ Association" means a parents’ association of a public school
providing Basic Education duly acknowledged by SEEBAC;

_(k) "Participation Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement,

(1) "PCU" means the Project coordinating unit referred to in Section 3.04 (a)
of this Agreement; |
(m) "Pesos" means the currency of the Borrower;
| (n) "Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 3.01(d) of this
Agreement; | | |
| (0) ~"SEEBAC" means the Secretariat of State for Education, Fine Arts and

Cults (Secretaria de Estado de Educacion, Bellas Artes y Culto) of the Borrower;

 

(P) "SESPAS" means the Secretariat of Public Health and Social Assistance
(Secretari a de Estado de Salud Publica y Asistencia Social) of the Borrower; and

~q) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of this
Agreement. |
ARTICLE I
The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that shall
have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of thirty-seven million Dollars
- ($37,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
| withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal. |

"Section 2. 02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan

 
\, .
-4. ot
4

Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

(b) — The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in
Dollars a special deposit account in the Central Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory -
to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall i be made 1 in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. |

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date as the
Bank shall establisi. The Bank shali promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

Section 2.04... The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the:
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal
- amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate ° applicable |
during such Interest Period.

(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
Semester.

(c) For the purposes of this Section:

i) "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date

immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this

Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this
Agreement is signed. .

(ii) | “Cost of Qualified Borrowings” means the cost, as reasonably
_ determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per
annum, of the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down

after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank’s
-§-

investments; and 4B) loans which may be made by the Bank after
July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise than as
provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

(111) "Semester" means the first six months or the second six months |
of a calendar year.

(d) . Onsuch date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months’ notice
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to read
_ as follows: |

"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of
‘one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest

_accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such
Interest Period. "

_ "(b) 43s soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified |
Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

"(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing on
January i; April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."

Section 2. 06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on Apri
15 and October 15 in each year.

‘Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

Section 2.08. The Secretary of State of SEEBAC.(or such other person or
persons as such Secretary of State shall appoint in writing) is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions. | |

 
-6-

ARTICLE Hl
Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the |
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out: (i)
Parts A.1(a),(b),(c),(d),(f) and (g), A.2, A.3, A.4, A.5(a),(b),(c),(e),(f) and (g), A.6(a),(b)
and (d), A.7, B.1, B.2, B.3(a) through (d) and B.4 of the Project, through SEEBAC; (ii)
Parts A.1 (e) and A.6 (c) of the Project, through SEEBAC with the participation of the
Parents’ Associations or Community Entities, as the case may be (as provided in
paragraph (b) below); and Part A.5(d) of the Project, through SEEBAC with the
assistance of SESPAS, al! with due diligence and efficiency in accordance with the
Operational Manual, and in conformity with appropriate managerial, administrative,
financial and educational practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.

(b) Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above and for
purposes of carrying out Parts A.i (€), A.6 (c) and B.3 (e) of the Project, the Borrower,
_ through SEEBAC, shall enter into a participation agreement (the Participation Agreement)
with the corresponding Parents’ Association or Community Entity (as the case may be)
’ under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. —

(c) Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the
Borrower shali allocate in each of its annual budgets for the education sector, and make
available promptly as needed in Pesos equivalent, the counterpart funds required for
Project implementation (including the minimum amounts set forth in the Implementation
Letter for each year of Project implementation) provided, however, that if any such
counterpart funds is not used in the corresponding year, such funds shall be reallocated
to subsequent years in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, as may be required for the
efficient execution of the Project. |

(d) Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the
| Borrower shall open, and thereafter operate and maintain, until the completion of the
Project, a Project account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for the purposes of depositing and managing the
counterpart funds required for Project implementation referred to in paragraph (c) above.

(e) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shail not amend,
assign, abrogate, suspend, waive or fail to enforce any Participation Agreement or any
provision thereof.
27

(f) Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above, the Borrower
shall carry out the Project taking into account the Project indicators and targets set forth
in the Implementation Letter.

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the
goods, works and consuitanis’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement. |

Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions, and —
without Himitation thereto, the Borrower shall:

(a) prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to ~
the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan, for the future

operation of the Project; and |

(b) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the
Borrower on said plan.

Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shail establish, and thereafter operate and maintain
until the completion of the Project, a Project coordination unit (the PCU) with functions
and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter alia, the responsibility of
assisting SEEBAC in: (i) preparing the reports referred to in Section 3.05 of this
Agreement; (ii) carrying out the procurement of goods, works and consultants services
required for the Project; and (iii) coordinating and monitoring the execution of the Project.

-(b) ‘The Borrower shall ensure that the PCU is at all times headed by a
Project coordinator assisted by staff in adequate numbers, all with qualifications
acceptable to the Bank.

Section 3.05. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General

Conditions, the Borrower, through SEEBAC, shall not later than February 1 of each year

during Project implementation, starting in 1996, prepare and furnish to the Bank an annual

_ report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank may reasonably request with respect

_ to: (a) the progress made by the Borrower in carrying out the Project during the preceding

twelve months; and (b) the activities to be carried out under the Project during the twelve
months following the date of presentation of such report to the Bank.

Section 3.06. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the
General Conditions, the Borrower shall not later than February 28 of each year during
-3-

Projéct implementation, starting in 1996, jointly review with the Bank and the IDB, the
progress made by the Borrower in: (i) carrying out the Project; and (ii) achieving the
objectives of the Project. Such review shall, inter alia, focus on analyzing the progress
reports referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement for the corresponding year of Project
implementation. As part of each such review the Bank may require that the Borrower
prepare an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to make adjustments in Project —
implementation. If so, the Borrower shall furnish such action plan to the Bank not later
than thirty days after the conclusion of the review in question and shall thereafter carry

out, or cause to be carried out, such action plan in accordance with its terms. |

_ (b) ~~ The Borrower shall participate in a Project implementation mid-term
review to be held with the Bank and the IDB as part of the annual review to be held not
later than February 28, 1999 or such later date as the Bank shall establish.

Section 3.07. Without limitation 16 the provisions of Section 3.01(a) of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall not later than twelve months after the Effective Date
establish, and thereafter operate and maintain at least during Project implementation the
entity referred to in Part A.2(g) of the Project with functions and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Bank, including those referred to in such Part of the Project.

ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants |

Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records -
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
_ the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.

(b) ~~ The Borrower shall:

(i) have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this
| Section, including those for the Special Account for each fiscal
_ year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the

Bank; | | | :

(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
-9.

furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said

(iii)
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request. 7
(c) F or all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan

Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

sate
rs

(i)

(ii)

“ii
v)

Section 5.01.
/ following additional events are specified:

maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;

retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the

Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account was made,

all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other

_ dcecuments) evidencing such expenditures;

enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and

ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual

audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals.

ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank

‘Pursuant to Section 6. 02 (1) of the General Conditions, the.

(a) that the Borrower shall have enacted legislation (including the issuance
of any decree, resolution or act by the Executive Power of the Borrower) that may affect,

in the opinion of the Bank, materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to

perform any of its obligations or undertakings set forth or referred to in this Agreement.

() (i)

subject to subparagraph (ii) of this Section:
= 10-

(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of

_ any grant or loan made to the Borrower for the financing

of the Project, including the IDB Loan, shall have been

suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,

pursuant to the terms of the respective agreement
providing therefor; or .

—B) | any such loan, including the IDB Loan shall have
| become due and payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof; |

(ii) subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that:

(A) — such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring —

| is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under such agreements, including
the IDB Loan Agreement; and

(B) adequate funds for the Project are available to the
| Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement. |

(c) The IDB Loan Agreement shall have failed to become effective by
December 31, 1996 or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that the
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction
of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from other

sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement. .

Section 5. 02. Pursuant to Section 7. 01 &) of the General Conditions, the
following additional events are e specified: |

(a) | that any event specified | in Paragraph (a) of Section 5. 01 of this
Agreement shall occur; and |

(b) that the event specified in subparagraph (b) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of subparagraph (b) (ii) of that Section.
-11l-

ARTICLE VI .
Effective Date; Termination

| Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:

(a) that the Borrower has allocated in its annual budget for the education
sector the amount set forth in the Implementation Letter for the first year of Project
implementation, as provided in Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement;

—(b) that the Borrower shall have opened the Project Account as provided in
Section 3.01(d) of this Agreement and deposited therein an amount equivalent to
$400,000; |

(c) that the Borrower shall have adopted an internal accounting system
satisfactory to the Bank;

(a) that the Borrower shall have adopted the Operational Manual; and .

(e) that the Borrower shall have: (i) established the PCU; and (11) appointed
_ the PCU’s Project coordinator, as provided in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement.

Section 6.02. The date foriety Ad, /994 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of thé General Conditions. — |

ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the
Secretario de Estado de Finanzas of the Borrower is designated as representative of the |

Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:
-12-

For the Borrower:

Secretaria de Estado de Finanzas
- Avenida México |

Santo Domingo

Republica Dominicana

F or the Bank:

International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development

1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address: | Telex:
_ INTBAFRAD 248423 (MCI) or

Washington, D.C. | — 64145 (MCD

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, as of the day and year first above written.

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
py // Eduaphlo Sl prix)

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT >

By /°/ faut Leer peer)

Regional Vice President
Latin/America and the Caribbean
-13-

SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the ©

percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

Amount of the

Loan Allocated. % of
| (Expressed in Expenditures
Category | Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) Works (other than 13,100,000 78%

preventive .

maintenance) under

Part A.6 (a) and (b)

of the Project

(2) Goods:

(a) Maintenance . 4,000,000 100% until
materials under | withdrawals have
Part A.6 (c) of — : reached and aggregate |
the Project — | - amount equivalent

. $1,300,000; and
70% thereafter

(b) Educational 4,300,000 | 100% of foreign

materials (other | expenditures and 92%

than textbooks | of local expenditures
and workbooks) |
under Parts A.2
(e), (d) and (e),
A.4 (a), A.5 (g)
and B.3 of the

_ Project
-14-

- Amount of the

- Loan Allocated | % of .
| (Expressed in Expenditures
Category Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(c) Equipment and a 400,000 100% of foreign —
| vehicles under | _ expenditures and 92%
Parts A.4 (a) and | | of local expenditures
A.5 (e) of the |
Project
(3) Pharmaceuticals under - 400,000 50%
Part A.5 (b), (c) and |
(d) of the Project
(4) Consultants’ Services 6,100,000 100%
(including individual |
consultants for the
~ PCU) |
(5) Training under Parts ——--§, 500,000 100%
A.3, A.4 (a) and (b) |
and B.3 of the
Project
(6) Unallocated a 3,200,000
TOTAL — --- 37,000,000

2. For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory
of any country other than that of the Borrower; |

(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and

(c) the term "Training" means expenditures (other than for consultants’ services)
_made in connection with the training activities under the Project, including the travel costs

 
~15-—

and per diems of the trainees.

3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shal] be made
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except.
_ that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000, may be made in respect.
of Categories (1) through (5) set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after May 31, 1995.

4, The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to 5 be made on the basis
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) contracts for Educational
Materials estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent with the exception of the first
contract to be awarded under Part C.2(a) of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(b) contracts for works estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or less with the exception
of the first contract to be awarded under Part C.2(b) of Section I of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement; (c) contracts for Maintenance Materials estimated to cost the equivalent of
$300 or less per classroom; (d) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated
to cost less than $75,000 equivalent; (e) contracts for the employment of individual
consultants estimated to cost less than $35,000 equivalent; and (f) Training as set forth

in Category (5) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, all under such terms and
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
- 16 -

SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project |

The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the quality of Basic Education
_ in the territory of the Borrower; (b) to increase student enrollment in Basic Education,
_ including the enrollment of children from low-income families; and (c) to strengthen the
management capacity of SEEBAC in respect of Basic Education.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:

Part A: Educational Development
1. Curriculum Reform
(a) Carrying out of a national campaign to promote the introduction of a new

curriculum for Basic Education.

(b) — Provision of technical assistance to SEEBAC in order to assist SEEBAC
in introducing the new curriculum referred to in Part A.1(a) above in their respective
_ public schools which provide Basic Education, including the provision of training required
therefor.

(c) Design and distribution of manuals for teachers and Parents’ Associations
to provide teachers and Parents’ Associations in the area of Basic Education with
information on the contents of the new curriculum referred to in Part A.1(a) above and
to assist SEEBAC in monitoring the introduction of such curriculum in public schools
providing Basic Education, including the provision of training required therefor.

(d) Creation of additional curriculum resource centers in SEEBAC’s regional
offices in order to assist public schools providing Basic Education in adopting the new
curriculum referred to in Part A.1 (a) above, including the provision of training to such
centers’ personnel and the acquisition and utilization of the equipment required therefor.

(e) Carrying out of Curriculum Innovations.

(f) Design and distribution of guidelines for SEEBAC to manage the
implementation of the new v curriculum referred to in Part A.1(a) above.
_17-

(g) Carrying out of a review on the progress made in introducing the new
curriculum referred to in Part A.1(a) above in public schools providing Basic Education.

2. Educational Materials

| (a) Design, production and distribution of textbooks and workbooks (which
will be designed based on the new curriculum referred to in Part A.1(a) above) in the
areas of mathematics, natural sciences, social sciences and Spanish for students of public
schools attending first through eighth grades.

(b) Design and distribution of teachers’ guides that will enable the teachers
to use the textbooks and workbooks referred to in Part A.2(a) above. |

(c) Acquisition and distribution of required educational materials (other than —
textbooks and workbooks referred to in Part A.2(a) above) under the new curriculum
referred to in Part A.1(a) above for students attending public schools providing Basic
Education.

— (dd) Acquisition and distribution of classroom didactic packages (each package
consisting, inter alia, of a map, a globe and educational charts) for all public schools
providing Basic Education.

(ec) Acquisition and distribution of school supplies consisting, inter alia, of
notebooks, pencils and erasers for low-income students attending public schools providing
Basic Education, in accordance with the criteria set forth i in the Operational Manual.

(f) Creation of school libraries for the benefit of pre-school classes and first
through eighth grades. .

(g) Creation of an educational materials entity that will coordinate and
manage: (i) the design, production, printing or acquisition (as the case may be) and
distribution of textbooks, workbooks and other educational materials to public schools
providing Basic Education and (ii) the sale of textbooks, workbooks and other educational -
materials to private schools providing Basic Education, including the provision of
technical assistance and the acquisition and utilization of the equipment required therefor.

3. | Human Resources Development

(a) Carrying out of an in-service training program (based on the new
curriculum referred to in Part A.1(a) above) for school directors, school supervisors and
teachers of public schools providing Basic Education consisting of: (i) training in the areas
-18-

of mathematics, natural s sciences, social sciences and Spanish; (ii) training on teaching
techniques; and (iii) granting training certificates thereafter.

(b) Carrying out of an in-service training program for school directors, school
supervisors and teachers who have completed the training program referred to in Part
A.3(a) above consisting of: (i) training on pedagogical skills, school management and
teaching specialties; and (i1) granting associate, bachelors or masters degrees, as the case
may be, thereafter.

(c) Carrying out of a program which consists of providing pre-service training
to candidates for teaching positions in the same areas described under the program
referred to in Part A.3(a) above.

() Provision of technical assistance to SEEBAC to strengthen its capacity
to coordinate teacher training activities.

4. National Student Achievement

(a) Provision of technical assistance to SEEBAC to strengthen its capacity to
design, distribute, administer and evaluate a student achievement test for Basic Education,
including the provision of training and the acquisition and utilization of the equipment
required therefor and the printing and distribution of such test during Project
implementation.

(b) Provision of training to teachers of public schools providing Basic
Education and SEEBAC’s personnel in designing and analyzing each of the questions to
be included in a student achievement test.

(c) | Carrying out of surveys within the Borrower’s territory to assess the
impact of school and socio-economic factors in student achievement. ©

(d) Carrying out of an analysis of the student achievement test.

5. School Nutrition Programs

(a) Strengthening of school nutrition programs for the provision of food to
low-income students attending urban and rural public schools providing Basic Education
by means of training on nutritional matters to SEEBAC’s personnel, the parents of the
students attending such schools and other members of the community where such public
schools are located. .
-19-

(b) Provision of iron and vitamin A to the students attending the public
‘schools benefited by the school nutrition programs referred to in Part A.5(a) above.

(c) | Design and implementation of an iron and vitamin A supplementation
program for the benefit of students not benefited by the school nutrition programs referred
to in Part A.5(a) above. |

(d) Provision of pharmaceuticals for the students being benefited by the
school nutrition programs referred to in Part A.5(a) above. |

(e) Institutional strengthening of INDOFANE in designing and executing
programs on school nutrition and health, including the provision of technical assistance,
equipment and training required therefor.

(fi) Carrying out of studies on: (i) the nutrition status and needs of children
who attend public schools providing Basic Education; and (ii) the cost-effectiveness of
schools’ nutrition programs.

(g) Design and implementation of information, education and communication
programs on school nutrition, including the provision of educational materials and training
to SEEBAC’s personnel that will implement such programs.

6. School Facilities

(a) Construction of about 70 classrooms in the public schools providing Basic
Education, to be selected in accordance with the criteria set forth in the Operational
Manual. ,

(b) —_ Rehabilitation of classrooms in public schools providing Basic Education,
to be selected in accordance with the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual.

(c) Carrying out of preventive maintenance of the public schools providing
Basic Education, to be selected i in accordance with the criteria set forth i in the Operational
Manual. .

| (dd) Acquisition and utilization of classroom furniture for the public schools
providing Basic Education, to be selected in accordance with the criteria set forth in the

Operational Manual.

7. Pilot Program to Support Private Schools
-20-

(ai) Provision of technical assistance to SEEBAC in order to identify and
employ NGOs for purposes of assisting SEEBAC in the identification and selection of
private schools providing Basic Education to low-income students which are in need of
school improvements; and (ii) carrying out of the identification and selection of private
schools providing Basic Education mentioned in (i) herein.

(b)(i) Provision of technical assistance to the private schools which have been
identified and selected by NGOs as referred to in Part A.7 (a) (ii) above in order to
improve such schools’ facilities, and (ii) carrying out of minor works within the schools
referred to in (i) herein in order to improve the health and educational services of such
schools.

| (c) Provision of in-service training to teachers of the private schools which
have been identified and selected by the NGOs as referred to in Part A.7(a)(ii) above.

(d) Acquisition and distribution of educational and teaching materials for the
private schools which have been identified and selected by NGOs.as retorted to in Part
A.7 (a) (11) above.

(e) ~ Institutional strengthening of SEEBAC’s department of private schools
in order to incorporate the private school management information system into SEEBAC’s
management information system. |

Part B: _ Management Development
lL. Training Program for Administrators

| (a) Provision of technical assistance to SEEBAC in order to improve its
management, budgetary, accounting and financial procedures, including the acquisition
| and utilization of the equipment required therefor.

(b) Carrying out of a study on administrative deconcentration of SEEBAC.
(c) Design and implementation of an ongoing training program for

SEEBAC’s administrative personnel based on the improved procedures resulting from the
carrying out of Part B.1(a) above.

2. Management Information System

(a) Linkage of SEEBAC’s national and sub-national offices, Affiliated
Entities and urban public schools providing Basic Education (with more than 600 students
-21-

each) through the installation of a telecommunications network.

(b) Installation of telephones in urban and rural public schools providing
Basic Education which have met the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual.

(c) Installation of ¢ a . radio communication system in rural public schools
providing Basic Education in order to improve the dissemination of educational and
management information to students and teachers.

(d) Improvement of SEEBAC’s central data processing systems in order to
incorporate such systems to SEEBAC’s management information system, including the
acquisition and utilization of the equipment required therefor.

(e) . Provision of training to SEEBAC’s personnel and the directors of public
schools providing Basic Education on the operation of the management information
system 1 referred to in Part B.2(d) above.

3. Parents’ Associations

Design and implementation of a national program for Parents’ Associations of
public schools providing Basic Education in order to foster their participation in the Basic
Education system, through: (a) the provision of training to such Parents’ Associations in
the areas of school organization and maintenance, leadership and fund raising; (b) the
provision of training to SEEBAC’s personnel in order to carry out the program referred
to herein; (c) the acquisition and utilization of motorcycles for SEEBAC’s personnel to
enable such personnel to carry out their duties and responsibilities under the program
referred to herein; (d) the design and distribution of the necessary information materials
to the Parents’ Associations with respect to the contents of the program referred to herein;
and (e) the carrying out of educational improvements.

4, | Monitoring and Evaluation System

Design and implementation of a monitoring and evaluation system to assist
SEEBAC in monitoring and evaluating the execution of the Project in accordance with
the Project indicators and targets set forth in the Implementation Letter.

ok ok x

The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

~22 -

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule
| | Payment of Principal |
Date Payment Due (expressed in Dollars)*
April 15, 2001 715,000
October 15, 2001 740,000 —
April 15, 2002 765,000
October 15, 2002 — 790,000
April 15, 2003 820,000
October 15, 2003 850,000 -
April 15, 2004 ~ 880,000
October 15, 2004 910,000
April 15, 2005 940,000
October 15, 2005 975,000
April 15, 2006 1,010,000
October 15, 2006 1,045,000
April 15, 2007 1,080,000
October 15, 2007 1,120,000
April 15, 2008 1,160,000
October 15, 2008 1,200,000
April 15, 2009 1,240,000
October 15, 2009 1,285,000
April 15, 2010 1,330,000
October 15, 2010 1,380,000
April 15, 2011 1,430,000
October 15, 2011 1,480,000
April 15, 2012 1,530,000
’ October 15, 2012 1,585,000
April 15, 2013 1,640,000
October 15, 2013 1,700,000
April 15, 2014 1,760,000
October 15, 2014 1,820,000
. April 15, 2015 —. 1,885,000
October 15, 2015 1,935,000
_* The figures in this column represent Dollar equivalents determined as of the
- 23 -

Premiums on Prepayment

_ Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on —
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage —
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:

Time of Prepayment

Not more than three years
before maturity

More than three years but
not more than six years"
before maturity

More than six years but
not more than 11 years
before maturity

More than 11 years but not
-more than 16 years
before maturity

More than 16 years but not
| more than 18 years
before. maturity

More than 18 years before
maturity

Premium

The interest rate (expressed as a
percentage per annum) applicable to the
Loan on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:

0.15
0.30
0.55

0.80

0.90

1.00
- 24 -

‘SCHEDULE 4
| Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I, Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A: General |

| Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section

I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section,
as applicable.

Part B: International Competitive Bidding ©
l. Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the

Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.

2. The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:

(a) Grouping of contracts

To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped in bid
packages estimated to cost each $250, 000 equivalent or more and $3,000,000 or more
each, respectively. . | a ,

(0) Two-stage bidding procedure

- The bidding procedure for library books shall be carried out in two stages i in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.6 of the Guidelines.

(c) Preference for domestically manufactured eoods |

The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 20
| thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
- 25 -

Part C: Other Procurement Procedures

 

1. Limited International Bidding |

Pharmaceuticals, computer and peripheral equipment, software and vehicles which
the Bank agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers, regardless of
the cost thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.

2. National Competitive Bidding

(a) Educational Materials estimated to cost more than $50,000 but less than

$250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $2,000,000,

may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs |
3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. |

(b) Works estimated to cost more than $250,000 equivalent but less than
$3,000,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.

(c) In the procurement of Educational Materials and works in accordance with
this Part C.2, the Borrower shall use standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank.

3. National Shopping

_ Educational Materials estimated to cost $50,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $1,800,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on |
the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. | |

4. Procurement of Small Works

Works estimated to cost $250,000 or less per contract, and not to exceed
~ $3,000,000 equivalent in the aggregate may be procured under lumpsum, fixed price
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed
description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a
basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable.
The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the
required work, and whe has the experience and resources to successfully complete the
contract.
- 26 -

5. Direct Contracting

(a) Maintenance Materials estimated to cost the equivalent of $300 or less per
classroom, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $4,400,000, may, with the Bank’s
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the
Guidelines. .

(b) Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $800,000, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.

Part E: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement Planning :

Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed
procurement plan fer the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions
of said paragraph 1. |

2. Prior Review |

With respect to: (a) each contract awarded under Parts B.1 and C.1 of this
Section; (b) the first contract awarded under Part C.2 (a) and (b) of this Section; and (c)
all contracts awarded under Part C.2 (b) of this Section estimated to cost more than
$500,000 equivalent, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. |

3. Post Review

With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

lL Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such
-27-

contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued
by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other
standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.

2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall
not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less
than $75,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the employment of individual
consultants estimated to cost less than $35,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions
to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b)
single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to $75,000 equivalent or above; or (e)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract
value to $35,000 equivalent or above.
- 28 -

‘SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
- |. For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a) the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth
In the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

(b) the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the
_ reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

(c) the. term “Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$1,800,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account |
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank —
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent
to $600,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the |
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of |
$5,500,000. |

2. Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

3, After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:

(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

(b) (i) For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. |
29 -

(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the -
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the »
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for
Eligible Expenditures.

Ail such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the
respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by said documents and other evidence.

4. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
Eligible Expenditures.

5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

(a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals |
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement,

(b) if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the
records and accounts for the Special Account;

(c) if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention _
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or

(d) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the

Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. |
- 30 -

_ Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of
the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.

6. (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant —
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or,
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall
_ otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.

(b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for Eligible
Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the
Bank such outstanding amount.

(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

(d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this
Schedule shali be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
INTERNATIONAL BANK —
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

CERTIFICATE

lhereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank |

for Reconstruction and Development.

 
