Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

Nie
ae

‘
” i*
. eo - : ¥
: ae ere ‘ f . ‘
i oan Ss r
. wo 8 Qt ae : aa 5
‘i . . & i e = : ft
: = TE? a
#4 ne gaan gate YR TI ty. Bae Fb
oes wanes

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 3884-TH

LOAN AGREEMENT

(Lam Takhong Pump Storage Project)

between

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION |
| AND DEVELOPMENT

and

ELECTRICITY GENERATING AUTHORITY OF THAILAND

paces lo, Love ho) Y , 1995

 

 

 
LOAN NUMBER 3884-TH

LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT, aateaSopbubon y , 1995, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the "Bank") and ELECTRICITY
GENERATING AUTHORITY OF ‘THAILAND (EGAT) (the. "Borrower") .

WHEREAS: (A) The Kingdom of Thailand (the "Guarantor") and
the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

WHEREAS: (B) By an agreement (the "Guarantee Agreement") of
even date herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor
has agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in re spect
of the Loan, and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in.
the Guarantee Agreement;

WHEREAS : (C) By an agreement, dated September 30, 1994 (the
"OECF Loan Agreement"), the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of
Japan (the "OECF") has agreed to make a loan (the "OECF Loan") to
the Borrower in an aggregate amount equivalent to eighteen thousand
two hundred forty-two million yen (¥18,242,000,000) to assist in
financing part of the Project, on the terms and conditions set forth
in the OECF Loan Agreement; and |

WHEREAS: (D) The Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions set forth in this Agreement.

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the "General Conditions") constitute
an integral part of this Agreement:

(a) The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

(b) In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (1), and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

 
"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:

(a) "Act" means the Guarantor’s EGAT Act B.E. 2511 (dated |
October 31, 1968), as amended to the date of this Agreement, estab-
lishing the Borrower as a state enterprise under the Guarantor’s
laws and regulations; _ | |

 

(b) "Environmental Mitigation and Development Plan" means
the Plan, adopted by the Guarantor on February 15, 1994, setting
forth: . a

(1) the requirements for managing the environmental
protection of all land and river areas under the
Borrower’s jurisdiction; and |

(ii) the modalities and procecures, for rehabilita-

| ting and compensating all persons whose liveli-
hood is to be afrected by the Project, or any
part thereof, so as to ensure the restoration or
enhancement of their livelihood and standard of
living up or beyond the levels enjoyed by them
prior to the commencement of the carrying out of
the Project; _

as such Plan has been complemented by the addendum ef August 1994,
and as it may be modified in accordance with Section 3.03 (b) of the.
Guarantee Agreement;

(Cc) "Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12)-month period corres-
ponding to any of the Borrower’s financial years, which period
commences on October 1 and ends on September 30 in each calendar
year, and the term "Fiscal Years" means collectively each of said
Fiscal Year; |

(d) "Investment Program" means the Borrower’s annual
investment program and related financing plan for each Fiscal Year,
beginning with the Fiscal Year 1995, and which Program is referred
to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement; :
- 3 7

(e) "Project Implementation Plan" means the Plan referred to
in Section 3.01 (b) of, and Schedule 5 to, this Agreement; and

(f) "Project Implementation Unit" means the Unit established
by the Borrower pursuant to its Resolution No. 3 dated March 9,
1994, which Unit is referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement.

ARTICLE II
The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the atount of one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and to be financed | out of the proceeds of the Loan. ,

: Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.

| Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal jamount of the Loan not witndrawn from time to
time. |

Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to .
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

 
- 4 -

| (b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

(Cc) For the purposes of this Section:

(i) "Interest Period" means a six-month period
- ending on the date immediately preceding each
date specified in Section 2.06 of | this
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in

which this Agreement is signed. _

(ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
as reasonably determined by the Bank and
expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings

or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
fund:

(A) the Bank’s investments; and

(B) loans which may be made by the Bank after
July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates
determined otherwise than as provided in

paragraph (a) of this Section.

(iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.

(da) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six |
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
applicable during such Interest Period."
- 5 -

"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of
each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
in respect of such Quarter." | |

"(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period —
commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
a calendar year."

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.

Section 2. 07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. |
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the

objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall:

(1) carry out the Project:
(A) with due diligence and efficiency;
(B) in accordance with the Environmental

Mitigation and Development Plan;

(C) in conformity with appropriate adminis-
trative, economic, energy, engineering,
financial and public utility practices;
and | |

(D) in accordance with appropriate safety,
health and environmental standards; and

(ii) provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and cther resources
required for the Project.

 
- 6 -

(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project
in accordance with the Project Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

Section 3.02. Without limitation cr restriction upon the
provisions of Article IX of the General Conditions or upon any of
the provisions of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:

. (a) prepare and furnish to the Bank, not iater than six (6)
months after the Closing Date, or such later date as may be agreed
for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan, of such |
scope and in. such detail as the bank shall reasonably request, for
the future operation of the Project;

((b) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan; and

(c) - thereafter, Carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into
account the Bank’s comments thereon. |

Section 3.03. Each Fiscal Year, beginning the Fiscal Year
ending September 30, 1995, the Borrower shall exchange views with
the Bank and the Guarantor on the Investment Program.

Section 3.04. Without limitation or restri ction upon the |
provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:

(a) maintain operational procedures fully adequate to enable
it to monitor and evaluate, on the basis of clear and pre-estab-
lished indicators, the carrying out of the Environmental Mitigation
and Development Plan; |

(b) prepare and furriish to the Guarantor and the Bank, not
later than March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 in each
Fiscal Year, beginning with the Fiscal Year ending September 30,
1995, a quarterly report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request, on the progress achieved in implemen-
ting the Environmental Mitigation and Development Plan based on the
monitoring and evaluation activities carried out pursuant to para-
graph (a) of this Section, together with any additional measures
proposed to further the progress in the carrying out of the said
Plan; |

 
- 7 =

(c) at the request of either the Guarantor or the Bank, to
facilitate and participate in an exchange of views between the Bank,
the Guarantor and the Borrower regarding any report prepared
pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section; and .

(da) thereafter, in its continued implementation of the
Project, promptly: .

(1) fuliy take into zccount any modification of the
- gaid Plan adopted in accordance with Section
3.03 (b) of the Guarantee Agreement; and

(ii) carry out any remedial or corrective action for |
implementation by the Borrower as otherwise
recommended or agreed to by the Guarantor and
the Bank in the context of an exchange of views

in pursuance of paragraph (c) of this Section.

Section 3.05. The Borrower shall maintain, until completion of
the Project, a Project Implementation Unit, responsible for the
overall supervision of Project implementation, in form and with such
composition as shall be satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower.

Section 3.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and services required for the
Project, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall
be governed by the provisiens of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

Section 3.07. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall,
under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower, cause
the upper reservoir embankment to be periodically inspected in
accordance with sound engineering practice in order to determine >
whether there are any deficiencies in the condition of such struc-
tures, or in the quality and adequacy of maintenance or methods of
operations of the same, which may endanger their safety.

Section 3.08. The Borrower shall carry out a study,. based on
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, to determine the most
efficient measures for rationalizing the bulk supply tariffs applic-
able to the electric utilities operating within its territory.

 
ARTICLE IV
Management. and Operations of the Borrower

Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
economic, energy, engineering, environmental, financial and public
utility practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.

Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and
maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound administrative,
economic, energy, engineering, environmental, financial and public
utility practices. | |

Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice. :

Section 4. 04. The Borrower ‘shall at all times promptly take
all action necessary to:

(a) maintain its corporate existence and right to carry on
its operations; and

(b) acquire, maintain, renew and otherwise exercise any and
all rights (including, but without limitation, land rights), powers,
privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in the
conduct of its operations and its carrying out of its obligations
under this Agreement.

Section 4.05. Except in the ordinary course of its business
and without prejudice to its privatization program, the Borrower
shall not, without the Bank’s prior consent, sell, lease, transfer
or otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets which are
required for the efficient conduct of its operations, or the
Carrying out of the Project.

_ Section 4.06. The Borrower shall commence the construction of
transmission lines (additional to the lines mentioned in Part 5 of
the Project) associated with the increase of the capacity of the
pumped storage hydroelectric plant from 500 to 1000 megawatt, only
after the attendant environmental impact assessment and necessary

 
- 9 -

mitigation measures have been approved by the Guarantor’s Office of
Environmental Policy and Planning and reviewed by the Bank.

ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants

Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall, without prejudice to
Section 5.05 of this Agreement, maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accardance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.

(b) The Borrower shall:

(i) have its records, accounts and financial state-
ments (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each Fiscal
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

(ii)  $=furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six (6) months after the
end of each such year:

{A) certified copies of its financial state-
ments for such year as so audited; and

(B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

Section 5.02. (a) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall produce, for each of its Fiscal
Years after its Fiscal Year ending on September 30, 1994, funds from
internal sources equivalent to not less than twenty-five percent
(25%) of the annual average of the Borrower’s capital expenditures
incurred, or expected to be incurred, for that Fiscal Year, the
previous Fiscal Year and the next following Fiscai Year.

 
- 10 -

(b) Before September 30 in each of its Fiscal Years, the
Borrower shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower
and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section in respect
of such year and the next following Fiscal Year, and shall furnish
to the Bank a copy of such review upon its completion.

(c) If any such review shows that the Borrower would not
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower’s
Fiscal Years covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly
take all necessary measures (including, but without limitation,
adjustments of the structure or levels of its electricity tariffs)
in order to meet such requirements.

(da) For the purposes of this Section:

(1) The term "funds from internal sources" means the
difference between: | |

(A) the sum of: net operating income; net non-
operating income, all depreciation and
other non-cash operating charges; and any
reduction in working Capital other than
cash; and |

(B) the sum of: debt service requirements; —
dividends and all remittances to _ the
Guarantor, excluding those taxes or
payments in lieu of taxes which are
deducted from net operating income; other
cash distributions of surplus; increases
in working capital, other than cash and
other cash outflows other than capital
expenditures; and major repairs expendi-
tures not charged against net operating
income. _ .

(ii) The term "net operating income" means’ the
| difference between: oe oO

(A) operating revenues; and

(B) operating expenses, including the cost of
purchased power, the cost of fuel and oil,
operations and maintenance, taxeS or any
payments in lieu of taxes, and provision

 
(iii)

(iv)

(Vv)

(vi)

(vii)

 

for depreciation. Interest and .other
charges on debt shall not be considered to
constitute operating expenses for the
purposes of determining net operating
income.

The term “net non-operating income" means the
difference between:

(A) revenues from all sources other than those
related to electricity operations; and

(B) expenses, including taxes and payments in
lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
of the revenues referred to in  sub-
paragraph (A) above. |

The term “working capital other than cash" means
the difference between current assets excluding
cash and current liabilities at the end of each
Fiscal Year. | |

The term "current assets excluding cash" means
g

ali assets other than cash which could, in the
ordinary course of business, be converted into
cash within twelve (12) months, including
accounts receivable, marketable securities, ©
inventories and pre-paid expenses properly
chargeable to operating expenses within the next
Fiscal Year. | |

The term "current liabilities" means all liabi-
lities which will become due and payable or
could under circumstances then existing be
called for payment within twelve (12) months,
including accounts payable, customer advances,
debt service requirements, taxes and payments in
lieu of taxes, and dividends.

The term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of repayments (including
sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest
and other charges on, debt.
(viil)

(ix)

-~ 12 -

The term. "Capital expenditures" means all
expenditures on account of fixed assets,
including interest charged to construction,
related to operations.

Whenever for the purposes of this Section it

shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in
another currency, such valuation shall be made
on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
exchange at which such other currency is, at the
time of such valuation, obtainable for the
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
exchange acceptable to the Bank.

Section 5.03. (a) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not incur short- or medium- term
debt, including overdraft arrangements and bonds, if by such
incurrence the Borrower’s total outstanding short and medium term
debt would exceed fifteen percent (15%) of all debt of the Borrower,
including its short and medium term debt and the debt proposed to be

incurred.

(b) For the purposes of this Section:

(i)

mers)

(iii)

 

The term "debt" means any debt incurred by the
Borrower.

Debt shall be deemed to be incurred:

(A) under a loan contract or agreement
(including the Loan Agreement) or other
instrument providing for such debt; and

(B) under a guarantee agreement, on the date
the agreement providing for such guarantee
is entered into, and incurrence of debt
shall include the assumption and guarantee
of debt and any renewal, extension or
modification of the terms of the debt or
of the assumption or guarantee thereof.

The term "short and medium term debt" means debt
which on issue matures by its terms within five .
years. | |
- 13 <-

(iv) Whenever in connection with this Section it
shall be necessary to value in terms of Baht
debt payable in foreign currency, such valuation
shall be made at the prevailing lawful rate of
exchange at which such foreign currency is, at
the time of such valuation, obtainable by the
Borrower for the purposes of servicirg such
debt, or if such currency is not obtainable, at
the rate of exchange reasonably determined by
the Bank.

Section 5.04. (a) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not incur any debt, if after the
incurrence of such debt the ratio of debt to equity shall be greater
than sixty (60) to forty (40).

(b) For purposes of this Section:

(i) The term "debt" shall have the same meaning as
in Section 5.03 (b) (i) of this Agreement.

(ii) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred in the same
manner as provided in Section 5.03 (b) (ii) of
this Agreement.

(iii) The term "equity" means the sum of the total
unimpaired paid-up capital, retained earnings
and reserves of the Borrower not allocated to
cover specific liabilities.

(iv) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in
another currency, such valuation shall be made
on the same basis as provided in Section 5.03
(b) (v) of this Agreement.

 
- 14 -

Section 5.05. The Borrower shall, until completion of the
Project, conduct its lignite mining activities as separate profit
generating operations, and maintain separate accounts and financial
statements associated therewith, and shall at all times establish
the transfer price of lignite produced and used on the basis of
sound economic and financial criteria based on a methodology and
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank

Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

(a) The Act shal}. have been amended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the
Borrower or the Guarantor to perform any of their respective
obligations under this Agreement or the Guarantee Agreement.

(b) - fhe Guarantor or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for:

(i) © the dissolution of the Borrower; or

(ii) the suspension of any of the _ Borrower’s
operations, so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under this Agreement.

(c) The OECF Loan Agreement shall have failed to become
effective by September 30, 1995, or such later date as the Bank may
agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this sub-section
shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Bank that adequate funds for the Project will be available to
the Borrower from other sources and on terms consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement. |

(a) (i) Subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph:

(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any loan (including the OECF
Loan) or grant made te the Borrower for
the financing of the Project, or any part
thereof, shall have been’ suspended,

 
- 15 -

cancelled or terminated in whole or in
part, pursuant to the terms thereof; or

(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.

(ii) Sub~paragraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
| apply if the Borrower establishes to the satis-
faction of the Bank that: a |

(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination
or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of
its obligations under the agreement
providing therefor; and

(B) adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent
with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.

Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General .
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

(a) Any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and |

(b) The event specified in subparagraph (d@} (i) (B) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso
of sub-paragraph (d) (ii) of that Section. .

ARTICLE VITI

Effective Date; Termination

Section 7.01. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

 
- 16 -<-
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 8.01. The Governor ‘of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the ‘purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.

Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Bank:

International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development

1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address: | Telex:
INTBAFRAD ---: 248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C. 82987 (FTCC),

64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT).

For the Borrower:

The Governor
Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
Nonthaburi 11000

Thailand
Cable address: | | Telex:
EGAT 82711 EGAT TH

Nonthaburi | _ 72348 EGAT TH
THAILAND. , | |

 
- 17 iso

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

1 Luansel ChasBhay,

Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific

ELECTRICITY GENERATING
AUTHORITY OF THAILAND

( a naspe AS

Authorized Representative

 
- 18 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of

expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

Amount of the

Loan Allocated | % of
(Expressed in | Expenditures
Category : Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) Civil works «96, 000, 000 50%
(2) Goods | 750,000 100% of foreign
expenditures,

100% of local
.expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and
50% of local ex-
penditures for other
items procured

locally
(3) Consultants’ | 250,000 100%
services |
(4) Unallocated 3,000,000
TOTAL | 100,000,000
2. For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) The term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in

the currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and |

(b) The term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

 
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$250,000 may be made in respect of Category 3 on account of payments
made for expenditures before that date but after August 4, 19594.

 
- 20 =-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project

The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower
construct a pumped storage hydroelectric plant, within the Sie Kiew
and Pak Chong districts of the Guarantor’s Nakhon Ratchasima
province, for generating electricity during peak demand periods, so
as to, inter alia, help optimize the Borrower’s investments and help
it meet peak power demand from 1998 onwards at least cost.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to. achieve such objectives:

1. Construction of an underground power house for four (4)
reversible Francis-type generation units, each with an output of 250
MW at a rated net head of 357 m, for a total capacity of about one
thousand (1000) megawatt ("MW") .

2. Construction of an upper water reservoir on a nearby plateau
with a rectangular pond with a surface area of 0.34 sq km and a
volume of 9.9 million cubic meters, bounded by a rockfill embankment
(with a maximum height of 50 m and a volume of 5.4 million cubic
meters) and lined with an asphaltic membrane.

3. Construction of two (2) inlet tunnels connecting the upper
reservoir to the power house.

4. Construction of two (2) steel-lined penstock tunnels of 6 m
diameter and 651 m length, connecting the intake structure to the
power house. |

5. Construction of about 2 x 230 kv double circuit power
transmission lines totalling a length of fifteen kilometers (15.
kms).

6. Construction of a Switchyard and control buildings.

7. Provision of necessary goods, equipment and materials
necessary in respect of the foregoing. | |

8. Provision of technical assistance services to:

(a) strengthen the Borrower's capabilities for environmental
management; and

 
- 21 -

(b) assist in carrying out a study on the rationalization of
bulk supply tariffs. | |

The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.

 
-~ 22 =<
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule

| . Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due | : (expressed _in dollars)*

On each January 15 and July 1S

beginning January 15, 2001
through January 15, 2012 4,165,000

 

and on July 15, 2012 4,205,000

* The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

 
- 23 -
Premiums on Prepayment

Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the

_ premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan

to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

Time of Prepayment | : Premium

The interest rate (ex~
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the Loan on the day of
prepayment multiplied by:

Not more than three years a | 0.18
before maturity | |

‘More than three years but 0.35
not more than six years |
before maturity

More than six years but | 0.65
not more than eleven years oe
before maturity |

More than eleven years but not | | 0.88.
more than fifteen years |
before maturity |

More than fifteen years before | | 1.00
maturity :

 
-~ 24 os
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement of Works

Section I. Procurement of Works

Part A: International Competitive Bidding
1. Works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance

with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the "Guidelines"), and in
accordance with the following procedures:

(a) When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to and in
accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines,
by the minimum amount of time required to complete the evaluation,
obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract.
The bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the
bidding documents or the request for extension shall provide for
appropriate adjustment of bid price to reflect changes in the cost
of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. Such an
increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation. With respect to each contract made subject to the Bank’s
prior review in accordance with the provisions of Part C.1 of this
Section, the Bank’s prior approval will be required for:

(1) +x,®©a first extension of the bia validity period, if
the period of extension exceeds sixty (60) days;
and | . |

(ii) any subsequent extension of the bid validity
period.

(b) Inthe procurement of works in accordance with this Part

A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank
shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project.
Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the
Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.

 
- 25 -

 

Part Bs Other Procurement Procedures

1. Limited International Bidding and International Shopping.

Goods shall be procured under Contracts awarded either:

(a) through limited international bidding procedures on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of bids obtained from at least
three (3) qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in
accordance with procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the
Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof);
or ! oo

(b) on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained
from at least three (3) suppliers from at least two (2) countries
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank. |

Part Cs: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

 

1. Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts: |

(a) With respect to each contract, estimated to cost the
equivalent of $2,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the.
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

2. The figure of fifteen percent (15%) is hereby specified for
| purposes of paragraph 4 or Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

1. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part (8) of
the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
Shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the.
"Consultant Guidelines"). a |

 
- 26 -

2. For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ
such consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract
for consultants’ services issued by the Bank, with such
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank,
the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.

 
- 27 oa

SCHEDULE 5

Implementation Program

| The following key milestone dates have been agreed between the
Bank and the Borrower for the implementation of the Project. The
Borrower shall inform the Bank not less than 2 months prior to these
dates if it expects that any of these dates cannot be met, giving

full reasons thereof.

Activity
Invite bids for the main civil works
Place letter of intent for Civil works

Complete civil works

Invite bids for main electro-mechanical

equipment

Place letter of intent for main
electro-mechanical equipment |

Complete installation of electro-
mechanical equipment

Invite bids for the transmission lines

Place letter of intent for the
transmission lines

Complete transmission lines
Invite bids for hydraulic equipment

Place letter of intent for
hydraulic equipment

Complete installation of
hydraulic equipment

Latest letion Date

April 30, 1995
September 30, 1995

November 30, 1999.
October 30, 1995

June 30, 1996

February 29, 2000

May 31, 1996

August 31, 1996.

May 30, 1999

August 31, 1996
January 31, 1997

November 30, 1999

 
Activity
Commission Unit 1
Commission Unit 2:

Complete the buik supply
tariff study

28

La mpletion Date
February 29, 2000

May 31, 2000

June 30, 1996

 
___ INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

CERTIFICATE

Thereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank

for Reconstruction and Development.

CX Ge

~ FOR SECRETARY

 
