Public Disclosure Authorized

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 3809 MAS

MMA Loan Agreement

(Port Development and Environment Protection Project)

Public Disclosure Authorized

between |

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION ,
AND DEVELOPMENT

and

MAURITIUS MARINE AUTHORITY

Dated Octo Snr 8 1995

 

 

 
MMA LOAN NUMBER 3909 MAS

MMA LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT, dated 40 cboCer $ , 1995, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank) and MAURITIUS MARINE AUTHORITY (the Borrower).

WHEREAS: (A) The Bank has received a statement dated, April 28, 1995, from
the Guarantor describing a program of action (the Program), objectives and policies
designed to achieve reform in the Guarantor’s ports sub-sector and declaring the
Guarantor’s and Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program;

(B) Republic of Mauritius (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having been
satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

(C) by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith
between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the —
obligations of the Borrower in respect of the Loan; .

(D) _ the Guarantor has also requested the Bank to provide assistance towards
the financing of Part B of the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith
between the Guarantor and the Bank (the GOM Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing
to provide such as:‘stance in an aggregate principal amount equal to seven million one

hundred thousand dollars ($7,100,000) (the GOM Loan);

(E) The Guarantor has obtained from the Duchy of Luxembourg a grant in
- an amount equivalent to one million dollars ($1,000,000) to assist in financing Part B of
the Project; . |

(F) the Borrower intends to contract from the Accelerated Cofinancing
Facility of the Japanese Export-Import Bank (JEXIM), a loan (the JEXIM Loan) in an
amount equivalent to twenty-three million four hundred thousand dollars ($23,400,000)
to assist in financing Part A of the Project on terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the JEXIM Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
JEXIM;
-2-

(G) the Borrower intends to contract from European Investment Bank (EIB),
a ican (the EIB Loan) in an amount equivalent to nineteen million seven hundred ©
thousand dollars ($19,700,000) to assist in financing Part A of the Project on the terms —
and conditions set forth in an agreement (the EIB Loan Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and EIB; and |

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement, the MMA Guarantee Agreement, the GOM Loan Agreement, and the GOM
Project Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
“ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
_ Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. |

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective |
meanings therein set forth and the follswing additional terms have the following

meanings:

(a) “CHC” means the Cargo Handling Corporation Limited, a company
incorporated under the laws of the Guarantor;

(b) “MFA” means the Mauritius Freeport Authority, established pursuant to
_ the Mauritius Freeport Act of 1992, of the laws of the Guarantor;

| (c) “MMA” means the Mauritius Marine Authority, established pursuant to
- the Guarantor’s Ports Act of 1975, of the laws of the Guarantor, as amended to date; |

(d) “py” means the Borrower’s fiscal year beginning July 1] each year and
ending on June 30 the following year;

(e) “Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement; and .
3.

| (f) “Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance
granted by the Bank to the Guarantor pursuant to a letter, dated May 17, 1993, from the
Bank.

ARTICLE Ii
The Loan

| Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions
set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to twenty-three million
four hundred thousand dollars (823, 400,000).

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. |

(b) The Borrower may, for the purposes of Part A of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and
- conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off,
- seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
~ made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule > to this Agreement.

(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to —
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorizec amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be
cancelled.

~ Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001, or such later date as"
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor |
of such later date.

| Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time. |

Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal
to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.

 
_4.

(b) For the purposes of this Section:

(i) “Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period,
each period from and including an interest Payment Date to, but
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.

(ii) “Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06
of this Agreement.

(iii) “LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage
per annum. |

(iv) | “LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one
| half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted
- average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the
London interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-
month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings ©
or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency
loans or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as
reasonably determined byt the Bank and expressed as a a percentage

per annum. |

©) The Bank shall | notify the Guarantor and Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate
— and LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.

(d) ~~ ~Wheniever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank determines that
it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section,
the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the
new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the
Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said
modification shafl not apply to the Loan.

 
-5-

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable January 15 and July 15 in
each year.

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE fil
Executien of the Project |

Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Part
A of the Project with due diligence end efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and port management practices, and shall provide, promptly as
‘needed, the funds. facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the
goods, works and consultants’ services required for Part A of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule
4 to this Agreement.

Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the General
Conditions, the Borrower shall: |

(a) prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, for the future operation of the Project,

| (b) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the
Borrower on said plan; and |

— (c) thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Bank's comments thereon.

Section 3.04. The Borrower shall not later than December 31, 1996: (a) enter
into a concession contract, acceptable to the Bank, with CHC for the use of the existing
- terminal at the Port; and (b) lease or sell its port handing | equipment to CHC, under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.

 
-6-—

Section 3.05. The Borrower shall maintain a Technical Committee, with
representation of the Borrower and CHC, to examine and recommend the detailed steps
required to reach agreement on the terms and conditions of the concession contract
referred to in Section 3.04 (a) above.

Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (a) by February 28, 1997, prepare a draft
concession contract, acceptable to the Bank, defining the terms of the operational
arrangements for the port operator to be contracted to operate the new container terminal
to be constructed under Part A.4 of the Project; and (b) by December 31, 1997, select an
operator, on the basis of procedures, and on terms and conditions, acceptable to the
Bank, to operate said container terminal. .

| Section 3.07. The Borrower shall carry out Part A of the Project in accordance |
with quantitative targets to measure progress in achieving efficiency, acceptable to the
Bank.

ARTICLE IV
Manageinent and Operations of the Borrower

Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs
in accordance with sound administrative, financial and port management practices and
appropriate environmental standards, under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers. .

Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain its plants,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed,
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound
engineering, financial and port management practices.

Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to tiie Bank for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. |

ARTICLE V

Financial Covenants

Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices: its operations and financial
condition.

 
_(b) ‘The Borrower shail:

(i)

Gi,

(iii)

have its records, accounts and finaricial statements (balance |
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) and the records and accounts for the Special
Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later

than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified

copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited, and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

@

— (i)

(iii)
(iv)

maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; | |

retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the

audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
the Loan Account or payment out of the Special! Account was

made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and

other documents) evidencing such expenditures;

enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and

ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals. | .

 
-8-

Section 5.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
earn, for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on June 30, 2000, an annual
return of not less than 2% of the average current net value of the Borrower's fixed assets ©
in operation. |

| (b) Before June 30 in each of its fiscal years, the Borrower shall, on the
basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether
it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the
~ next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon
its completion. |

(c) ‘If any such review shows that the Borrower would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower's fiscal years covered by such
review, the Borrower shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, without
limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its rates) in order to meet such
requirements. ,

— (d) For the purposes of this Section:

(i) | The annual return shall be calculated by dividing the Borrower's
net operating income for the fiscal year in question by one-half
of the sum of the current net value of the Borrower's fixed assets
in operation at the beginning and at the end of that fiscal year.

(ii) The term "net operating income" means total operating revenues
less total operating expenses. | |

(iii) | The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all
- sources related to operations.

(iv) The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related

| to operations, including administration, adequate maintenance,

taxes, payments in lieu of taxes, interest and other charges on

debt, and provision for depreciation on a straight-line basis at a _

rate of not less than 4% per annum of the average current gross

- value of the Borrower's fixed assets in n operation, or other basis
acceptable to the Bank.

oe,
f
ae

 
-9-

(v) The average current gross value of the Borrower's fixed assets in
| operation shall be calculated as one half of the sum of the gross
value of the Borrower's fixed assets in operation at the
beginning and at the end of the fiscal year, as valued from time
to time in accordance with sound and consistently maintained
methods of valuation satisfactory to the Bank.

(vi) The term "current net value of the Borrower's fixed assets in
operation" means the gross value of the Borrower's fixed assets
in operation less the amount of accumulated depreciation, as
valued from time to time in accordance with sound and
consistently maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to the
Bank. }

Section 5.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
maintain, for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on June 30, 1999, a ratio
of total operating expenses to total operating revenues not higher than 40%.

(b) Before June 30 in each of its fiscal years, the Borrower shall, o cn the
basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether
‘it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such yexr and the
next following fiscai year, and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon |
its completion.

(c) If any such review shows that the Borrower would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower's fiscal years covered by such
review, the Borrower shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, without
limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its rates) in order to meet such
requirements.

(d) For the purposes of this Section;

(1) The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related
to operations, including administration, adequate maintenance,
ta::es and payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding interest and
other charges on debt, provision for depreciation and other non-
cash items.

- (ii) ‘The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all
sources related to operations, but excluding exceptional gains
and investment income. | |

 
-10-

Section 5.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not incur any debt, if after the incurrence of such debt the ratio of debt to equity shall be
greater than 1.5 to 1.

(b) For purposes of this Section:

(i) The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Borrower
maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on which
itis originally incurred. |

(11) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract
or agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for
the modification of its terms of payment, on the date, and to the
extent, the amount of such debt has become outstanding
pursuant to such contract, agreement or instrument; and (B)
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee has been entered into but only to
the extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding.

(iii) | The term "equity" means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-
up capital, retained earnings and reserves of the Borrower not
allocated to cover specific liabilities.

(iv) | Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary
to value, in terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable
in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other ©
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate,

_ on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank. _

_ ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank |

Section 6. 01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 @) of the General Conditions, the
following additional events are specified:

(a) a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program,
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out;

 
-ll-

(b) the Ports Act shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform
_ any of its obligations under the Loan Agreement ;

(c) the Guarantor or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of tie Borrower or for the suspension
of its operations;

(d) the GOM Loan Agreement shall have failed to become effective by
December 31, 1995, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that
the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement;

(e) the EIB or other loan agreemient shall have failed to become effective by
December 31, 1996, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that
the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement; and

(f) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: (A) the right of
the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the JEXIM Loan or
other loan made to the Borrower for financing of Part A of the
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the Agreement
concerned; or (B) such loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.

(it) subparagraph (1) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring was
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement, and (B) adequate funds for
the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
-12-

Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions the
following additional events are specified:

(a) the events specified in paragraphs (b) and ©, of Section 6.01 of this
Agreement shall occur; and

(b) the event specified in paragraph (f) of Section 6.C1 of the Agreement
shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (f) (11) of that Section.

| _ ARTICLE Vil
Effective Date; Termination |

Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions, namely that the Bank has been notified that all conditions precedent
to the initial disbursement of the JEXIM Loan Agreement, other than those related to the
effectiveness of this Agreement have been fulfilled. |

Section 7.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

ARTICLE Vil
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses —
Section 8.01. The Director General of the Borrower is designated as

representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.

Section 8.02. The following addresses are ‘Specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:

 
-13-

For the Bank:

International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W. |
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address: Telex:

INTBAFRAD | 248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C. 82987 (FTCC)
| | 64145 (WUD) or
197688 (TRT)

For the Borrower:
| Mauritius Marine Authority
Port Administration Building
Mer Rouge

Port Louis, Mauritius

Telex:

4238
Mauport 1W

 
-14-

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written. |

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

py Si Edutard VU. K.

Regional Vice President, Africa

‘MAURITIUS MARINE AUTHORITY

py ‘s/ ff y Haglan

Authorized Representative

 
1. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the

—.15-

SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

(1)

(2)

GQ)

Civil works
for Part A
ofthe
Project

Equipment and

spare parts for

Part A of
the Project

Consultants’

~ services for

Part A of

_ the Project

~ Amount of the

Loan Allocated
(Expressed in
Dollar

Equivalent)
18,000,000

1,400,000

900,000 —

% of
Expenditures
to be
Financed

50% of foreign
expenditures

50% of foreign
expenditures

20% of local
expenditures for
services of
consultants
domiciled within
the territory of
the Guarantor
and 50% of
foreign
expenditures for
services of

other consultants
2 16-

Amount of the

Loan Allocated _ % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
| Dollar to be
ate | Equivalent) Financed
(4) Training | 800,000 50. of foreign
for Part A - @xpenditures and
of the a | 20% of local
Project | | expenditures
(5) Refunding of 500,000 Amount due
Project Preparation | pursuant to
Advance a Section 2.02 (c)
of this Agreement
(6) Unallocated  —_—=_1, 800,000
TOTAL 23,400,000
2. For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of

any country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor;

(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the
Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor.

3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.

4. The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods under contracts not
exceeding $250,000 equivalent, works under contracts not exceeding $300,000
equivalent and services under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent for firms and
$50,000 equivalent for individuals, under a terms and conditions as the Bank shall —
specify by notice to the Borrower.
-1|7-

SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project

The objective of the Project is to support the Guarantor’ s policy for sustainable
long-term growth by: (i) increasing the efficiency and competitiveness of port services;
and (ii) expanding and modernizing facilities to attract investors and stimulate foreign
trade and transshipment operations in an environmentally sound manner.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:

Part A: Port Deveiopment
1. Strengthening MMA’s mandate as the landlord of the Port Louis port, with sole

legal authority over standards, land use, and port operations under concession
arrangements, through the provision of technical advisory services and training.

2. Improvement of management and operations of MMA and CHC respectively,
through the implementation of MMA’s and CHC’s corporate plans respectively, aimed
at improving quality of services and operations as well as, the installation of a
management information system.

3. Construction of a new three-berth container and oil terminal, a new passenger
terminal building and an internal road network 1 in the new port area.

4, Acquisition of two gantry cranes to > mechanize container ‘handling, fire fighting
equipment and computer hardware and software.

5. Relocation of oil and gas handling and unloading facilities in the port area.
PartB: —* Freeport Development
Az Carrying out a study on the prospects for the liberalization of the regime

governing air transport licensing in Mauritius.

2. Implementation by MFA of a targeted trade development strategy, including

_ improvement of MFA’s management and operations, strengthening MFA’s organization

- and management information systems, and rationalization of marketing all in accordance
with MFA’s corporate plan.

 
- 18 -

3. Site preparation on fifteen hectares of land at Mer Rouge, including construction
of roads and office and customs buildings, and the provisions of services.

Part C: Marine Environmental Protection

1. Carrying out a study to define the requirements and design facilities for the

collection and disposal of oily wastes from the port area and ships, draft regulations
required to enforce safety of port operations and control of vessels’ seaworthiness.

2. Construction of facilities and the acquisition of equipment for the collection and
pre-treatment of oily wastes disposed of by ships.

3. Establishment of regulations to enforce safety in port operations, port handling
of hazardous cargo and to control vessels’ seaworthiness.

4. Provision of training to fight oil spills and control vessels’ seaworthiness.

a

‘The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.

 
-19-

SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
_ (Expressed in
dollars)*

Date Payment Due
On each January 15 and July 15 |

beginning January 15, 2001

through January 15, 2010 —- 1,170,000 _
and onJuly 15,2010 ~ 1,170,000
* The figures i in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except as

provided in Section 4. 04 (d) of the General Conditions.

 
20 -

SCHEDULE 4

Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I. Procurement of and W.
Part A: | General

Goods and Works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section
I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of this Section, as
applicable. | | | os

Part B: | International Competitive Bidding

1 Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be

procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.

2. The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.

(2) Prequalification

- Bidders for works shall be prequalitied in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.

(b) Preference for domestically manufactured goods

The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.

Part C: - Other Procurement Procedures

1]. National Competitive Bidding

Works estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent or less per contract and $1,300,000
equivalent or less in the aggregate,-may be procured under contracts awarded in |
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. |

 
-21-
Part E: Review e f re
1. Procurement Planning

Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.

2. Prior Review

With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of
$300,000 or more, and for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
_ apply.

3. Post Review

With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

Section II. Employment of Consultants |

1. | Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued
by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other
standard forms acceptzble to the Bank shall be used. |

2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts,
shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost
less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the employment of individual
consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said
exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical
nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the —

 
-22-

employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or |
above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants i
raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.

 
- 23 -

SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
i. For the purposes of this Schedule: |

(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the —
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule | to this Agreement; and |

(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
- the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed
the equivalent of $5, 000, 000.

2. Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. —

3. After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account |
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent |
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:

| (a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, ‘the Borrower shall

furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested. |

(b) (i) ‘For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shali
| furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.

 
24 -

(11) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall

furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required

pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or

payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the

basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the

Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the

Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have

requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and

other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for
eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under —
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by said documents and other evidence. | |

4. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the |
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.

5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: |

(a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a)
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or

-(b) if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit |
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the.
audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account,

(c) if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the
Loan Account pursuant t to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or

(d) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to Part A of the
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

 
~25-

Thereafter, withdrawal fram the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for Part A of the Project shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been
_ Satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Speciai Account as of the date

of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. |

6. (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund,
as the case may be. |

(b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to

the Bank such outstanding amount.

(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

(d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
INTERNATIONAL BANK |
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

CERTIFICATE

[ hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank

for Reconstruction and Development.

SAW Ge

¢ “
FOR SECRETARY

 
