‘Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

He gy.

ry ate arr .
me tny % Em

‘ . : DA?
‘er S ; a . ¥y -
, Ss. te. i
» gees
© 3 FY: co
yo
oer
OP awe any i
SO + ne ate,
- ef fe Fe 2
1S OR ee ‘ te . ¥
RE soe © eg
OR ape ee
wx &

FES, bee z
ERIS eT an, 3
° PR te 25k

WON eg _

LOAN NUMBER 3867 KZ

Loan Agreement

(Financial and Enterprises Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT |

Dated July A » 1995

 

 
LOAN NUMBER 3867 KZ
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT, dated ) uly Ai | , 1995, between
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN (the aD and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) -

WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Proj ects |

-(B) Parts B.2, B.3, B.4 and C(d) of the Project will be
carried out by the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan (NBK)
with the Borrower’s assistanze and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to NBK the proceeds of the Loan as
provided in this Agreement; and |

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and NBK;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Gereral Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

(a). The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

(b) In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (1) and a new sub-paragrazth (k) is added to read:

"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
the Bank’s Articles of Agreement." | |

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble

 
~2-

to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

(a) “Banking Development Project" means a project to
finance, pursuant to a Subsidiary Financing Agreement, the
restructuring, modernization and strengthening of operational and
financial capabilities of the Qualified Bank utilizing the proceeds
of the Banking Development Sub-loan, selected in accordance with the
procedures and accreditation criteria set forth in Parts A and B of
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.

(b) "Banking Development Sub-loan" means a foreign currency
sub-loan made or proposed to be made by NBK, pursuant to a
Subsidiary Financing Agreement, out of the proceeds of the Loan to
a Qualified Bank for a Banking Development Project.

(c) "MOE" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy.
(d) "MOF" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance.

(e) "NBK" means the National Bank of the Republic of
Kazakhstan, the Borrower’s central bank established and operating
pursuant to the Borrower’s Law on the National Bank ce... the Republic
of Kazakhstan, dated April 13, 1993, as the same may be amended from
time to time. ,

(£) "NBK Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and NBK pursuant to Section
3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the NBK Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. | |

(g) “Qualified Banks" means two medium and two large size
banking institutions registered and accredited in the territory of
the Borrower and selected in accordance with the procedures and
accreditation criteria set forth in Parts A and B of Schedule 1 to
the Project Agreement to carry out the Banking Development Project.

| (h) "PIUs" means the project implementation units
established and maintained by the Borrower within MOF, MOE, and NBK
and referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

 
(i) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and NBK of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
- supplemental to the Project Agreement.

(j) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to
an exchange of letters dated April 17, 1995 and May 16, 1995
between the Borrower and the Bank. a

(k) - “RAU" means the restructuring advisory unit established
and maintained by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of ©
this Agreement.

(1) "Rehabilitation Trust" means the debt resolution
institution established and maintained by the Borrower pursuant to
Presidential Decree No. 2154, dated March 29, (1995.

(m) "SCSP" means the Borrower’s State Committee for State
Property or any successor thereto.

(n) "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

(0) "Subsidiary Financing Agreement" means any agreement
between NBK and a Qualified Bank, referred to in Schedule 1 to the
Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
concerning the financing of Banking Development Project by NBK, and
such term includes all schedules to such Subsidiary Financing
Agreement. |

ARTICLE II
The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of sixty two million dollars ($62,000,000), being the sum
of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal. |
-4-

vection 2.02. fa) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods ard
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

(db) The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in Dollars three special deposit accounts in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts |
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to.
this Agreement.

| (c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on

behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance
of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall
thereupon be cancelled. :

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1998 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment |
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the

principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

(c) For the purposes of this Section:

(i) "Interest Period" means a six-month period
ending on the date immediately preceding each
date specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
which this Agreement is signed.

(ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,

| as reasonably determined by the Bank and
expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

(iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.

(d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
applicable during such Interest Period."

"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of
each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
- & —.|

Cost of Qualified Borrowings. determined in respect of
such Quarter. "

"(e) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period |
commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
a calendar year."

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

Section 2.08. NBK is designated as representative of the
Borrower in respect of Parts B.2, B.3, B.4 and C of the Project for
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article
V of the General Conditions. | |

ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end: | |

(i) shall carry out Parts A, B.1l and C(a), (b) and

| (ec) of the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative and financial practices and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources
required for such Parts of the Project; and

(ii) without limitation or restriction upon any of —
its other obligations under the Loan Agreement,
the Borrower shall cause NBK to perform all
-NBK’s obligations set forth in the Project
Agreement, shall take or cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable NBK to
-7-

perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.

(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:

(i) carry out Parts A, B.1l and C(a), (b) and (c) of
the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement; and |

(ii) establish and maintain the RAU, as_= an
independent unit with its own budget, in a
manner and with staffing satisfactory to the
Bank and appropriate for the carrying out Part
A.2 of the Project.

(c) The Borrower shall relend the equivalent of the proceeds
of the Loan allocated to Categories (1) (b) and (c), (2) (¢) and
(e), and (3) (c) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, to NBK under a subsidiary loan agreement (NBK
Subsidiary Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower
and NBK, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved
| by the Bank and which shall include the terms and conditions
governing, inter alia:

(i) the carrying out by NBK of Parts B.2, B.3, B.4.

| and C(d) of the Project with diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, and banking practices
and the applicable provisions of the Project
Agreement; | |

(ii) the utilization of funds and procurement of
goods and consultants’ services required for
Parts B.2, B.3, B.4 and C(d) of the Project;

(iii) the maintenance of records and accounts adequate
| to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the resources and expenditures related
to the procurement of goods and consultants’

services required for Parts B.2, B.3, B.4 and

 
- 8 -

C(d) of the Project and the auditing of such
records and accounts in accordance with
appropriate auditing standards;

(iv) assumption of foreign exchange risk;

(v) principal amount to be lent by the Borrower to
NBK, the currency in which such a loan is to be
made, the interest rate and other payments to be
made by NBK to the Borrower, and maturity and
grace periods applicable to such a loan; and

(vi) the accreditation criteria pursuant to which NBK
 ghall select the Qualified Banks and the terms
and conditions pursuant to which NBK shall make >
the Banking Development Sub-loans to the
Qualified Banks under the Subsidiary Financing»
Agreements.

(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the NBK
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the NBK Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for
Parts A, B.l and C(a), (b), and (c) of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of —
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:

(a) prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6)
‘months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed
for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, for
the future operation of the Project; |

(b) afford the Bank a ‘reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan; and
~9-

(c) thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into
account the Bank’s comments thereon.

Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition (or rights related to land), respectively) in
respect of Parts B.2, B.3, B.4 and C(d) of the Project shall be
carried out by NBK pursuant to Section 2. 03 of the Project
Agreement. |

ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of Parts A, B.1 and C(a), (b) and (c) of the
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.

(b) The Borrower shall:

{i) have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those
for the Special Accounts for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors satisfactory to the Bank;

(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
| any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year, the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information

| - concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.
- 10 -

(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall: | | |

(1)

(ii).

(iii)

(iv)

Section 5.01.

maintain or cause to be maintained, in

accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,

records and accounts reflecting such
expenditures; |

retain, until at least one year after the Bank
has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan

Account or payment out of the Special Accounts

was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;

enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
such records; and

ensure ‘that such records and accounts are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion
by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank

Pursuant to Section 6.02 | (1) of the | General

Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

(a) NBK shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.

(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that NBK will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
-~ ll -

(c) The Borrower’s Law on the National Bank of the Republic
of Kazakhstan shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of NBK to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement. | | | .

(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of NBK or for the suspension of its operations.

Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified: |

(a) . the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty:
(60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to
the Borrower and NBK; and

— (b) any event specified in paragraphs (e) or Cd) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination

Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the NBK Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and NBK.

Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank: |

(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by NBK, and is legally binding upon NBK in accordance with
its terms; and

(b) that the NBK Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and NBK and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and NBK in accordance with its terms.

 
-~ 12 -

| Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions. :

Section 7. 02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
97 Ablai-Khan Av.

Almaty, 480091
Republic of Kazakhstan ~

Telex:
251 245 FILIN
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W. |
Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address: | Telex:

INTBAFRAD  —> | 248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C. 82987 (FTCC)

64145 (WUL) or
197688 (TRT)
-13-

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN

By | 5 | Toukvoutai Souleimenov

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By Is| Yukon Huang
Arcane) Regional Vice President

Europe and Central Asia
l.

amounts

- 14 -

- SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

_ The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the

of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of

expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

(1)

(2)

Category

Goods for:

(a) Parts A.2 and
A.3 of the
Project.

(b) Parts B.4 and

C(d) of the
Project

(c) Part B.2 of
the Project

Consultants’
services for:

(a) Part A.l of
the Project

(b) Parts A.2 and
| A.3 of the
Project

(c) Parts B.4 and
| C(d) of the
Project

Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in

Dollar Equivalent)
)

)
120,000)

wee eee ee

22,850,000)
)
)

| )
8,000,000)
| )

4,925,000

10,035,000

1,545,000

% of
Expenditures
to be Financed

100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures,
(ex-factory
cost) and 752%
of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally

100%

100%

1002
(3)

(4)

(5)

Category

(d) Part B.1l of
the Project

(e) Part B.2 of
the Project

(£) Parts C(a), (b)
and (c) of the
Project

Training for:

(a) Part A.l of
the Project

(b) Parts A.2 and
| A.3 of the
Project |

(c) Part B.3 of
| the Project

Refunding of
Project
Preparation

Advance

Unallocated

TOTAL

- 15 —

Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in

Dollar Equivalent)
1,850,000
4,000,000

546,000

78,000

1,102,000

999,000

1,500,000

4,450,000

62,000,000

£ of
Expenditures
to be Financed

100%
100%

10024

100%

100%

1002

Amounts due

pursuant to
Section 2.02 (c)
of this Agreement
~ 16 -

2. For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in >
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for:

(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $6,200,000,
may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) of this
Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that
date but after June 30, 1994; |

| (b) expenditures in respect of Category (2) (d) of this
Schedule, unless: (i) the Rehabilitation Trust has been duly
established in accordance with Presidential Decree No. 2154, dated
March 29, 1995 and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii)
the Borrower has adopted legal and regulatory enactments,
satisfactory to the Bank, governing out-of-court settlement of debt
claims and necessary for the successful functioning of the
Rehabilitation Trust; and | | |

(c) expenditures in respect of Categories (1) (c) and (2)
(e) of this Schedule, unless the Banking Development Project
concerned has been approved in accordance with the procedures,
accreditation criteria and on terms and conditions set forth in
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement. |

Ae The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for
goods and services under contracts not exceeding $10,000 equivalent,
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice
to the Borrower. :
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project

The objectives of the Project are to facilitate the enterprise
sector reform, improve banking services, and strengthen the
regulatory framework and institutional capabilities of the
Borrower’s financial system. | . |

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A: Enterprise Sector Reform
l. Privatization Assistance

Implementation of the Borrower’s privatization program through
the provision of consulting services and training.

2. Restructuring Advisory Unit

Restructuring, privatization and liquidation assistance to
enterprises located within the territory of the Borrower through the
provision of consulting services, training and goods to the RAU.

3. Study Tour Program for Enterprise Managers

Strengthening of the management, financial, and marketing
capabilities of managers of enterprises located within the territory
of the Borrower through the provision of training and consulting
services. |

Part B: : Financial Sector Reform
iL. Rehabilitation Trust

Assistance in the management, restructuring and liquidation of
indebted enterprises located within the territory of the Borrower
through the provision of consulting services, training and goods for
the operation of the Rehabilitation Trust. .
- 18 -

2. Commercial Banking Develop ment
Development and strengthening of the commercial banking sector

through the provision of goods and consulting services under Banking
Development Projects.

3. Institution Building for On-Site Bank Supervision

Strengthening of the on-site bank supervision capabilities « of
NBK through the provision of training.

4. Long-Term Payment System

Development of an effective and efficient payment system
through the provision of goods, consulting services and training.

Part C: Project Implementation Assistance
Strengthening of the Borrower’s Project implementation |
capabilities through the provision of consulting services, training,

and goods to: (a) MOF; (b) SCSP; (c) MOE; and (d) NBK.

* * *

The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1998.
- 19 -

SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule

| | Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due (expressed in dollars)*

On each January 15 and July 15

beginning January 15, 2001 |
through January 15, 2012 2,585,000

And on July 15, 2012 | a 2,545,000

%

The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03. |
- 20 -

Premiums on Prepayment

Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the.
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below: |

Time of Prepayment Premium

The interest rate (expressed
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on
the day of prepayment
multiplied by:

Not more than three years ae 0.18
before maturity

More than three years but : 0.35
not more than six years .
before maturity

More than six years but _ . | 0.65
not more than 11 years
before maturity

More than 11 years but not | | 0.88
more than 15 years |
before maturity _

More than 15 years before | 1.00
maturity
~ 2] -

SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants’ Services|

Section I. Procurement of Goods

Part A: International Competitive Bidding
l. Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured

under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines), and in accordance with the following
additional procedures:

(a) When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to and in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines,
by the minimum amount of time required to complete the evaluation,
obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract.
The bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the
bidding documents or the request for extension shall provide for
appropriate adjustment of the bid price to reflect changes in the
cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. Such
an increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the
bid evaluation. With respect to each contract made subject to the
Bank’s prior review in accordance with the provisions of Part D.2
(a) of this Section, the Bank’s prior approval will be required for:
(i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the period of
extension exceeds sixty (60) days; and (ii) any subsequent extension
of the bid validity period. | |

(b) In the procurement of gools in accordance with this Part
A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank
shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project.
Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the
Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.

Part B: Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Republic of
- 22 ~

Kazakhstan may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
l. Items or groups of items for specialized goods with a limited

number of suppliers, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$400,000, may be procured under contracts awarded through limited
international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and
comparison of bids obtained from a list of potential suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines broad enough to ensure competitive
prices, and in accordance with procedures set forth in Sections III,
paragraph 3. 2 of the Guidelines.

2. Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $800,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers from at least three different countries
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.

3. . Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $100,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

4. Contracts for goods which the Bank agrees are of proprietary
Nature, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,000,000, may be
awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement. Decisions

l. Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final

contracts:

(a) With respect to each contract awarded under inter-
national competitive bidding procedures referred to in Part A.l
hereof, limited international bidding procedures referred to in Part
C.1 hereof, direct shopping procedures referred to in Part C.4
- 23 -

hereof, and the first two contracts awarded under international
shopping procedures referred to in Part C.2 hereof, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of
the Special Accounts, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Accounts in respect of such contract.

(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Accounts, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan
Account are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2. The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. |

Section IL. Employment of Consultants

l. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in

accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex,
time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants
under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants’
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have
been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other
standard forms agreed with the Bank.
- 24 -

2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting
firms, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b)
contracts for the employment of individual consultants, estimated to
cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to
prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for
such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the
Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting
firms, raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above;
or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants, raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or
above. | | | —
- 25 -

SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
l. The following agencies of the Borrower shall, on behalf of the

Borrower, implement the following parts of the Project, subject to
the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Schedule 5:

Agency | | Parts of the Project

SCSP | Parts A.l and C(b)

MOE . Parts A.2, A.3 and C(c)

MOF Parts B.1l and C(a)

NBK | Parts B.2, B.3, B.4 and C(d)
2. NBK shall also be responsible for the procurement and

disbursement of consulting services, training and goods under Parts.
C(a), C(b) and C(c) of the Project, and the MOE shali also be
responsible for the procurement and disbursement of consulting
services, training and goods under Part B.1 of the Project.

 
= 26 -

SCHEDULE 6
Special Accounts
le For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 2(a) and
3(a) in the case of Special Account A, Categories l(a), 2(b), 2(d).
and 3(b) in the case of Special Account B, and Categories l(b),
l(c), 2(c), 2(e), 2(£) and 3(c) in the case of Special Account C,
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement ; | :

(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

(c) the term “Authorized Allocation" means: (i) an amount
equivalent to $100,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account A pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of
this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall .
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an
amount equivalent to $50,000 until the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed
the equivalent of $0.5 million; (ii) an amount equivalent to
$200,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into
the Special Account B pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$100,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $1.5
million; and (iii) an amount equivalent to $300,000 to be withdrawn
from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account C
pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation
shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $100,000 until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the
- 27 -

Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be
equal to or exceed the equivalent of $4.0 million.

2. Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule. .

3. After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Accounts has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Accounts shall be made as follows:

(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shail furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the appropriate Special Accounts such amount
or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. | |

(b) (i) For replenishment of the Special Accounts, the
| Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
deposits into the Special Accounts at such

intervals as the Bank shall specify.

(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
documents and other evidence required pursuant
to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
or payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, —
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
the Special Accounts such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been
shown by said documents and other evidence to
have been paid out of the Special Accounts for
eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
- 28 -

4. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Accounts, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Accounts:

| (a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or )

(b) if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii)
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished
to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the
records and accounts for the Special Accounts; or

(c) if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant
to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or |

(d) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Accounts as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6. (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Accounts: (i) was made for an expenditure
- 29 -

or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this —
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Accounts (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Accounts shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

(b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Accounts will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount. | :

(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Accounts.

(d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions. | | | | |
_ INTERNATIONAL BANK :
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

CERTIFICATE

[ hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank

for Reconstruction and Development.

FOR SECRETARY

 
