 

LOAN NUMBER 8135-BR

Loan Agreement

(Pernambuco Rural Economic Inclusion Project —
Projeto Pernambuco Rural Sustentivel )

between

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

and

STATE OF PERNAMBUCO

 
LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated as of the Signature Date (as defined in the Appendix to the

Loan Agreement), between the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”), and the STATE OF PERNAMBUCO (“Borrower”).
The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

2.01.

2.02.

2.03.

2.04,

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions {as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE I — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million Dollars
($100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 ofthis
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule | to
this Agreement (“Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower’s Representative for
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this
Section is the Borrower’s Secretary for Agriculture and Agrarian Reform.

The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05.

2.06.

3.01.

3.02.

The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

(a)

(b)

(c)

The Borrower may at any time , in each case with prior non-objection of
the Guarantor, through the Secretariat of the National Treasury of the
Guarantor’s Ministry of Finance, request any of the following
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt
management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an
Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from
a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a
Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate
applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate.

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined

in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the .

provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE Ill — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project, through SARA, in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall

_2-
ensure that the Project is carricd out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

4.01. The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that
the Operational Manual has been adopted through a regulation (Portaria) to be issued by
the Borrower in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.

4.02. The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the Loan has
been duly registered with the Central Bank of Brazil.

4.03. Without prejudice to the provisions of the Gencral Conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date, but in no case later than the
eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan which expire on September 6,
2013.

ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

5.01. Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower’s
Representative is its Governor.

5.02. The Borrower’s Address is:
Palacio do Campo das Princesas
Praga da Republica, s/n
$0010-928 — Recife
Pernambuco
Brazil

Facsimile: 55-81-3 1812322

With copy to:

SEAIN -— Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais

do Ministério do Planejamento, Orgamento e Gestdo
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco “K” — So. andar
70040-906 Brasilia, DF

Brazil

Facsimile: 55-61-2020-5006
5.03.

The Bank’s Address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145(MCI)

AGREED at Banus Baek on behalf of the Bank = on
Tene. 15, ACleand at Lio a Cmte pani on behalf of the Borrower on

(¥

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By fJltbent— ae Me |

Authorized Representative

STATE OF PERNAMBUCO

ized Representative

 
SCHEDULE 1

Project Description

The objective of the Project is to promote rural business initiatives and expansion
of rural access to water and other complementary infrastructure, by supporting the
Borrower’s Results Management Framework.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Part 1: Investments in Rural Economic Inclusion

Promote investments in rural economic inclusion in the Borrower’s territory,
through the provision of support to:

(a)

(b)

ProRural for Business Plan preparation activities to inter alia, (i)
elaborate and implement a communication strategy to strengthen LPAs;
(ii) identify and develop viable Business Plans with defined territorial
Strategies; (iii) train and certify local service providers on how to prepare
business profiles and Business Plans, as well as on how to improve
management and develop innovative financing mechanisms for the rural
economy; and (iv) carry out technical studies in the areas of
competitiveness, including market studies and analysis of new potential
value chains.

RPOs for the carrying out of productive investments, through Matching
Grants, for the implementation of Productive Subprojects.

Part 2: Complementary Rural Infrastructure.

Promote investments in complementary rural infrastructure in the Borrower’s
territory, through the provision of, inter alia:

(a)

(b)

support to RPOs for the carrying out of complementary rural
investments, through Matching Grants, for the implementation of
Infrastructure Subprojects; and

training and the development of capacity-building initiatives to
strengthen the day-to-day management of Infrastructure Subprojects,
including small-scale rural water supply and sanitation systems.
Part 3: Project Management, Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation.

Provision of support for, inter alia: (i) the technical and administrative
management of the Project; (ii) the development, implementation and supervision of the
ESMEF, the IPPF, the RPF, and the communication strategy referred to in Part 1(a)(i) of
the Project; (iii) the necessary updates to ProRural’s management information system;
and (iv) the design, development and implementation of an impact evaluation module to
track progress on results indicators.

ee Ne
a
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

A. Institutional and Other Arrangements

l. No later than 45 days after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall establish, and
thereafter maintain during the implementation of the Project, a Steering
Committee chaired by SARA, and composed by representatives from key
secretaries and organizations, as defined in the Operational Manual, responsible
for providing general oversight and guidance on the strategic and multisectoral
aspects of the Project.

2. The Borrower shall maintain within SARA during the implementation of the
Project a unit (ProRural), consisting of staff having experience and qualifications
satisfactory at all times to the Bank, and responsible for overall coordination and
implementation of the Project, including fiduciary responsibilities.

3. The Borrower shall: (a) prepare and furnish to the Bank annual operating plans,
satisfactory to the Bank, detailing the Project activities to be carried out during
the next succeeding year, together with the respective sources of funding, by
October 30 of each year during Project implementation; (b) furnish to the Bank
the approved annual operating plans (including the respective sources of funding)
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for cach year in question, not later
than 30 days after the approval of the Borrower's annual budget by its Legislative
Assembly (Assembleia Legislativa), and (c) thereafter, implement each of said
plans in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

4, The Borrower shall, and shall cause the respective RPO through the pertinent
Subproject Agreement to, carry out the project in accordance with a manual (the
Operational Manual), satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include the rules,
methods, guidelines, standard documents and procedures for the carrying out of
the relevant parts of the Project, including the following: (i) the detailed
description of Project implementation activities and the detailed institutional
arrangements of the Project; (ii) criteria and methods for the selection of RPOs;
(iii) social, economic, financial, technical and environmental criteria for
screening and selecting Subprojects, including a negative list of environmentally
sensitive investments ineligible for financing under a Subproject; (iv) guidelines
for the adoption of an integrated pest management approach in all applicable
activities to be developed under the Project; (v) guidelines to follow in case of
unexpected findings of objects with possible cultural or archeological] value; (vi)
a model form of a Subproject Agreement; (vii) the Project administrative,
accounting, auditing, reporting, financial (including cash flow aspects in relation

_7-
thereto), procurement and disbursement procedures (including customized
statements of expenditures and all pertinent standard documents and model
contracts in relation thereto); (viii) the monitoring indicators for the Project; and
(ix) the ESMF, IPPF and the RPF. In the event that any provision of the
Operational Manual shall conflict with this Agreement, the terms of this
Agreement shall prevail.

Anti-Corruption

The Borrower shall, and shall cause RPOs through the pertinent Subproject
Agreement to, ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

Subprojects

For the purposes of carrying out Part 1(b) and 2 (a) of the Project, the Borrower
shall:

(i) after having selected a Subproject in accordance with the guidelines and
procedures set forth in the Operational Manual, enter into an agreement
with the eligible RPO (“Subproject Agreement”), under terms and
conditions approved by the Bank and included in the Operational
Manual, for the provision of Matching Grants for the implementation of
said Subproject.

(it) ensure that each Subproject Agreement is prepared based on the model
form approved by the Bank and included in the Operational Manual, in
which the Borrower shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests
and those of the Bank, including the right to: (1) suspend or terminate the
right of RPO to use the proceeds of the Matching Grant, or obtain a
refund of all or any part of the amount of the Matching Grant then
withdrawn, upon RPO’s failure to perform any of its obligations under
the Subproject Agreement; and (2) require each RPO to: (a) carry out its
pertinent Subproject with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance
with sound technical, economic, financial, managerial, environmental
and social standards and practices satisfactory to the Bank, including in
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines
applicable to recipients of Loan proceeds other than the Borrower, the
ESMEF, the RPF, and the IPPF; (b) provide, promptly as needed, the
resources required for the carrying out of the Subproject; (c) procure the
goods, works, Non-consulting Services and Consultants’ Services to be
financed out of the Matching Grant in accordance with the provisions of
this Agreement; (d) maintain procedures adequate to enable it to monitor
and evaluate in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the
progress of the pertinent Subproject and the achievement of its

-8-

ee NCS
a —"
objectives; (e) (i) maintain a simplified financial management system
and records in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards
acceptable to the Bank for community driven initiatives, both in a
manner adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures
related to the Subproject; and (i) at the Bank’s or the Borrower’s
request, have the resulting financial statements audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, and promptly furnish the
statements as so audited to the Borrower and the Bank; (f) enable
ProRural and the Bank to inspect the Subproject, its operation and any
relevant records and documents; and (g) prepare and furnish to the
Borrower and the Bank all such information as the Borrower or the Bank
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing.

(iit) exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the Subproject
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate, waive, terminate or fail to enforce any Subproject Agreement
or any provisions thereof.

(iv) furnish to the Bank for its prior review the first three Productive and
Infrastructure Subproject Agreements.

Safeguards

Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF)

The Borrower shall, through SARA: (a) implement the Project in accordance
with the ESMF (including provisions for natural habitats, forests and pest
management); and (b) adopt the procedures detailed in said ESMF for

environmental screening, cvaluation, implementation and monitoring of
Subprojects.

Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework (IPPF)

The Borrower shall, through SARA: (a) implement the Project in accordance
with the IPPF; (b) adopt the procedures detailed in said IPPF for screening,
evaluation, implementation and monitoring of Subprojects; and (c) implement
and/or cause to be implemented, the pertinent Indigenous Peoples development
plans.

Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF)

The Borrower shall, through SARA: (a) implement the Project in accordance

9.
with the RPF; (b) adopt the procedures detailed in said RPF for screening,
evaluation, implementation and monitoring of Subprojects; and (c) implement
and/or cause to be implemented, the pertinent resettlement development plans.

Section I. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

A.

Project Reports

The Borrower, through SARA, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section
5 08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the performance indicators
acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the Operational Manual. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to
the Bank not later than two months after the end of the period covered by such
report.

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

The Borrower, through SARA, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09
of the General Conditions.

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each
calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the
semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower shall have the Financial Statements of the Project audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of
the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.

Section II. Procurement

General

Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.

Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with

-10-

iNeg
a, Fa)
the requirements sct forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.

Definitions, ‘The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections J], HI, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services

International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures.

Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurcment, other than
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and
non-consulttng services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances
under which such methods may be used:

(a) National Competitive Bidding (including the method known as “pregdo
eletrénico”, as provided in the Guarantor’s Law No. 10520, of July 17, 2002
under any €-procurement system acceptable to the Bank) , subject to the
following additional procedure, namely, that the bidding documents shall be
acceptable to the Bank.

(b) Shopping ( including the method known as “pregdo eletrénico”, as provided
in the Guarantor’s Law No. 10520, of July 17, 2002, under any e-
procurement system acceptable to the Bank). _

(¢) Commercial Practices, pursuant to paragraph 3.13 of the Procurement
Guidelines for contracts procured by RPOs. ;

d) Direct Contracting.

(e) Community Participation in Procurement procedures, as set forth in the

Operational Manual.

   
     
      
  
  

 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Sclection.

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based

-Il-
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used:

  
 
     
 
  
    
  

Procurement Method

a) Selection based on Consultant’s Qualifications
b) Selection under a Fixed Budget
(c) Least Cost Selection -
(d) Procedures set forth in Paragraphs 5.1 and 5.5 of the Consultants Guidelines
for the Selection of Individual Consultants
(e) Commercial Practices pursuant to paragraph 3.13 of the Consultant
Guidelines, for contracts procured by RPOs.
(f) Single Source Selection
g) Fixed- Cost Selection ;
(h) Sole Source Procedures for the selection of Individual Consultants set forth

in paragraph 5.6 of the Consultant Guidelines

D. Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the

Bank.

Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

 

A. General

l. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article JI of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

2. The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.

_12-

 
     
    
   

   
 
 
   

    

    
       
    
 
 

Category Amount of the Loan Percentage of
Allocated Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) financed
(1) Goods, works, Non- 42,800,000 100% of the amount
Consulting Services disbursed under a
and Consultants’ Matching Grant
Services required for
Productive
Subprojects under Part
1(b) of the Project _
(2) Goods, works, Non- 37,444,000 100% of the amount
Consulting Services disbursed under a
and Consultants’ Matching Grant
Services required for
Infrastructure
Subprojects under Part
2(a) of the Project
(3) Good, works, 12,906,000 100%
Consultants’ Services,
Non-Consulting
Services and Training
(except those covered
by Categories (1) and.
(2) above) required for
the Project
4) Operating Costs 50%

 
  

   

 
  

(5) Front-end Fee 250,000 Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of
the General Conditions
Amount due pursuant to
Section 2.07(c) of this

Agreement

      
     

      
 
 

(6) Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar
premium |
(7) Unallocated
TOTAL AMOUNT

 
   
 
  

  
 
  

   
 

2,600,000
100,000,000

  

For the purposes of this Section:

(a) the term “Operating Costs” means the reasonable incrementa! operational
costs (which would not have been incurred absent the Project), related to
Project monitoring and supervision incurred by ProRura/ under the

-|3-
Project, excluding expenditures for civil servant salaries and related
benefits; and

(b) the term “Training” means expenditures (other than those for Goods,
Non-Consulting Services and Consultants’ services) incurred by the
Borrower to finance reasonable transportation costs and per diem of
trainees and trainers (if applicable), accommodations, catering, rental of
training facilities, as well as materials and equipment under the Project.

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000 equivalent may be made for
payments made on or after August 1, 2011, but in all cases twelve months prior
to the Signature Date, for Eligible Expenditures under Categories (1), (2), (3) and
(4) of the table in Section IV of this Schedule.

The Closing Date is January 31, 2019. The Bank will grant an extension of the
Closing Date after the Guarantor’s Ministry of Finance has informed the Bank
that it agrees with such an extension.

Other Undertakings

Without limitation to the provisions of Section 5.03 of the General Conditions,
the Borrower shall provide the amount of Thirty Five Million Two Hundred and
Fifty Thousand Dollars ($35,250,000) as counterpart funds required for Project
implementation.

-14-
SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

    
 

Installment Share

(Expressed as a Percentage)

2.17%

Principal Payment Date

 
  
   

  

On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning May 15, 2018

_through May 15, 2040

On November 15, 2040 | 235% ©

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph |
of this Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph | of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share’)
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

-15-
(a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
‘nvoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs | and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.

-16-

 
APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

l.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006, and revised in January 2011.

“Business Plan” means a long-term, voluntary, commercial relationship,
proposed by an LPA to ProRural in accordance with relevant provisions of the
Operational Manual, aimed at meeting market demands, and based on
arrangements to carry out jointly developed investments, including Subprojects,
and undertake mutual commercial transactions.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.

“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers”, dated January 2011.

“Environmental and Social Management Framework or ESMF” means the
Borrower’s framework dated June 28, 2011, as published and available to the
public on the website www.prorural.pe.gov.br, satisfactory to the Bank, which
contains the environmental protection measures in respect of the Project, including
measures for chance finding of cultural property, protection of natural habitats and
pest management, identification of existing environmental conditions and
potential direct and indirect environmental impacts resulting from the carrying
out of the Project (including Subprojects), recommendation of mitigation
measures for each negative impact identified, as well as measures for enhancing

each identified positive impact.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010.

“Indigenous Peoples” means the indigenous peoples recognized as such by the
Guarantor’s Fundacdo Nacional do Indio, the National Indian Foundation
established and operating pursuant to the provisions of the Guarantor’s Decree
No. 4645, dated March 25, 2003, as eligible to benefit from the constitutional and
other legal protection as indigenous peoples.

“Indigenous Peoples’ Planning Framework or IPPF” means the Borrower’s
framework dated June 30, 2011, published and available to the public on the
website www.prorural.pe.gov.br, satisfactory to the Bank, detailing measures to
mitigate any adverse impact on Indigenous Peoples as a result of any activity

-17-
10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

carried out under the Project (including Subprojects) and to ensure that they
benefit from the Project, including procedures for the preparation and
implementation of the pertinent Indigenous Peoples development plans.

“Infrastructure Subprojects” means any eligible complementary rural investment
aimed at extending the Borrower’s basic rural infrastructure network (including
acquisition of small-scale rural water supply systems (including cisterns), rural
sanitation (including septic systems); reduction and/or elimination of bottlenecks
in the flow of value-added production along the producer chain (e.g., small
bridges, all-weather crossings, minor road reforms)), identified and prioritized in
a Business Plan, or approved by the Borrower in accordance with relevant
provisions of the Operational Manual and to be partly financed with a Matching
Grant under a Subproject Agreement for the activities set forth in Part 2(a) of the
Project and to be carried out by a RPO.

“TPA” means a local productive alliance comprised of a cluster of RPOs, small
and medium enterprises, technical service providers (both public and private),
financial and academic institutions, and/or non-governmental organizations, all
located in the Borrower’s territory, in mutually beneficial commercial
arrangements within a given value chain.

“Matching Grants” means a financial transfer from the Borrower to a selected
RPO, for the partial financing of an eligible Subproject, subject to the specific
terms and conditions set forth in the Operational Manual and the relevant
Subproject Agreement.

“Non-Consulting Services” means the costs of services which are of non-
intellectual nature and that can be procured on the basis of performance of
measurable physical outputs, including unskilled labor, installation of equipment,
repairs and/or maintenance services.

“Operational Manual” means the manual for the operation of the Project referred
to in Section [.A.4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers”, dated January 2011.

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project,
dated January 31, 2012 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.

“Productive Subprojects” means any eligible productive and market-oriented,
small-scale infrastructure, cultural and/or environmental investment (including

- 18 -

peer
19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

water supply, sanitation, electricity, and environmental activities) identified and
prioritized in a Business Plan, or as approved by the Borrower in accordance with
the relevant provisions of the Operational Manual and to be partly financed with
a Matching Grant under a Subproject Agreement for the activities set forth in
Part 1(b) of the Project and to be carried out by a RPO.

“ProRural” means the Borrower’s technical unit within SARA, created through
Decreto Estadual No. 10,090 of January 18, 1985, and referred to in Section
].A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Resettlement Policy Framework or RPF” means the document prepared by the
Borrower and dated June 30, 2011, published and available to the public on the
website www.prorural.pe.gov.br, satisfactory to the Bank, and outlining general
implementation procedures, mitigation measures and monitoring procedures for
involuntary resettlement under the Project, as said framework may be amended
from time to time with the Bank’s prior approval.

“RPO” means a rural producer-based ‘organization vested with legal personality
and/or a group of rural citizens organized into a legally established private
association, all of which, upon meeting the criteria set forth in the Operational
Manual, is eligible to receive a Matching Grant on behalf of its members, for the
carrying out of either a Productive Subproject under Part !(b) of the Project or an
Infrastructure Subproject under Part 2(a) of the Project.

“Results Management Framework” means the Borrower’s strategy created under
Law No. 14! of September 3, 2009 (Todos por Pernambuco, Gestdo
Democratica e Regionalizada com Foco em Resultados), for the promotion and
extension of sustainable development both geographically, and  socio-
economically (e.g. targeting the rural poor, Indigenous Peoples and
Quilombolas), integrating actions across the Borrower’s territory, within SARA
and the Project.

“SARA” means Secretaria de Agricultura e Reforma Agraria, the Borrower’s
Secretariat of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform, or any successor thercof.

“Signature Date” means the latest of the two dates on which: (i) the Bank and the
Borrower signed the Loan Agreement; and (ii) the Guarantor and the Bank
signed the Guarantee Agreement, and such definition applies to all references to
“the date of the Loan Agreement” and/or “the date of the Guarantee Agreement”
in the General Conditions.

“Steering Committee” means the committee referred to in Section J.A.1 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

-19-
24.

25.

“Subproject” means any Productive Subproject and/or any Infrastructure
Subproject.

“Subproject Agreement” means each agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower, through SARA-ProRural, and an eligible RPO, as specified in Section
C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

-20 -

< Nie
fe
