Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

fo,
; OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS |

LOAN NUMBER 8164-ID

Loan Agreement

(Program for Economic Resilience, Investment and Social Assistance in Indonesia
(PERISAD) Development Policy Loan with Deferred Drawdown Option)

between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated MAY 3) , 2012

 

 
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated MAy 3/ , 2012, entered into between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing
financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The
Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of (a) the actions
which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an
adequate macroeconomic policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore
hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
_ Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN

2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two billion United States Dollars
(US$2,000,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07
of this Agreement (“Loan”). |

2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
in accordance with Section II of Schedule | to this Agreement.

2.03. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date.

2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a stand-by fee on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate of one-half of one percent (0.50%) per annum. The stand-by
fee shall accrue from the Effective Date to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. The stand-
by fee shall be payable. semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.

2.05. The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
2.08.

-2-

such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article [V of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by
the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the
General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are March 1 and September | in each year.

(a)

(b)

(a)

(b)

Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this Section, the
principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Borrower may at the time of requesting a Withdrawal also request
repayment provisions different from those set out in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement for such Withdrawal, provided that: (i) the average maturity
of such Withdrawal does not exceed 18 years from the Withdrawal Date
and the final maturity of such Withdrawal does not exceed 30 years from
the Withdrawal Date (or such other average maturity and/or final
maturity as may be generally applicable to loans made by the Bank to the
Borrower at the time of such agreement); and (ii) such repayment
provisions have been agreed between the Borrower and the Bank prior to
the Withdrawal Date of such Withdrawal.

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
5.01.

5.02.

_3-

provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

ARTICLE ITI — PROGRAM

The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:

(a) the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of
either party, exchange views on the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;

(b) prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request; and

(c) without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation
that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the
Program or any action taken under the Program including any action
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, a
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
significant part of it, will be carried out.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, the
Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the
Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy
framework.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date sixty (60) days after the date of this
Agreement.
4.

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance.
6.02. The Borrower’s Address is:

Ministry of Finance

c/o Directorate General of Debt Management
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4

P.O. Box 1139

Jakarta 10710

Indonesia

Cable address: Facsimile:
FINMINISTRY (21) 381 2859
Jakarta

6.03. The Bank’s Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145(MCI)
-5-
AGREED at Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

By Rahmat Waluyanto h

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

» GA

Authorized Representative

 

See
ifs
Ss
te
mages
Oe
3
ee
Be
Tn.
er
f:
BE
a
Pia
aa
SA
ae
nee.
are
see
a
te
ee
ae
wee
ae
a .
Be

hat rot ety Sy RS eg aye . Hole tay SUB Biygbe ot ah ety
s Se OS pe PRESS ANE RE Th eget E M ey : OT REESE ONS
genet ete mens co : :
-6-

SCHEDULE 1

Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds

Section I. Actions under the Program

The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:

1.

The Ministry of Finance and Bank Indonesia created the Joint Financial Services
Authority (OJK) Preparation Team.

The Borrower established the Financial Sector Stability Coordination Forum
under the Financial Services Authority (OJK) Law.

The Ministry of Finance prepared a National Crisis Management Protocol that
sets forth mechanisms for systemic monitoring, coordination, and information
sharing on the financial system among Ministry of Finance, Bank Indonesia,
Deposit Insurance Corporation (LPS) and the Financial Services Authority
(OJK).

The Ministry of Finance issued a Financing Plan for 2012 that specifies the terms
and circumstances under which the government of the Borrower would draw on
financing support available from PERISAI and from Indonesia’s development
partners providing related support.

The Budget Law for 2012 provided flexibility to the government of the Borrower
to use fiscal policy to stimulate demand in the event of an economic or fiscal
crisis.

The President established the Budget Implementation Evaluation and
Supervisory Team (TEPPA) led by the Presidential Working Unit for
Supervision and Management of Development (UKP4).

The Statistics Indonesia (BPS) established an improved and standardized
mechanism for processing and making available household socio-economic and
labor force survey data.

The Borrower strengthened the Cash Transfer Program to be used in the event of
a crisis, through: (1) improved targeting of poor and vulnerable households; and
(11) better dissemination of the Cash Transfer Program among key stakeholders.
_7-

Section II. Availability of Loan Proceeds

A.

General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
may specify by notice to the Borrower.

Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal
tranche, from which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds.
The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:

Amount of the Loan
Allocations (expressed in United States Dollars)
Single Withdrawal Tranche 2,000,000,000

TOTAL AMOUNT 2,000,000,000

Payment of Front-end Fee. No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan
Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee.

   
 

     

Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds. If, at any time prior to the receipt by the Bank
of a request for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the Bank determines that a
review of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework or of its progress in
carrying out the Program is warranted, the Bank shall give notice to the Borrower
to that effect. Upon the giving of such notice, no withdrawals shall be made of
the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance unless and until the Bank has notified the
Borrower of its satisfaction, after an exchange of views as described in
paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section.3.01 of this Agreement, with: (1) the progress
achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program; and (2) the adequacy of
the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework.

Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:

l. all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank:
and

2. the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the

Loan into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the
Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the
Bank.

Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines
at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an
-8.

Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, —
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.

Closing Date. The Closing Date is June 30, 2014.
9.

SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule

Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall
repay each Disbursed Amount in semiannual installments payable on each March
1 and September 1, the first installment to be payable on the fifth (5") Interest
Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount and
the last installment to be payable on the fourteenth (14") Interest Payment Date
following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount. Each installment
shall be equal to one-tenth (1/10") of the Disbursed Amount.

The Bank shall notify the Loan Parties of the amortization schedule for each
Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed
Amount.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 through 2 of this Schedule, in the
event of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed Amount to
an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that
is repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (1) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency.
-10-

APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

l.

“Bank Indonesia” means Bank Indonesia, the Borrower’s central bank, or any
successor thereto.

“Budget Implementation Evaluation and Supervisory Team (TEPPA)” means
Lim Evaluasi Pengawasan Pelaksanaan Anggaran, the team established by the
President of the Borrower and led by the Presidential Working Unit for
Supervision and Management of Development (UKP4) to improve budget
implementation, or any successor thereto.

“Budget Law for 2012” means the Borrower’s Law No. 22 of 2011, as revised.

“Cash Transfer Program” means Bantuan Langsung Sementara Masyarakat, the
Borrower’s temporary unconditional cash transfer program established by the
Budget Law for 2012 as revised, or any successor thereto.

“Deposit Insurance Corporation (LPS)” means Lembaga Penjamin Simpanan, the
Borrower’s Deposit Insurance Corporation, or any successor thereto.

“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure:

(a) for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
or grant;

(b) for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the
Borrower:

 

Alcoholic beverages

Tobacco, un-
manufactured, tobacco

 
 

  

 
 

  
(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

-1l-
525
semiprecious stones,

667
unworked or worked

718 718.7 Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof: fuel elements
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear
reactors

728 728.43 Tobacco processing
machine

897 897.3 Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or
silversmiths’ wares
(including set gems)
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold ores and
concentrates

    
   
 

tobacco substitutes) |

Radioactive and associated
materials
Pearls, precious and

   

  
  

    
 
      

   
     
  
  

 
     
   
   
 
 
  

 
    
 

  

 
 
 
    

for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;

for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
agreements to which the Borrower is a party;

on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
United Nations; and

with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.

“Financial Sector Stability Coordination Forum” means the Borrower’s forum,
established under Article 44 of the Financial Services Authority (OJK) Law to
conduct monitoring and evaluation of financial system stability as well as to
formulate and implement policies needed to prevent and handle crises, or any
successor thereto.
10.

15.

16.

18.

-12-

“Financial Services Authority (OJK)” means Otoritas Jasa Keuangan, the
Borrower’s Financial Services Authority, established pursuant to the Financial
Services Authority (OJK) Law, or any successor thereto.

“Financial Services Authority (OJK) Law” means the Borrower’s Law Number |
21 of 2011.

“Financing Plan,” means the Borrower’s financing plan for public expenditure
support issued by Director General of Debt Management Decree No.
21/PU/2012, dated April 11, 2012.

“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year, commencing on January 1 and
ending on December 31.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012 with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

“Joint Financial Services Authority (OJK) Preparation Team” means the team
established by joint Ministry of Finance and Bank Indonesia Decree
No. 43/KMK.010/2012, No. 14/6/KEP.GBI/2012, dated February 14, 2012.

“Ministry of Finance” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, or any
successor thereto.

“National Crisis Management Protocol” means the protocol prepared by the
fiscal policy office of the Ministry of Finance setting forth mechanisms for
systemic monitoring, coordination and information sharing on the Borrower’s
financial system among Ministry of Finance, Bank Indonesia, Deposit Insurance
Corporation (LPS) and the Financial Services Authority (OJK).

“PERISAI” means the Borrower’s Program for Economic Resilience, Investment
and Social Assistance in Indonesia, supported by the Loan.

“President” means the individual who is president of the government of the
Borrower pursuant to Article 4 of the 1945 Constitution of the Republic of
Indonesia.

“Presidential Working Unit for Supervision and Management of Development
(UKP4)” means Unit Kerja Presiden Bidang Pengawasan dan Pengendalian
Pembangunan, the Borrower’s Presidential Working Unit for Supervision and
Management of Development, or any successor thereto.
19,

20.

21.

-13-

“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
referred to in the letter dated April 11, 2012 (Letter No. S-250/MK.08/2012,
S-145/M.EKON/04/2012) from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting
assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its execution.

“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of
Section IT of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

“Statistics Indonesia (BPS)” means the Badan Pusat Statistik, the Borrower’s
Central Bureau of Statistics, or any successor thereto.

Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:

1.

The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
accordingly.

Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.

Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows:

“Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records

(c) The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.”

Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows:
-14-

Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

ve (c) The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.

The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
accordingly:

(a)

(b)

(c)

The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as
follows:

“Eligible Expenditure’. means any use to which the Loan is put in
Support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.”

The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their
entirety.

The term “Fixed Spread” is modified to read as follows:

“Fixed Spread” means, for each Withdrawal, the Bank’s fixed spread for
the Loan Currency of the Withdrawal in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington,
D.C. time, on the Withdrawal Date, and expressed as a percentage per
annum; provided, that: (a) for purposes of determining the Default
Interest Rate, pursuant to Section 3.02 (e), that is applicable to an amount
of the Withdrawn Loan Balance on which interest is payable at a Fixed
Rate, the “Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s fixed spread in effect at
12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, one calendar day prior to the date of
the Loan Agreement, for the Currency of denomination of such amount;
(b) for purposes of a Conversion of the Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on the Fixed Spread, and for
purposes of fixing the Variable Spread pursuant to Section 4.02, “Fixed
Spread” means the Bank’s fixed spread for the Loan Currency in effect at
12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time on the Conversion Date; and (c) upon
a Currency Conversion of all or any amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance, the Fixed Spread shall be adjusted on the Execution Date in the
manner specified in the Conversion Guidelines.
(d)

(e)

(f)

(g)

(h)

-15-

The definition of the term “Loan Payment” is modified to read as
follows:

“Loan Payment” means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank. pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions,
including (but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan
Balance, interest, the Front-end F ee, interest at the Default Interest Rate
(if any), any stand-by fee, any prepayment premium, any transaction fee
for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the Variable
Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any
Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower.”

The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is
modified to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”:

“Program” means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in
support of which the Loan is made.”

The term “Variable Spread” is modified to read as follows:

“Variable Spread” means, for each Withdrawal and each Interest Period:
(1) the Bank’s standard lending spread for Loans in effect at 12:01 a.m.
Washington, D.C. time, on the Withdrawal Date; (2) minus (or plus) the
weighted average margin, for the Interest Period, below (or above) the
Reference Rate, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by it to fund loans
that carry interest at a rate based on the Variable Spread; as reasonably
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. In the
case of a Loan denominated in more than one Currency, “Variable
Spread” applies separately to each of such Currencies.

A new term “Withdrawal” is added to read as follows:

“Withdrawal” means each amount of the Loan withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 2.01.

A new term “Withdrawal Date” is added to read as follows:

“Withdrawal Date” means, for each Withdrawal, the date on which the
Bank pays the Withdrawal.
