Seine |

Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

 

LOAN NUMBER 8136-IN

Loan Agreement

(Assam State Roads Project)
between
INDIA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated Wovenber S ,2012
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated Noventbex $ , 2012, between INDIA (“Borrower”) and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.02.

2.01.

ARTICLE I —- GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of three hundred and twenty million
Dollars ($320,000,000) as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07
of this Agreement (“Loa”), to assist in financing the project described in
Schedule | to this Agreement (“Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article ITV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by
the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the
General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
“01.

(b)

(c)

-2-

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a chenge of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iit) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Varialsle Rate or the Reference Rate.

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines. |

Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE Ill — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause Assam to carry out the Project in accordance with

the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the Project Agreement.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-3-

ARTICLE IV —- EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

4.01. The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.

ARTICLE V —- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

5.01. The Borrower’s Representative is the Secretary, or any Additional Secretary,
Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department
of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower.

5.02. The Borrower’s Address is:

Secretary to the Government of India
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance

New Delhi, India

Cable: Telex: Facsimile:
ECOFAIRS 953-3 1-66175 91-11-23094075
New Delhi FINE IN

5.03. The Bank’s Address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145(MCI) |
4.
AGREED at News Dbl , India, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By a %) ay
Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

yo CD

Authorized Representative
-5-

SCHEDULE 1
Project Description

The objective of the Project is to enhance the road connectivity in Assam by

assisting PWRD to improve and effectively manage Assam’s road network.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Part 1: Road Improvement

Supporting improvement of priority sections of secondary roads in Assam to improve
state connectivity and facilitate regional integration, including, but not limited to, the
following:

(a)

(b)
(c)

(d)

Improving about 500 k:lometers (km) of secondary roads (widening and
upgrading about 300 km cf roads, and pavement rehabilitation and strengthening
of about 200 km of roads), constructing related bridges, including introduction
of new technologies related to the design and construction of said roads and
bridges.

Supporting Project preparation, supervision, management, and monitoring.

Resettlement and rehabili:ation assistance to Displaced Persons and supporting
an HIV/AIDS awareness frogram.

Supporting construction of stand-alone bridges using innovative technical
designs.

Part 2: Road Sector Modernization and Performance Enhancement

Supporting the implementation of Assam’s Road Sector Modernization Program,
including, but not limited to, the following:

(a)

(b)

Modernizing and strengthening PWRD’s policies, engineering practices, and
business procedures based on best practices in the road industry, including
development of a long- term sector policy and strategy for modernizing PWRD’s
codes, manuals, and engineering tools for Project preparation and
implementation.

Strengthening Assam’s road asset management and maintenance system through:
establishing a strategic core network representing key state and regional
corridors; expanding and strengthening the role of ASRB; operationalizing the
Road Maintenance Fund; establishing an asset management system and preparing
plans for roads’ construction and their maintenance; and introducing
-6-

performance- based and/or other innovative methods for maintenance of roads
through private sector participation.

‘c) Supporting PWRD’s institutional and human resource development through
implementation of suitable plans for staff training and professional development
in identified priority areas; improvement of efficiency and productivity of PWRD
staff; and capacity building of the local construction industry.

‘d) Streamlining, standardizing, and computerizing PWRD key business processes
through supporting enhancement and rollout of various modules of PWRD’s
computerization program to all its field offices in a phased manner.

Part 3: Road Safety Management

Strengthening safety management capacity of related agencies in Assam through
developing and implementing a multi-sector road safety strategy, including
implementation of safe corridor demonstration programs/projects on identified road
sections; development and operationalization of a road accident database and
management system; strengthening road safety capacity of PWRD during design,
construction and operation stages cf the Project; supporting awareness programs on road
safety and work zone safety; and supporting implementation of engineering
countermeasures for the roads to be widened and upgraded under Part | of the Project.
_7-

SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

Availability of Funds

I.

To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds
of the Loan available to Assam in accordance with the Borrower’s standard
arrangements for development assistance to the States of India.

The Borrower shall protect the interests of the Bank to accomplish the purposes
of the Loan.

Anti-Corruption

3.

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Cor-uption Guidelines and those of GAAP.

Section I. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

A.

Project Reports

The Borrower shall cause Assam to monitor and evaluate the progress of the
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed
with the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar
quarter, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after
the end of the period covered by such report.

Financial Management, linancial Reports and Audits

The Borrower shall maintain and cause Assam through ASRB to maintain a
financial management sys:em in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09
of the General Conditions.

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
cause Assam through ASRB to prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than
forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited
financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank. |

The Borrower shall have the Designated Account referred to in Section 2.04 of
the General Conditions audited and shall cause Assam to have the Project
-8-

Financial Statements audited, all in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Designated Account
and the Project Financial S:atements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year
of the Borrower, commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal
was made under the Project. The audit reports for the Designated Account and
the audited Project Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.

Section III. Procurement

iv

Dw

General

Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services requirecl for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section. |

Consultants’ Services. A/] consultants’ services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the prcvisions of this Section.

Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, II, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services

International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in
paragraph .2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.

Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and
non-consulting services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances
under which such methods may be used:
ts

D.

Procurement Method

    
   
   
    

National Competitive Bidding (subject to the additional provisions agreed |
upon from time to tine between the Borrower and the Bank and referred to
in the Procurement Plan)

  

Shopping
Direct Contracting

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
Quality- and Cost-base] Selection. Except as otherwise provided in

paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.

' Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table

specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used:

Procurement Method
(a) Quality-Based Selection
b) Selection under a Fixed Budget
c) Least Cost Selection
d) Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualifications
(e) Single-Source Selec:ion
(f) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants
2) Sole Source Procedvres for the Selection of Individual Consultants

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.

Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article Il .of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
QB) Front-end Fee

ee
(4) Interest Rate Cap or Interest

-10-

Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to: (a) repay the Preparation Advance
in accordance with Section 2.07(a) of the General Conditions; (b) finance the
Front-end Fee in accordance with Section 2.07(b) of the General Conditions; and
(c) finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

inn

The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:

 
 
   

  
    
 

Percentage of
Amount of the Loan Expenditures to be
Allocated financed
(expressed in USD) (inclusive of Taxes)

317,200,000 85%
2,000,000 Amount payable
pursuant to
Section 2.07(a) of the
General Conditions

800,000 Amount payable
pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in
accordance with
Section 2.07(b) of the
General Conditions

Amount due pursuant
to Section 2.07(c) of
this Agreement

 

 
 
  

Category

(1) Goods, works,
non-consulting services,
consultants’ services,
Training and Workshops,
and Operating Costs

_
(2) Refund of the Preparation
Advance

    
   

 
   

 
 

   
   
     
   
     
  

 

  
  

Rate Collar premium

 
 

TOTAL AMOUNT

320,000,000

 

For purposes of this Section IV:

(a) the term “Training and Workshops” means non-consultant expenditures incurred
in connection with the provision of training, including, study tours and
workshops, training institution fees, logistics, materials, and the cost of travel and
per diem of trainers and trainees; and |
(b)

ins
«

-1l-

the term “Operating Costs” means incremental costs incurred by Assam for the
purposes of carrying out the Project, including office rent and utilities, office and
equipment insurance, office maintenance and repair, vehicle rental, maintenance
and repair, communication, Project related travel, and other administrative costs
directly associated with, ancl necessary under, the Project, including incremental
costs incurred by Assam for the purposes of data collection, field and laboratory
investigations undertaken by PWRD’s own staff related to the preparation of
engineering designs, asset management, and other activities required to carry out
the Project.

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000 equivalent
may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after June 1, 2011,
for Eligible Expenditures under Category (1).

The Closing Date is March 31, 2018.
-12-

SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any

amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency

Conversion applies.
Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)

3.85%

 
    
 
   

Principal Payment Date
On each March 15 and September 15

  

  

     
    
 

Beginning September 15, 2017
through September 15, 2029

On March 15, 2030

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 |
of this Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in arnounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”)
and the denomirator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applizs.
-13-

(a) Amounts of the Lcan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to
any Principal Payrnent Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the dale of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the

provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one (1) Loan
Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount
denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization
schedule for each such amount. |
AEA MS arom et Styrene

nN

VAI

.14-

APPENDIX
Definitions

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.

“ASRB” means the Assam State Roads Board, a society registered under the
Societies Registration Act, .860 and under the administrative control of PWRD.

“Assam” means the State of Assam, a state of India, or any successor thereto.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.

“Chief Engineer Office” mans the office referred to in paragraph 1(a), Section I,
of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.

“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social
impacts caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation
or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income
sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to
another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated
parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such
persons; and a “Displaced Person” means any of such Displaced Persons.

“EMF” means the environmental management framework, dated October 5,
2011, adopted by Assam, and satisfactory to the Bank, which sets forth policies
and procedures for the preliminary screening of environmental impacts of any
activities that may be icentified during later years of implementation of the
Project, and for the preparation of environmental assessment and environment
management plans there‘or during the implementation of the Project, as said
framework may be amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the
Bank.

“EMP” means the environmental management plan, dated October 5, 2011,
adopted by Assam, and satisfactory to the Bank, describing the environmental
management, mitigation, monitoring, reporting and institutional measures to be
 

14.

-15-

undertaken by Assam during the Project implementation, as such plan may be
revised from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012.

“GAAP” means the governance and accountability action plan, dated February 7,
2012, which sets out the Project specific key actions to strengthen governance,
transparency and accountability, as such plan may be amended from time to time
with the prior agreement of the Bank.

“Indigenous Peoples Development Plan” means the plan dated October 17, 2011,
adopted by Assam and satisfactory to the Bank, describing the approach, strategy
and measures to be followed to ensure that tribals participate in and benefit from

_ the Project; as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior

agreement of the Bank.

“Indigenous Peoples Mariagement Framework” means the framework, dated
October 17, 2011, adopted by Assam and satisfactory to the Bank, whose
objective is to address issues related to vulnerable populations associated with
tribal and indigenous communities in the Project areas, as the same may be
amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank.

“Multi-disciplinary Working Group” means the group referred to in
paragraph 1(c), Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.

“Operations Manual” means the Operations Manual for the Project, dated
February 7, 2012 including detailed guidelines and procedures for procurement,
financial management, Project implementation, supervision and monitoring, as
the same may be amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the
Bank.

“Preparation Advance” means the advance referred to in Section 2.07(a) of the
General Conditions, granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter
agreement signed on behalf of the Bank on January 19, 2007 and on behalf of the
Borrower on August 3, 2017.

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“Procurement Plan” means Assam’s procurement plan for the Project, dated
February 7, 2012 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
19.

21).

21.

25.

-16-

“Project Implementing Entity” means Assam.
“PWRD” means the Public Works Road Department of Assam.

“RAP” means the resettlement action plan, dated October 17, 2011, adopted by
Assam and satisfactory to the Bank, which sets forth resettlement, land
acquisition, and tribal communities rehabilitation and assistance actions to be
undertaken by Assam under the Project, as such plan may be revised from time to
time with the prior agreeme.t of the Bank.

“Road Sector Modernization Program” means the program adopted by PWRD to
modernize and reform Assam’s road sector, which may be modified in
consultation with the Bank based on the experiences gained during Project
implementation. .

“Road Reforms and Modernization Task Force” means the task force referred to
in paragraph 1(b), Section ] of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.

“RPF” means the resettlement policy framework dated October 17, 2011,
adopted by Assam, and satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth the general terms
and conditions for carrying out any social, resettlement and rehabilitation
activities under the Project, including identification, assessment and mitigation of
potential social impacts arising from the Project, carrying out consultations,
processing and redressing grievances, monitoring related impacts, and, if
required, resettlement and rehabilitation action plans and other development and
entitlement plans for Disp.aced Persons, as such framework may be revised from

time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank.

“Road Maintenance Func” means a fund under ASRB to receive funds from
Assam for roads maintenance. |
