Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

 

— |
OFFICIAL |
DOCUMENTS |

; Ee a

LOAN NUMBER 8134-MX

Loan Agreement

(Strengthening Social Resilience to Climate
Change Development Policy Loan)

between

UNITED MEXICAN STATES

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated May 45 ,20\2
LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated Ma S , 2012, entered into between UNITED
MEXICAN STATES (“Borrower”), represented by its Ministry of Finance and Public
Credit (Secretaria de Hacienda y Crédito Publico - SHCP), and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of
providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this
Agreement). The Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of
(a) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are
described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and (b) the Borrower’s
maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework.

Whereas the Borrower has informed the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan (as
set forth in the table in Section II.B of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and for purposes of
Supporting the Program), shall be used in conformity with the requirements of the
Borrower’s income, budgetary and public debt laws and the terms of this Agreement. The
Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN

2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of three hundred million seven hundred
fifty one thousand eight hundred seventy nine Dollars and seventy Cents
($300,75 1,879.70), as such amount may be converted from time to time through
a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement (“Loan”).

2.02. As a consequence of the Borrower’s maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic
policy framework and its satisfactory implementation of the Program, the
Borrower may, or may cause NAFIN to, withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Unless the
Borrower’s representative designated in Section 6.01 of this Agreement
otherwise informs the Bank, the Borrower’s Representative for purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is the
Director/a de Organismos Financieros Internacionales of NAFIN, or any person
2.03.

2.04.

2.05.

2.07.

or persons whom such representative shall jointly or severally designate in
writing.

The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

(a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.

(b) Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

-2-
2.08.

3.01.

3.02.

(c)

Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section II of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this
Article I] as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.

ARTICLE Til — PROGRAM

The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its results. To this
end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(a)

the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of
either party, exchange views on the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy
framework and the progress achieved in the implementation of the
Program;

prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower, through NAFIN,
shall furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the
progress achieved in the implementation of the Program, in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request; and

without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Borrower shall, or shall cause NAFIN to, promptly inform
the Bank of any situation that would have the effect of materially
reversing the objectives of the Program or any action taken under the
Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.

The Borrower, through SHCP, shall enter into a contract (Contrato de
Mandato) among SHCP, SEMARNAT and NAFIN, satisfactory to the
Bank, whereby:

(i) NAFIN agrees to act as financial agent of the Borrower with

regard to the Loan, meaning that, inter alia, NAFIN agrees to
represent the Borrower vis-d-vis the Bank for purposes of

-3-
4.01.

5.01.

5.02.

5.03.

submitting Loan withdrawal applications to the Bank in form
and substance sufficient to justify disbursement by the Bank to
the Borrower of Loan proceeds in compliance with the terms of
this Agreement; and

(ii) the Borrower, through SHCP and SEMARNAT, shall cooperate
fully with NAFIN to ensure that NAFIN is able to comply with
all of NAFIN’s obligations referred to in paragraph (a)(i) of this
Section.

(b) The Borrower, through SHCP and SEMARNAT, shall exercise its rights
and carry out its obligations under the Contrato de Mandato in such a
manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not terminate, amend, waive or fail to enforce any
provision of the Contrato de Mandato. In case of any conflict between
the terms of the Contrato de Mandato and those of this Agreement, the
terms of this Agreement shall prevail.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following, namely that a
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
significant part of it, will be carried out.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) That the Contrato de Mandato has been executed by the parties thereto.

(b) The Bank is satisfied with the implementation of the Program and with
the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework.

The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the Borrower
(in its legal opinion) and NAFIN (in a separate legal opinion satisfactory to the
Bank, issued by NAFIN’s counsel acceptable to the Bank), indicate that the
Contrato de Mandato has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and
delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and NAFIN and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and NAFIN in accordance with the Contrato de Mandato’s terms.

Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan
which expire on August 30, 2013.

-4-
6.01.

6.02.

6.03.

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

Except as set forth in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower’s
Representative is the Titular de la Unidad de Crédito Publico of SHCP. The
authorized representative to make requests for Conversions or for an IBRD
Hedge (as defined in the Hedging Guidelines) on behalf of the Borrower shall be
(a) the Titular de la Unidad de Crédito Publico of SHCP or any person or
persons whom he or she shall designate in writing for this particular purpose, or
(b) NAFIN’s Director/a de Organismos Financieros Internacionales.

Unless the Borrower’s representative designated in Section 6.01 above otherwise
informs the Bank, the Borrower’s Address for the purposes of Section 10.01 of
the General Conditions is: :

Secretaria de Hacienda y Crédito Publico
Unidad de Asuntos Internacionales de Hacienda
Insurgentes Sur 1971

Torre III, tercer piso

Colonia Guadalupe Inn

01020 México, D.F.

The Bank’s Address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145(MC])

5-
AGREED at
first above written.

as of the day and year

 

UNITED MEXICAN STATES

/) Authorized Representative

By

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR

  

orized Representative

-6-
Section I.

SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds

Actions under the Program

The actions already taken by the Borrower, through, inter alia, SEMARNAT, SEDESOL,
SAGARPA and CONAFOR, under the Program include the following:

A. Strengthening Social Resilience through Long-term Climate Change Adaptation

Planning Oriented to the State Level:

1.

The CICC’s Adaptation Working Group has: (i) approved a Mid-Term
Adaptation Policies Framework (Marco de Politicas de Adaptacién de
Mediano Plazo), which requires the development of measures for reduction
of differential vulnerability and strengthening of local adaptive planning, as
evidenced by the CICC’s Adaptation Working Group minutes of the
meeting dated November 19 2010; and (ii) created a Technical Advisory
Committee to facilitate participation of experts and key stakeholders in the
formulation of a future national adaptation strategy of the Borrower, as
evidenced by the minutes of the CICC’s Adaptation Working Group
meeting of December 13, 2011.

An agreement to develop a regional strategy for climate change adaptation
in the Yucatan Peninsula and a Climate Action Fund for the Yucatan
Peninsula, coordinated by the Climate Change Regional Commission for
the Yucatan Peninsula, has been entered into among the States of Yucatan,
Campeche, and Quintana Roo, as evidenced by the “General Coordination
Agreement on the Yucatan Peninsula’s Climate Change” among the
referred States dated December 7, 2010. The Borrower, through
SEMARNAT, has submitted copies of said agreement to the Bank.

A new budgetary program “National Program for Climate Change
Adaptation and Prevention of Natural Disasters” (Programa Nacional de
Adaptacién del Cambio Climdtico y de Prevencién de Desastres
Naturales) for implementation by the Borrower, through SEMARNAT, has
been enacted to finance climate change adaptation initiatives, as evidenced
through the approval and publication in the Official Gazette of the budget
law for fiscal year 2011, on December 7, 2010, referring to the said
program, for the amount of 300,000,000 Pesos, in Annex 31 of the referred
law.
B. Strengthening Social Resilience through Disaster Risk Reduction and Territorial
Development Actions Oriented to the Municipal Level:

1.

The Borrower, through SEDESOL, has strengthened the delivery of risk
reduction actions in Municipalities through: (i) the creation of a new
program for risk prevention in human settlements (“Prevencion de Riesgos
en los Asentamientos Humanos”’), which offers financing for risk reduction
actions to Municipalities, as evidenced by the publication of said program
in the Official Gazette on December 31, 2010; and (ii) the issuance of the
new operational rules of the temporary employment program (Programa
de Empleo Temporal, PET) for the fiscal year 2011, to orient it toward the
financing of local disaster prevention projects for the fiscal year 2011, as
evidenced by the publication of said program in the Official Gazette on
December 31, 2010.

SEDESOL’s guidelines for sustainable urban development, aimed at
fostering sustainable urban territorial development and increased social
resilience, have been incorporated by selected housing institutions of the
Borrower, such as CONAVI with its upfront subsidy program “Esta es tu
casa” and INFONAVIT with its mortgage origination criteria, as evidenced
by: (i) said guidelines submitted by SEDESOL on January 23, 2012; (ii)
the CONAVI rules of operation of the referred program, published in the
Official Gazette on December 26, 2011; and (iii) by the adoption of
INFONAVIT’s financial plan for 2011-2015, incorporating an innovative
strategy for green mortgages.

The Borrower, through SAGARPA, strengthened and improved the
targeting of its natural disaster risk management and prevention program
(CADENA) for low income farmers, by lowering the eligibility ceiling for
disaster and catastrophe insurance payouts, as evidenced by the publication
in the Official Gazette of the rules of operations of SAGARPA’s programs
(Reglas de Operacidn de los Programas de la Secretaria de Agricultura,

Ganaderia, Desarrollo Rural, Pesca y Alimentacion), on December 31,
2010.

C. Strengthening Social Resilience at the Community Level through Sustainable
Community Forest Management: .

1.

CONAFOR signed bilateral cooperation agreements (Convenios de
Colaboracion), with SAGARPA and SEMARNAT, fostering the sharing
of information among said institutions on forestry programs, and aligning
procedures and incentive programs on agricultural, livestock and forestry
issues, as evidenced by the signing of bilateral Cooperation Agreements
between: (i) CONAFOR and SAGARPA, on November 9, 2011; and (it)
CONAFOR and SEMARNAT, on November 7, 2011.
Section I.

A national multi-stakeholder consultative technical council and three state-
leve] multi-stakeholder consultative technical councils (CTC-REDD) have
been created, as evidenced by: (i) the minutes of the meeting of the second
ordinary session for 2011 of the CTC REDDt+, dated June 9, 2011, (ii) the
minutes of the meeting of the Government of the State of Chiapas dated
August 12, 2011, (iii) the minutes of the meeting of the consultative
technical council for REDD+ of the State of Campeche dated August 29,
2011, and, (iv) the minutes of the meeting of the consultative technical
council for REDD+ of the State of Quintana Roo dated August 25, 2011.
Copies of all these minutes were submitted by the Borrower, through
CONAFOR, to the Bank.

The Board of JIRA, approved REDD+ as a strategic line for its multi-
annual work program, as evidenced by the minutes of the fifth ordinary
session for 2010 of the Municipal Board of the Ayuquila River “JIRA”,
dated July 15, 2010. Copy of said minutes were submitted by the
Borrower, through CONAFOR, to the Bank

Availability of Loan Proceeds

A. General. The Borrower may, or may cause NAFIN to, withdraw the proceeds of
the Loan in accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional
instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower.

B. Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan except for amounts required to pay the
Front-end Fee is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the
Borrower may, or may cause NAFIN to, make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds.
The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:

 
  
 

(1) Single Withdrawal 300,000,000.00
Tranche

2) Front-end Fee 751,879.70

(3) Amount due pursuant
to Section 2.07(c) of this
Agreement

TOTAL AMOUNT

 
 
  

Amount of the Loan

 

   

rs

    
   
   
 

 
 
 

300,751,879.70

 

Cc. Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions. No withdrawal shall be made of the
Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is satisfied (a) with the Program
being implemented by the Borrower, and (b) with the adequacy of the
Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework.
Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:

1. all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank;
and

2. the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the

Loan into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the
Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the
Bank.

Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower shall use the proceeds of the Loan in
accordance with its laws and shall not us them to finance Excluded Expenditures.
If the Bank determines at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make
a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to
the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.

Closing Date. The Closing Date is March 30, 2013.

-10-
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule

The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on August 15,
2023.

-11-
APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

l.

“CADENA” means Componente Atencién a Desastres Naturales en el Sector
Agropecuario y Pesquero del Programa de Prevencién y Manejo de Riesgo,
which is a component of the Borrower’s natural disaster risk management and
prevention program.

“CONAFOR” means Comision Nacional Forestal, the Borrower’s National
Forest Commission.

“CONAVI”? means Comisién Nacional de Vivienda, the Borrower’s National
Housing Commission.

“Contrato de Mandato” means the contract referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of this
Agreement.

“CICC’s Adaptation Working Group” means the Borrower’s Interministerial
Climate Chahge Commission adaptation working group (Grupo de Trabajo para
Politicas y Estrategias de Adaptacion de la Comision Intersecretarial de Cambio
Climatico).

“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure:

(a) for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
or grant;

(b) for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the
Borrower:

-12-
(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

   
   
 

Description of Item
Alcoholic beverages

Tobacco, un-
manufactured, tobacco
refuse
Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes

 
 
    
   

   
 
     
 
 
  
  

  

Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear
reactors

   
       
   
      

Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or
silversmiths’ wares

     
    

for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;

for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
agreements to which the Borrower is a party;

on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
United Nations; and

with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,

collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower

-13-
13.

14.

(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012 with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

“INFONAVIT” means the Borrower’s National Housing Fund for Workers
(Instituto del Fondo Nacional de la Vivienda para los Trabajadores).

“JIRA” means the Borrower’s Environment Intermunicipal Board for the
Integrated Management of the Lower Basin of the Ayuquila River (Junta
Intermunicipal de Medio Ambiente para la Gestion Integral de la Cuenca Baja
del Rio Ayuquila).

“Municipalities” means any of the 2,438 political subdivisions of the Borrower.

“NAFIN” means Nacional Financiera, S.N.C., a Mexican development bank
serving as the Borrower’s financial agent for purposes of the Loan.

“Official Gazette” means the Borrower’s official gazette (Diario Oficial de la
Federacion).

“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
strengthen social resilience to climate change aimed to promote sustainable
human development, and eventually achieve growth and poverty reduction, and
set forth or referred to in the letter dated January 19, 2012 from the Borrower to
the Bank declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program,
and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its
execution.

“REDD+” means reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation
plus conservation, sustainable management of forests and enhancement of forest
carbon stocks.

“SAGARPA” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock, Rural
Development, Fisheries and Food (Secretaria de Agricultura, Ganaderia,
Desarrollo Rural, Pesca y Alimentacion).

“SEDESOL” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Social Development (Secretaria
de Desarrollo Social).

“SEMARNAT” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Environment and Natural

Resources (Secretaria de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales), which the
Borrower declares is the Borrower’s executing entity for purposes of the

-14-
20:

21.

Loan ("executing entity" means, for purposes of this clause, the entity that has
provided the Bank with the evidence of compliance with the prior actions listed
in Schedule | to this Agreement.

“SHCP” means Secretaria de Hacienda y Crédito Publico, the Borrower’s
Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit. .

“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of

_ Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

“State” means any of the thirty-one political subdivisions of the Borrower, and
the Federal District (Distrito Federal).

“Technical Advisory Committee” means the technical advisory committee
created by the CICC’s Adaptation Working Group to facilitate the participation
of experts and key stakeholders in the formulation of the Borrower’s future
national adaptation strategy.

Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:

1.

The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
accordingly.

Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly,

Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above -
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows:

“Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records

(c) The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures

-15-
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.” _

6. Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows:

Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

we (c) The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.

7. The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
accordingly:

(a)

(b)

(c)

The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as
follows:

“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.”

The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their
entirety.

The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is
modified to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in
support of which the Loan is made.”

-16-
