Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

CERES Bast nga pital ERE mo

DOCUMEMTS |

1 eR ad TRON. Ma

1

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8195-UA

Loan Agreement

(Second Road and Safety Improvement Project)
between
UKRAINE
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated Id ober 44 anon

 

 
LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated At0be r 4d , 2012, between UKRAINE (“Borrower”)

and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

‘02.

«OL,

2.06

2.07.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to tiem in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to t1e Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of four hundred fifty million United States Dollars
($450,000,000) (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement (“Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread: provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any por:ion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02
(e) of the General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedul2 3 to this Agreement.

(a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(b)

(c)

(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency;

(11) a change of “he interest rate basis applicable to:

(A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice
versa, or

(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate
and the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed
Reference Rate and the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or

(C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outs:anding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to
a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and

(iti) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate
applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.

Any conversion recuested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article [V of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.

Promptly following “he Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE Ii — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall cause the Prcject to be carried out by the Project Implementing Entity in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the Project
Agreement.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower, through the Project Implementing Entity, and the Bank shall otherwise
5.01.

5,03

0,04

6.01.

6 02.

agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE 1'V — REMEDIES OF THE BANK
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following:

(a) The Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation has been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability
of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:

(a) The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower, through
the MOF, and the Project Implementing Entity;

(b) The Project Operations Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, has been approved and
adopted by the Projet Implementing Entity; and

(c) The Project Implementing Entity has provided evidence satisfactory to the Bank
of its adoption of the GAC Action Plan.

The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following: that the Subsidiary Agreement has
been duly authorized by the Borrower, through the MOF, and the Project Implementing
Entity and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity in
accordance with its terms.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
Any amendment to this Agreement shali be executed by agreement of the parties hereto
in accordance with the provisions of Section 10.02 of the General Conditions. Such
amendment shall become effective as set forth in the amending agreement.

ARTICLE VI —- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance.
The Borrower’s Address is:
Ministry of Finance
12/2 Hrushevsky St.

Kyiv, 01008
Ukraine
6.03.

The Bank’s Address is:

Telex: Facsimile:

131450 (380-44) 253-82-43
(380-44) 201-56-85

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

Telex: Facsimile:
248+423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)

AGREED at Kyiv, Ukraine, as of the day and year first above written.

UKRAINE

By
Authorized Representative

Name: Volodymyr Demi Akan

Title: (ha rman / Ukravtodor

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Authorized Representative

Name: ti mito Fan

Title: (oundry ire ctor
SCHEDULE 1

Project Description

The objectives of the Project are an improved condition and quality of sections of the M-

0: road and increased traffic safety or. roads.

Part 1:

Part 2:

Part 3:

The Project consists of the following parts:
Road Rehabilitation

Rehabilitating approximately 108 kilometers of the Kyiv-Kharkiv-Dovzhansky road in
the Poltava Oblast, including civil works for the rehabilitation and strengthening of the
existing road, widening of certain sections from two lanes to four lanes, and building
three bypasses around populated areas.

Road Safety Improvements
Improving road safety along various road corridors or sections in Ukraine.
Institutional Support and Strengthening

Provision of technical advisory services, Training and equipment to enhance road
management within the territory of the Borrower according to international practice,
including:

(1) in the areas of road safety, an assessment of approximately 12,000-15,000
kilometers of main roads, including the coding of data based on the iRAP
methodology, data aialysis and road safety “star rating” of road sections,
identification of the most suitable and appropriate road safety measures and
interventions for each road, and detailed design of road safety measures for the
high-priority sections of corridors; and

(11) the support for the development of a Strategic Investment Program for Road
Sector Development until 2030.
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

A.

I.

Institutional Arrangements

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Implementing Entity carries out the Project
implementation and manager ent with due diligence and efficiency.

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Implementing Entity carries out the Project in
accordance with the policies and procedures set forth in the Project Operations Manual
and shall not alter, amend, vary or waive any provision of the Project Operations Manual
without consultation with, and the prior consent of, the Bank.

Subsidiary Agreement

To facilitate the carrying out of the Project Implementing Entity’s implementation of the
Project, the Borrower, throug1 the MOF, shall make the Loan proceeds available to the
Project Implementing Entity under a subsidiary agreement between the Borrower,
through the MOF, and the Project Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions
approved by the Bank (“Subsidiary Agreement”), which shall include provisions stating
that the Project Implementing Entity shall be responsible for the overall day-to-day
implementation and management of the Project and shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Project Operations Manual, the Environmental Management Plan,
the Framework Addendum to the Environmental Management Plan, the Resettlement
Policy Framework and the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

The Borrower, through the MOF, shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement
In such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish
the purposes of the Project. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower,
through the MOF, shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement
or any of its provisions.

Anti-Corruption

The Borrower shall ensure <hat the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

Safeguards
Environmental Safeguards

(a) The Borrower shall ensure that all measures necessary for the carrying out of the
Environmental Manazement Plan and the Framework Addendum thereto
(b)

(“Framework Addendum”) shall be taken in a timely manner and that all legal
and administrative slanning and environmental permits and authorizations
necessary to carry out the Project are secured in a timely manner and with due
diligence.

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Implementing Entity takes all
measures necessary and identified under the Environmental Management Plan
and the Framework Addendum at all times in a timely manner, ensuring that
adequate information on the implementation of said measures is suitably included
in the Project progress reports to be prepared pursuant to the provisions of
Section II.A of this Schedule. |

2. Land Acquisition and Resettlement

In the event that land acquisition or resettlement is required for the purposes of

carrying out activities under the Project, the Borrower shall:

(a)

(b)

(c)

Section IT.

notify the Bank or ensure that the Project Implementing Entity notifies the Bank,
of any intended acquisition of land or resettlement, in whole or in part, and of
each Resettlement Action Plan (if any) prepared in accordance with the
Resettlement Policy Framework; of any of the following: residences, agricultural
holdings, commercial structures and businesses, land used by people without

claim to legal title, and persons affected by Project activities; .

disclose, or ensure that the Project Implementing Entity discloses, the
Resettlement Policy Framework and each Resettlement Action Plan (if any)
prepared under the Froject and all relevant information relating thereto in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank no less than sixty (60) days prior to carrying out
any land acquisition ov resettlement; and

ensure that the Project Implementing Entity causes all land acquisition and
resettlement under the Project to be undertaken in accordance with the provisions
and procedures contained in the Resettlement Policy Framework and the
respective Resettlement Action Plans, and that all relevant information is
adequately provided to all affected persons, and potentially affected persons, in a
timely and adequate manner.

Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

A. Project Reports

1. The Borrower shall ensure thet the Project Implementing Entity monitors and evaluates
the progress of the Project and prepares Project Reports in accordance with the provisions
of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the
Bank. Each Project Report shzll cover the period of one quarter of one calendar year, and
shall be furnished to the Bank and the Borrower’s Ministry of Economic Development
and Trade not later than one month after the end of the period covered by such report.
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Implementing Entity prepares on or about
March 31, in each year of the Project, commencing March 31, 2013 an annual forecast
plan containing financial projections and revised and updated Project monitoring and
evaluation indicators for the activities to be undertaken in the upcoming year, in a format
acceptable to the Bank, and shall promptly submit such plans to the Bank for its review
and comment.

Mid-term Review

Not later than June 30, 2014, the Borrower, through the Ministry of Economic
Development and Trade and the Project Implementing Entity, shall carry out together
with the Bank, a mid-term review of the progress made in carrying out the Project
(hereinafter referred to as the “Mid-term Review”). The Mid-term Review shall include,
but not be limited to, the following subjects:

(a) progress made in meeting the Project’s objectives; and
(b) overall Project performance against Project performance indicators.

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Implementing Entity prepares, and at least
three (3) month prior to the Mid-term Review, furnishes to the Bank, a separate report
describing the status of implementation of each component of the Project and a summary
report of Project implementation generally (the “Mid-term Report”). :

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

The Borrower shall maintain cr cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall ensure
that the Project Implementing Entity prepares and furnishes to the Bank within forty-five
(45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for
the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Implementing Entity has its Financial
Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General
Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal
year of the Borrower, commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal is
made. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period and shall be made
publicly available in a timely fashion and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
Section WI, Procurement
A. General

l.

Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.

Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section.

Definitions. The capitalizec terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to
the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the Procurement Guidelines,
or Sections II, III, ['V and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services

International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.

Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The
following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than International
Competitive Bidding, which raay be used for goods, works and non-consulting services.
The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be
used.

(a) Limited International Bidding;
(b) Shopping; anc.
(c) Direct Contracting

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,

consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality
and Cost-based Selection.
-10-

 

2. Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection,
which may be used for consultants’ services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the
circumstances under which such methods may be used:

(a) Least Cost Selection;

(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget;

(c) Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications;
(d) Individual Consultants; and

(e) Single/Sole Source Selection.

D. Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s
Prior Review. Atl other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.

Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

A. General

1. The Borrower may withdraw “he proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May: 2006, as revised from time to time by
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

2. The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be

financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
Expenditures in each Category:
Category

(1) Goods, works, non-consulting
services, consultants’ services
and Training

(2) Front-end Fee

(3) Interest Rate Cap or Interest
rate Collar Premium

TOTAL AMOUNT

-11-

Amount of the Loan
Allocated
(expressed in USD)

$448,875,000

$1,125,000

$450,000,000

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

Percentage of Expenditures
to be financed
(exclusive of Taxes)

    
    

100%

Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this

Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07(b) of the General
Conditions

     
       
    

Amount due pursuant to
Section 2.07 (c) of this

Agreement in accordance with
Section 4.05 (c) of the General
Conditions

 
    
     
 

l. Notwithstanding the provisiors of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made
for:

(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and

(b) payments made for expenditures under Category (1) which relate to activities to

be carried out on or in relation to any land that is the subject of a Resettlement
Action Plan until the Borrower has provided evidence, satisfactory to the Bank,
that the Resettlement Action Plan has been satisfactorily carried out.

2. The Closing Date is December 31, 2016.
-12-

SCHEDULE 3
A.mortization Schedule

The following table sets fcrth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principa’ Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by

- multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.

Principal Payment Date Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)

  

On each April 15 and October 15 4.55%
Beginning October 15, 2018
Through October 15, 2028

©n April, 15 2029

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall te determined as follows:

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph | of this Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bark by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date[, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to .n paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

(a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
-13-

withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occu:ring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either: (_) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-14-

APPENDIX

Definitions

1.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”,
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers”
dated January 2011.

“Environmental Management Plan” or “EMP” means the Environmental Management
Plan dated March 3, 2007 describing the environmental mitigation measures anticipated
for activities under the Project and the parties responsible for executing works and
monitoring of construction and operational impacts.

“Framework Addendum to the Environmental Management Plan” means the Framework
Addendum to the EMP describing the further environmental mitigation measures
anticipated for activities under the Project and the parties responsible for executing works
and monitoring of constructior. and operational impacts.

“GAC Action Plan” means the Project Implementing Entity’s plan entitled “Governance
and Anti-Corruption Action Pan” to be adopted by the Project Implementing Entity and
referred to in Section 5.01(c) of this Agreement.

“General Conditions” mears the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012.

“IRAP” means the Internationzl Road Assessment Programme.

“Ministry of Economic Develcpment and Trade” means the Borrower’s central executive
body that operates under the Provision on the Ministry of Economic Development and
Trade, approved by the President’s Order No. 634 dated May 31, 2011, or its legal
successor,

“Ministry of Finance” or “MOF” means the Borrower’s central executive body that
operates under the Provision on the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, approved by the
President’s Order No. 446 dated April 8, 2011, or its legal successor.

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers” dated January 201}.
-15-

“Procurement Plan” means tte Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated July
26, 2012 and referred to in pzragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph
1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.

“Project Agreement” means the agreement of same date between the Bank and
Ukravtodor and referred to in Paragraph 76 of the Annex to the General Conditions.

“Project Implementing Entity” means the Borrower’s State Road Agency of Ukraine
(Ukravtodor), the Borrower’s central executive body that operates under the Provision on
the State Road Agency of Ukraine, approved by the President’s Order No. 456/201]
dated April 13, 2011, or its legal successor.

“Project Operations Manual” means the manual prepared by the Project Implementing
Entity to be adopted by the Project Implementing Entity and referred to in Section
5.01{b) and Schedule 2, Section I.A, paragraph 2 of this Agreement, for use in Project
implementation, and which includes fiduciary, financial management, procurement,
safeguards, anti-corruption, monitoring and reporting, and auditing provisions.

“Resettlement Action Plan” means each plan relating to land acquisition and/or
resettlement of Project-affected persons, as the case may be, prepared under the Project in
accordance with the Resettlement Policy Framework, including the Resettlement Action
Plan dated March 28, 2012 prepared for Part 1 of the Project.

“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the framework document prepared by the
Project Implementing Entity in accordance with the requirements of the national
legislation of the Borrower, approved by the Bank for the Project implementation and
dated March 11, 2012, describing the process and procedures to be taken, the plans to be
prepared, and the mitigation and compensation measures, and consultation and
information processes to be followed in the event of land acquisition or resettlement of
persons affected by the Project as a result of implementation of Part 1 or Part 2 of the
Project.

“Second Road and Safety Improvement Project” means the Project titled “Improvement
of Transport and Operational (Conditions of the International Road M-03 Kyiv-Kharkiv-
Dovzhansky on the section Lubny-Poltava” in accordance with the Order No. 140/2012
of the President of the Borrower dated July 17, 2012 authorizing the Project negotiations
and signing.

“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement between the Borrower’s Ministry of
Finance and the Project Implernenting Entity and referred to in Section I.B of Schedule 2
to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan
available to the Project Implementing Entity. |
-16-

20. “Training” means training ccurses, seminars, workshops, study tours and other training
activities to be financed from the Loan proceeds, including travel and per diem costs of
trainees and trainers.

21. “Non-consulting Services” means the non-consulting services’ referred to in the
Procurement Guidelines.
