Public Disclosure Authagized

Public Disclosure Authorized

lh

OFFICIAL |
DOCUMENTS |

J
H

a

 

j Q
|

 

* inet

 

2, a

LOAN NUMBER 8168-BR

Loan Agreement |

(Recife Education and Public Management Project-
Programa de Desenvolvimento da Educagao e da
Gestao Publica no Municipio do Recife)

between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

and

THE MUNICIPALITY OF RECIFE

pated Croeober 24,2012
 

LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated October 3) , 2012, between the INTERNATIONAL BANK

EOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) and the MUNICIPALITY
OF RECIFE (“Borrower”). The Bank. and the Borrower hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

202.

2.03.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of “his Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IT — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred and thirty million
Dollars ($130,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07
of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the cost of the project
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement:

(a) for Part 1 of the Project for reimbursement of Eligible Expenditures
incurred by the Borrower and pre-financed from its own resources, as
part of the Eligible Expenditure Programs; and

(b) for Part 2 of the P-oject for reimbursement for Eligible Expenditures
incurred by the Borrower, or as advances for Eligible Expenditures.

The Borrower’s representative for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken pursuznt to this Section is the Borrower’s Secretary of the
Special Secretariat of Management and Planning, or any person or persons whom
he or she shall designate.

The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loar. amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
not later than 60 days after the Effective Date.
2.05.

2.06.

2.07.

The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payab.e by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be deterrnined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a pe-iod of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

(a) The Borrower may at any time, in each case with the prior no objection
of the Guarantor, through the Guarantor’s Secretariat of National
Treasury of the Ministry of Finance, request any of the following
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt
management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an
Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to:
(A) all or any porticn of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spreac, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdraw:1 and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.

(b) Any conversion recjuested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the 3ank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
401.

4.02.

5.01.

ARTICLE Ill — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall:

(a) through SEGESP, ca:ry out Part 2(e) of the Project;

(b) through SEEL, carry out Parts 1 and 2(a) of the Project;

(c) through SEFIN, carrv out Parts 2(b) and 2(c) of the Project;

(d) through SADGP and SEFIN, carry out Part 2(d) of the Project; and
(e) through SSP, carry out Part 2(f) of the Project,

all under the coordination of SEGESP and in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the Loan has
been duly registered with the Central Bank of Brazil.

Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan
which expire on November 29, 2013.

ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

Except as provided in Szction 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower’s
Representative is its Mayor.
te *

e NZ
Ga
1

3,02.

5.03.

The Bank’s Address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:
INBAFRAD 248:423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145(MCI)

The Borrower’s Address is: |

Secretaria Especial de Gestio e Planejamento (SEGESP)
Prefeitura do Recife

Cais do Apolo 925, 9° andar

Recife — PE, 50030-903

Pernambuco

Brazil

Facsimile: (55-81) 3355-8014
With copy to:

Secretaria de Financas (SEFIN)
Prefeitura do Recife

Cais do Apolo 925, 14° andar
Recife — PE, 50030-903

Brazil

Facsimile: (55-81) 3355-8752

Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais - SEAIN

Ministério do Planejaments, Orgamento e Gestdéo Esplanada dos Ministérios
Bloco “K” — 5° andar

Brasilia — DF, 70040-906

Brazil

Facsimile: (55-61) 2020-5006.
Lys ; | ,
AGREED at Qyaska , Federative Ker bhi of Brash as of

tlie day and year first above written.

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By Wbah L

Authorized Representative

MUNICIPALITY OF RECIFE

da Odom

Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1

Project Description

The objective of the Project is to expand coverage of improved early child
education (ECE), create conditiors more conducive to learning in Fundamental
Education, and improve municipal public management, all within the Borrower’s

territory.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Part 1: Expand coverage of improved ECE and create conditions conducive to learning
in Fundamental Education

Provision of support for the implementation of the Eligible Expenditure
Programs, including activities to:

(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)

rehabilitate ECE cen:ers;

promote multi-sectoral early child development;

create conditions more conducive to learning in Fundamental Education;
professional development of the municipal teaching force; and

education management.

Part 2: Strengthen institutions for more efficient and effective public management

Provision of technical assistance to strengthen the Borrower’s public
raanagement in the following areas:

(a)

Education Evaluation and Administration:

(i) the monitoring and evaluation of various key programs, including the
accelerated learning programs, the expanded school day program, the
school improvement plans program, and in-service education program;
(ii) the carrying out of a study of the management of the education sector
as a whole within the Borrower’s territory, identifying key strengths and
weaknesses in the management system; (iii) the carrying out of a study of
education expenditures; and (iv) the implementation of an improved
monitoring system for the SEEL.

_6-
Soo

(b)

(c)

(d)

Tax Administration:

(i) the planning and carrying out of a selective property registration
exercise (recadastramento) in the urban areas to broaden the IPTU tax
base; (ii) the planning and carrying out of a property assessment exercise
to update the outdated property values, which in turn serve as the base of
calculation for IPTU and other Borrower’s taxes; (iii) the carrying out of
a communications campaign to facilitate planning and implementation of
the property assessrnent exercise referred to in (ii) above, and the
provision of assistaace to ensure that the recommendations of the
property assessment technical proposal are in line with the Borrower’s
legal framework; (iv) the development of a new tax management system,
which includes a cadastre and a module for follow up of non-tax active
debt; (v) the improvement of SEFIN e-services to facilitate voluntary tax
compliance, as well as the carrying out of a campaign to expand
automatic IPTU payrient through bank accounts; (vi) the development of
a management system for the Borrower’s attorney general’s office to
manage legal claims resulting from the collection of tax debt; and (vii)
the purchase of IT equipment for the Borrower’s Secretariat of Legal
Affairs (SAJ).

Public debt management:

(i) the carrying out of an in-depth diagnosis of debt management to
identify the system’s main deficiencies and preparation of terms of
reference for the design of a new information system; (ii) the
development of a debt management system; (ili) the design and
implementation of a training program for SEFIN staff working in debt
management; and (iv) the purchase of IT equipment for SEFIN’s debt
management unit.

Increasing efficiency of public expenditures:

(i) payroll management and human resources management, (11)
procurement; (iii) public financial management; and (iv) modernization
of EMPREL, through the following activities:

(A) the preparation of an in-depth diagnosis of human resources
management in the Borrower’s territory, particularly focusing on
improving payroll policy, the payroll system, and supporting the
Borrower in the design of a payroll audit; (B) the carrying out of
a payroll audit and the acquisition of management tools to
facilitate the execution of continuous controls once the audit

_7-
Gr Ny
+
f—

(c)

(f)

mentioned herein is carried out; (C) the establishment of a new
human resources management and payroll system, including
modules for payroll, human resources management and pension
management; (D) the provision of training for payroll
management personnel; (E) the acquisition of IT equipment for
the payroll management unit within the Borrower’s
Administration Secretariat and the General Comptroller’s
Secretariat; (F) the development of a procurement system to
enhance contract management, including the provision of
training anc. the acquisition of IT/office equipment for staff
working at the procurement unit within SEFIN; and (G) the
provision of support to comply with the Guarantor’s legislation
on accounting standards, including the provision of training, and
the acquisition of IT equipment for staff working at the
accounting unit within SEFIN, including EMPREL.

Municipal planning, results-based management, and Project
management:

(i) create and implement a strategic priorities management unit within
SEGESP, and develop indicators for these strategic priorities and link
said indicators to the Borrower’s annual budget; (ii) design and
implement a training, program in results-based management for managers
and key staff in various Borrower’s secretariats, including SEGESP; (ili)
carrying out of a reengineering and simplification process of several
management processes in key Borrower’s secretariats, and (iv) Project
management, including the hiring of key Project staff, the Independent
Verification Agency for the carrying out of technical audits, and
Operating Costs.

Urban mobility management:

(i) implementation of a traffic and transport integrated data center in
CTTU, which will merge data from existing traffic and transport
monitoring systems to improve more effective management of mobility
within the Borrower’s territory; and (ii) preparation of Urban Plans to
improve mobility in key areas of the Borrower’s territory, as well as
design of specific investments within those Urban Plans.
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

No later than two (2) months after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall create
and thereafter maintain, until the completion of the execution of the Project:

Section I.
A.
l.
(a)
(b)
B.
1.

an implementation unit within SEGESP, to be responsible for the overall
implementation of the Project (the “PIU’’). Such unit shall have staff in
adequate numbers and with qualifications and experience satisfactory to
the Bank including a Project coordinator, a deputy coordinator, a
procurement specialist, a financial management specialist, and other
personnel needed for the effective implementation of the Project, all as
set forth in the Project Operational Manual; and

a Project Consultative Committee, to be responsible for overseeing
implementation, monitoring and evaluation of all Project activities and
provide recommendations based on the review of the progress reports
and other relevant documents prepared for the Project, and with structure
and functions satisfactory to the Bank, as set forth in the Project

. Operational Manual.

‘Implementation Arrangements

The Borrower, through SEGE'SP, shall:

(a)

(b)

(c)

have all the Project :sxrocurement records and documentation for each
calendar year of the Project audited, in accordance with appropriate
procurement auditing principles by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank;

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, the procurement audit report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall have reasonably equested; and

furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said procurement

records and documentation and the procurement audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

-9-
 

nN

The Borrower, through SEGISP, shall:

(a) cause the Independent Verification Agency to carry out at least two
technical audits during Project implementation, particularly focused on
the compliance with the DLIs;

(b) furnish to the Bank 2s soon as available, but in any case not later than the
sixth Loan withdrawal and the eleventh Loan withdrawal, respectively,
the two audit reports of the Independent Verification Agency of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

(c) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said technical
audits and documentation as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.

The Borrower shall ensure that the Eligible Expenditure Programs shall comply
with the eligibility criteria and procedures set forth in the Project Operational
Manual.

The Borrower shall ensure taat the budget code number indicated in Schedule 4
to this Agreement shall conform to the Borrower’s annual budget law. The
Borrower and the Bank agree that such budget code number may change under
the Borrower’s budget law provided, however, that there is no change in the
corresponding EEP described in Schedule 4 of this Agreement and in the
underlying activities to be financed by the Bank under such EEP.

The Borrower, through SEGESP, and the Bank may jointly adjust, once every
year, the amounts assigned per budget code to the EEPs detailed in Schedule 4 to
this Agreement, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.

Prior to the sixth disbursement under Category (1) (as referred to in the Project
Operational Manual and additional instructions referred to in Section IV.A.1 of
this Schedule), the Borrower shall

(a) carry out a mid-term review with the Bank on the overall progress in the
execution of the Project and on the accomplishment of the Project,

(b) review whether any adjustments or replacement of the existing DLIs are
needed, and

(c) thereafter make the required adjustments, all in a manner acceptable to
the Bank.

-10-
An?

If, at any time, the Bank detzrmines that any portion of the Loan Proceeds was
used for items improperly procured in violation of Section III to this Schedule,
was not used for Eligible Expenditures or, in case of the Eligible Expenditure
Programs under Part | of the Project, was not supported by evidence of actual
spending by the Borrower under said Eligible Expenditure Programs and/or by
evidence of satisfaction of cther criteria set forth in this Agreement or in the
Project Operational Manual, the Borrower shall promptly refund any such
portion to the Bank as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.

Anti-Corruption

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

Safeguards

The Borrower shall, with the assistance of the pertinent Participating Entity,
implement the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Environmental
Management Framework (EMF) and those of each environmental management
plan as may be required as per the terms of the EMF, prepared by the Borrower
and approved by the Bank.

The Borrower shall ensure that Project activities do not involve any
Resettlement.

The Borrower, through SEGESP, shall ensure, and/or cause the Participating
Entities to ensure, that the terms of reference for any consultancy in respect of
any Project activity shall be satisfactory to the Bank following its review thereof
and, to that end, such terms of reference shall duly incorporate the requirements
of the applicable Bank Safeguards Policies, as applied to the advice conveyed
through such technical assistance.

Project Operational Manual.
The Borrower shall, with the assistance of the Participating Entities implement

the Project in accordance with a manual, satisfactory to the Bank (the Project
Operational Manual), which shall include, inter alia:

(a) the Performance Indicators;
(b) the procedures for the carrying out of monitoring and evaluation of the
Project;

(c) the detailed criteria fcr the monitoring of the DLIs;
-ll-
(d) the procurement and financial requirements of the Project;

(e) the roles and respons: bilities of each Participating Entity;

(f) the Environmental Management Framework;

(g) the Project chart of accounts and internal controls, reporting procedures

and the format of the Interim unaudited financial reports referred to in
Section II.B.2 of this Schedule; and .. oo.

(h) the procedures for clefining the 60% Rule Indicator. In case of any
conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and this
Agreement, the provision of this Agreement will prevail.

2. Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree in writing, the
Borrower shall not abrogate, amend, suspend, waive or otherwise fail to enforce
the Project Operational Manual or any provision thereof.

Section I. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. Project Reports

1, The Borrower, through SEGE'SP, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the Performance Indicators.
Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than 60 days after the end of the period covered
by each such report.

2. Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the Borrower,
through SEGESP, shall include the following information in each Project Report:

(a) the Borrower’s compliance with the DLIs;
(b) the updated Procurement Plan; and

(c) a section describing any condition which interferes or that could
potentially interfere with Project implementation, including any
environmental/social issues that may arise during Project
implementation.

3. For purposes of carrying out the technical audits referred to in Section I.B.2 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall, not later than eighteen months
(18) months after Effective Date, select and contract an entity, independent from

-12-

 
the Borrower (Independent Verification. Agency). with experience and
qualifications in education acceptable to the Bank, pursuant to the provisions of
Section III of this Schedule and in accordance with terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank.

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower,
through SEGESP, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than 60 days
after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for
the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower, through SEGESP, shall have its Financial Statements audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of
the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.

Section TI. Procurement

A.

l.

yoo

General

Goods, Works and Non-Consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and in accordance with
the provisions of this Schedule as the case may be.

Consultant Services. All cosultant services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines, and in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule, as the case
may be.

Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methois or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.

-13-
(
. i

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-
ConsultingServices

International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.

Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consulting
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and
non-consulting services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances
under which such methods may be used.

 
  
 
 
   
  

(a) National Competitive Bidding (including in respect of goods, non-consultant
services and works, convite, tomada de pregos and concorréncia set forth in
the Guarantor’s Law No. 8.666 of June 21, 1993, as well as procurement in
accordance with the method known as “pregdo eletrénico”, as provided in
the Guarantor’s Law No. 10.520, of July 17, 2002, under any e-procurement
system approved by the Bank), subject to the following additional procedure,
namely, that the bidding documents shall be acceptable to the Bank.

(b) Shoppin

(c) Direct Contracting

 
     

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table
specifies the methods of pzocurement, other than Quality and Cost-based
Selection, which may be usec! for consultants’ services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used.

Procurement Method
a) Selection based on Consultant’s Qualifications
(b) Quality-based Selection
(c) Least Cost Selection
d) Selection under a Fixed Budget
(e) Procedures set forth in Section V of the Consultants Guidelines for the
Selection of Individual Consultants
(f) Single Source Selection

-14-
D. Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

T1¢ Procurement Plan shail set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s
Pi; or Review. All other contracts shal! be subject to Post Review by the Bank.

Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. General

1. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions (Disbursement Letter) as the Bank shall specify by notice
to the Borrower (including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for
Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 3 below.

2. Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, withdrawals
of the Loan may be made as:
(a) reimbursements of expenditures for Parts 1 and 2 of the Project; or
(b) advances to the Borrower’s designated account identified in the
instructions referred to in said paragraph 1 in respect of Part 2 of the
Project.
3, The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be

financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.

  
   

      
   
  
 
   
 
 
 
  

        
   
  

    
  
 

     

  
 

   

Category Amount of the Loan Percentage of
Allocated Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) financed
; inclusive of taxes
(1) Eligible Expenditure 100,000,000 30% of aggregate EEP
Programs under Part 1 of expenditures

  

the Project
(2) Goods, consultants’
services, non-consulting
services, Training and

Operating Costs under

Part 2 of the Project
TOTAL AMOUNT

  

100%

   
 

30,000,000

 

130,000,000
-15-
di For the purposes of this Sect:..on the term:

(a) “Training” means «expenditures (other than for consultants’ services)
incurred in connection with the carrying out of training, seminars, and
workshops under the Project, including, inter alia: logistics, the
reasonable travel cost (including transportation and lodging), and per-
diem of the trainers and trainees, tuition fees, as well as training
materials; and |

(b) “Operating Costs” means the following management and supervision
costs, to the extent they would not have been incurred absent the Project,
including, inter alia: (i) maintenance of furniture and equipment; (ii)
rental of office space; and (iii) communication costs.

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. Notwithstanding the provisicns of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:

(a) from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the
Front-end Fee;

(b) for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed USD 20,000,000
equivalent may be made for payments made up to twelve months prior to
such date but on or after July 1, 2011, for Eligible Expenditures under
Category (1) and Category (2); and

(c) for payments made under Category (1) unless: (i) the relevant Project
Reports, as referred to in Section II.A.1. of this Schedule, shall have been
submitted to, and found satisfactory by, the Bank, in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Operational Manual and the additional
instructions referred to in Section IV.A.1 of this Schedule; and (ii) all
other conditions referred to in the Project Operational Manual and in the
additional instructions referred to in Section IV.A.1 of this Schedule
including, when applicable, compliance with the Disbursement-Linked
Indicators (for the respective semester as referred to in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement) have been met by the Borrower in a form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.

2. If the Bank has not received evidence of full compliance with the 60% Rule
Indicator (DLI #1) or with the quantitative DLIs (DLI #2 through DLI #8) listed
in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, in respect to any Loan withdrawal under
Category (1) other than the first Loan withdrawal (as referred to in the Project

-16-

 
5

Operational Manual and additional instructions referred to in Section IV.A.1 of
this Schedule), then:

(a) the Bank shall disburse the Loan amount of the corresponding
withdrawal attributab.e to each DLI, in proportion to the respective
degree of execution of each DLI and in accordance with additional
instructions referred to in Section IV.A.1 of this Schedule;

(b) the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a satisfactory time-
bound action plan to achieve such DLI or DLIs in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank; and

(c) as soon as the Bank is satisfied that said action plan has been
implemented, the Bank shall authorize the withdrawal of unwithdrawn
Loan amount by which the corresponding Loan withdrawal had been
reduced in the withdrawal period following the date of implementation of
said action plan, all as further detailed in the additional instructions
referred to in Section IV.A.1 of this Schedule.

If the Bank has not received evidence of full compliance with the qualitative
DLIs (DLI #9 through DLI #12) listed in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, with
respect to any Loan disbursement under Category (1) (as referred to in the
Project Operational Manual aad additional instructions referred to in Section
IV.A.1 of this Schedule), then:

(a) the Bank shall withheld the corresponding withdrawal attributable to
each DLI not complied with;

(b) the Borrower shall presare and furnish to the Bank a satisfactory time-
bound action plan to achieve such DLI or DLIs in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank; and

(c) as soon as the Bank: is satisfied that said action plan has been
implemented, the Bank shall authorize the withdrawal of unwithdrawn
Loan amount by whica the corresponding Loan withdrawal had been
reduced in the withdrawal period following the date of implementation of
said action plan, all as further detailed in the additional instructions
referred to in Section IV.A.1 of this Schedule.

In the event that the Bank has rot approved a full withdrawal by the Borrower of
the Loan proceeds under Categcry (1) (as referred to in the additional instructions
referred to in Section IV.A.1 of this Schedule), the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel the corresponding amount of the Loan after the last Loan

-17-
_ withdrawal (as referred to in the additional instructions referred to in Section
IV.A.1 of this Schedule).

5. The Closing Date is April 20, 2018. The Bank may grant an extension of the
Closing Date only after the Guarantor’s Ministry of Finance has informed the
Bank that it agrees with such extension.

-18-

 
SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total princij»al amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Priacipal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date. by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in parazraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

: Principal Payment Date Installment Share

Expressed as a Percentage

June 15, 2019
December 15, 2019
June 15, 2020
December 15, 2020
June 15, 2021
December 15, 2021
June 15, 2022
December 15, 2022
June 15, 2023
December 15, 2023
June 15, 2024
December 15,2024
June 15, 2025
December 15, 2025
June 15, 2026
December 15, 2026
June 15, 2027
December 15, 2027
June 15, 2028
December 15, 2028
June 15, 2029
December 15, 2029
June 15, 2030
December 15, 2030
June 15, 2031
-19-
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

   
  
    

December 15, 2031
; June 15, 2032
December 15, 2032
June 15, 2033
December 15, 2033
Z June 15, 2034
_ December 15, 2034
j June 15, 2035
_ December 15, 2035
June 15, 2036
; December 15, 2036
total

 

2. If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1
of this Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share’’)
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares fcr Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

3, (a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.

- 20 -

 
 

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued or. or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisioas of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination inrnediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

21 -
he

-CC7

SLO8SL‘°008 | 86S°Z68°SZT | 66T°ZHE'ETT | TISOCO'SIT | OPT'8HE ZIT | OSE PSO'SOT | 000°OEr'COT

Tooeorer =| TEl‘sor'z =| 19s‘toe’e =| Isp‘'zoz'z@ =| SO9LOI‘Z =| OSB'9TO'Z =| OOO'DES'T =|: 000°0FI
C9T9OBOLE | BSS*SOSPI | LIGOSS*ET | PLIESZEL | ILI TIL'TE | OOSESTZI | OOO'OPO'IT | H9'T08'6
SSELIS'SLO | 190°SOS‘*8OT | SES‘ZESEOI | SEETOESS | LIO‘Z8O°S6 | OST‘886'°06 | OOD'OLO'LE | 86S°LL9°06

SSCIZE'9 $S7 6S0'1 IPOEIOT |: 166696 IZ‘ 876 OSZ 888 000°0S8 000°ZIP
osrete'z | Z98°EIZ'Z

OLS‘0E0'90T

    
 
 

      

‘(SJUBID JOOYOS pue weis0lg
pjoIs_ osjog Sutpnjout)
sposou Sutures] [etoods
YIM sjuoprys Jo UOTsN[oOUr
[OOYSs JO} SUISTUeYSOUL

jo uonejuowofduly - 7817
‘uoyRONpsS pooypyIyo Aiea jo
Aytyenb jo yusuIoAoi1dul pue
ISBIDAOD JO OSRdIOU] - 6L1'Z

       

       

      

      
    

 

       
 

‘uolyeonpe Areuuitid Jo
Ayryenb Jo yuouloAoidun pue
ISVIOAOD JO BSLOIOU] — 8/ [7
"YIOMjou Tedrowunu
wolBONps su} Ul sessao0id
UOHOTUNUTIOS pue

LI Jo Ayyenb jo yuowoaoidun
pue osealou] — SZ['Z

“SAPIYICS) [BULOLULLLU LO}
so1orjod sutured ponutjuo0s
jo uolejuowduy - [01'Z
SUIMIVIT puy SUIYQIVIT 10} UOHVZIULSIC 9AN99IJJq — 9OZT

     

              

     

    

  

860°0C0‘ST €6S‘°LIV‘TZ 67S‘ SI1‘T 00¢*LZ0°T 000‘°0r6'I 8ZE°666 7

      

 

SsUIvISO1g pue apo, Jospng

(Sy ur possordx 7}
sumvIso1g danjIpusdxy s1qIs1q7
bv WINGAUHOS

oe Neg
an
-€C-

     

 

OSEOLTLOF'T | 6LSO9TLEZ | 9T9°EPO'LZZ | 619°99T‘LIZ | OF9'OT6'LOZ | OSS*LS6'S6T | 000O6E OG6T | OFC IPP'SS8T TVIOL
é é ¢ é 6 € é é
66¢°960°9 OTL‘ILO'T Poser COV TR6 Zrl6£6 00L°868 000°098 7L6 6IE Sven |

“SOTOT[Od syIOds
66>°960°9 9ILILO‘T 99¢°SZ0'I COP 186 Trl 6€6 00L*868 000°098 TLO6IE pue uoyeonpe jo uolstArodns
: pue WONeUIpIOOD - SEZ
SEL6PE'OES | DEL‘*ZETLE

sa1og yedprmny, woHvInpy 94} Jo juowaseury] — OTTZ

ZOSOLP'ES | 6ZHISS6L | OSL‘TPPOL | OOOOST‘EL

SEL°OPT9ES | 9EL‘ZTETLS | ZOC'OLHES | 6ZOT886L | OSLIPHOL | OODOST*EL
jo yuouidojaaoq - LOT'Z
sjuspnys jednrmny] 94} 0} IdUBISISSY [V1I0S — PIZI

SEPsoTPZI | 6ZS‘°E90°OZ | 6PSEGT6T | SLL‘ZLEST | COOTSS*LI | OOS*PZSOT | OOOTOOT°OT | Z8PEZTOT Emons.
“OINVONYseYUl UoTeoNps
L6v'6ES‘S8 OZ9'ZESEL | OSO'OEZTEL | Pr6‘999'TI | SLP'IZI‘ZI | OOS66S‘IIT | OOOOOTSIT | O00'Z9G‘OI | [edlorunu oy) Jo soURUSIUTeUT
pue uoneTIqeyoy — [¢€1°Z
"soljadns

OF6'SPL‘SE O16‘0E7‘9 €6S‘°796'S IEB°SOL‘s SZI‘09P'S 000°S7Z‘S 000°000‘S ZRP OLS

pue yuouldinbo ‘oinjruiny
woyvonp7y Ayyeng 10} yroddng 3aysayyy -LO7E |

              

 

 

  

      

 

 

 

 

    

      

   

       
   

                    

000°000°0L | TZE"L96'S9 joroiqus’
- ‘uoreonpe yedriorunu oy}

Io} supisoid Areyuowsjddns

 

       

OOO‘OOO'OL | ZZE°L96°S9

  

   

         
 

 

[OOS JO UOISIAOI_ - 8T1'T
mor T10Z suIvISOIg pue spoD JeSpng

 

 
“PC-

 

    

sopels pue seore yoolqns oures oy} JO} sv
ysvo] 1@ poyeadas syuouissassy (11)

        

[eas] Areuruid ou} ye yUOUSsSasse SUTUTBST 10} WI9}SAS
me} dn-Moy]]O} [eUOTdaI 9109

oy) Woy ue, JUoWMASeURY] [OOWSS # UO dn-MoT]Oy
ONPUIOISAS POAIIO9I Je} STOOYSS JO JOQUITIN
SUTUTET} SOIAIOS-UT PSAIOIOI
oyM TONeoNps [eJVoWepUNy Ul SIOJUTIPIOOD
jeo1So8epad pur ‘sIojooNp ‘siayous} Jo odeyUIOIE
SUMMTCI] SOIAIOS-UI
PoATooos SAB OGM sTeUOIssojold YO_q Jo Jsquinn’
sumeisoid SUILINS] poelopa00R

Ul paT[OIUs ¢-| SepeIH Ul syuepnys Jo JoqUInNN,
uoneiypiqeyos

nammnhar naatanal Ie (JoquINU PUODaS) Spsou
Ayuoud pue (19quinu ysIIJ) spoou AoUaZIOUIS YIM
SOTJTIOVJ UOTLONPS plo Aiea [je Jo adejUSdIOg
wieIs0id Avp

[OOYSs pepus)xo UI paTforus s}uopNys Jo JoquNN
Wieisolg yuoudoyaaag piryD Ayeq
[B101N9C-NIN| 9} Ul po[[omue UarpyTyd JO JaquinN|
yuods
SAA JOy UoNLooTTe ya3pnq sedoisse Jo odvjuooINg

$]03.1¥], pue suyaseg — (S]’[q) S10; vIIpuy payUry] yUoMesANgsigT

 

 

 

 

 

 

      

 
 
    

 

      
 
 

            
    

    

a
Cs

Vv
Le
Le
po

     

  

v10C-0¢-90
p Ja}saul3g

CLO7-1E-CI
€ 19}SaTI9S

£107-0£-90
Z 19}SIUIIS

TLOT-1E-Cl
| Ja}samas

LL0Z-Te-Z1
auTjaseg

  
   

  

§ WINGUHDS

 
oa.

-SC-

 

WIeId0Id Aep JOOYIS popuayxs
UI poTjorus syuSprys Jo JoquInN,
Wviso01g yusuIdo[sA0q]

PINTO Apreg [er0}99¢-nyNY|
SY] Ul pa][OIWs UsIP]IYD Jo JoquinNy
yuods sqaq Io} UoNRdoT[e
yospnq ojedoI1d3e Jo 93eIUS0INg

‘poysnes st yey} sAoge (Tt) pur (I) “() opun poyst] eLa}LI9 oy} Jo Yous
IO} popleme SI JUIOd [eUOHIppe suo pue WoUIssosse Sy) JO UOTE}UOWA[duUM Jo] popseMe ST UIOd UO :SMOTI[O} SE POUTULIO}Ap SI JOJLOIPU YVWS OU} OJ 109s sy, ,
‘sonnag sunediore
JUSIaTJIp UI syutod [es0} Say) pure “Istpetoods
jUoteSseueM yerouRUTy ‘JsITeroods yuoUTSO.mMd0I1d
‘royeUIp1009 Ayndop jse9] Je :pouiod uorneyouos[ dul
yoofoig oy} SuLinp jjeis Aoy UreyUAIep]

    

 

    

    

 
 
    

    

    

    

L102-0€-90
QO] J9jsomles

9107-1 ¢-ZI
6 Ja}saules

9107-0€-90
g 19}soulaS

STOC-1t-cl
L 4J8]saulag

¢102-0€-90
9 13}SIUIIS

vIO?-IC-ZI
§ Id}saUaS

 
 
  
  

  
  

rid

 

  

 

 

polorg om}
Jo (p) 7ueg um

YIOj Jos se yuRg
SSUIARS [eTUDIOd Aq poaoidde

jo VONneoTnUapI wi9}sAs [jo1Aed
pure yipne jjoiAed MOU pu yipne
jo uonsrduo0s) -- | ]jorAed Io} SYOL -- - juouroseueul [josAed Jo Aousloiyyq II
yooloig ou}
JO (Q) Teg
YUOoj Jos se Yueg
oy} Aq poaoidde
[ewonouny jUDUISSossRol
ANF WONd9T[OS Ayrodoid
ALdJ JO} w93sAs yno ALES W1d3sAS
“4 POSEG-GOM MON | OF MY TOF SIO | 4 7 TONB ASTUTE xB} S TaMoLIog amy jo Ayengd | Ol

P107-0£-90 elOc-Te-cl €10c-0£-90 CLOC-Ie-Cl Tl0¢-1e-cl

 

p Jd}soulss ¢ 1a}sautes Z 1d}saMIs | Jaj}soures auraseg
**

-Q¢-

          
 

       

 

JUSUISSISSESI
Ayiodoid jo aon
-eyuoway du]

yUDUUSSossPeal
Ayzodoid om}
jo uonojduro;

          

wi9}sAs UOT}eASTUTUTpe
XP] S JOMOLIOg 3} JO Ayjend
sopeld pure svole
yoolqns oures ay} Joy sIBOA ¢ AOA
Q0U0 4Sed] 1B payeadal syuoUssossy (IIT)
SUONLIO] OTYde1s008 JO ‘TeInI/ueqi
‘rapuod Aq powodal vjeq (I)

    
                 

  

   

CUVWS) 1949]

9Y} Ie JWOMISsOsse SUTUILDT JOJ wa}sk¢

 

 

      
       

9109 94} Woy uel g juomoseuey]
ooyss B uo dn-moT[O} ONeUIA}sAs
POATSOII VY} SPOOYOS JO JOquINN

SUIUIEN IOIAIJOS-Ul
PdAls001 OYM WOTJLONpe [eJUoMepuNy
Ul sIoJeUIpI009 Jeo1doSepad
— %C8 -- %78 -- %08 pure ‘soap ‘sIoyoRs} JO odvjUIIINg L

  

SUTLLIVS] PO}eIs[9908 UI po[[osus
C-] SOpeiyH Ut sJTepNys Jo JoquINN’

    

     

      

      

       

        

         

        

uone}iqeyor
pomnbar poatesel yeq} (Joquinu
%08 %08 %08 puoses) spssu Ayord pue (doquinu
ISNJ) spoou ADUSSIOUIS YIM SOTIIOBJ
—_ %NNI -- %0OT -- %OOI | woNEonps piryo Aiwa [Je Jo oseyUsOIEd b
L107-0£-90 9102-1 €-cl 9107-0£-90 S10C-1¢-Cl SLUC-UL-90 | ViUC-it-Zi |
OT 193S80UIaS 6 19}s3Ul9¢ § 13}S9T13S L Aaysamlas 9 13}S9UIS ¢ 1a}s9UI8S S10}¥sIpuy | 1d

  
 

A][ny utaisAs
yordcd MSN

9107-0€-90
g 19}saulaS

9107-1 e-T1
6 19}saulaS

L10C-0£-90

SIOZ-1E-ZI
L A9jsaulas

 

QJ 1a}saua¢

“LC-

Sox
woryyrar

OL $a Ise] 12
jo Ayyedroranuz
oT} 0}

SSuUIARS TenuUe
durjeroues
‘poynours, duit
ore

ssulpuy jipne
[Jo1Aed ssorppe
0] somsvoul
DATIOOLIOD

¢10Z-0€-90
Q 19}S9UI9S

 

‘powstyes st Jey} aAoge (IT) pue (11) “(1) JopUN psyst] BLIOILIO oy} JO YOR OF popreMme
SI JUIOd [euOTIppe sUO pUe ‘yUoUISsosse 9) JO UONEJUOWS|duN JO} popIeMe St JUTOd DUO :SsMOT[OF SB POUTULIOJOp SI JOJOIPUL YAWINS Sf} JOF 9109S SUL ,
‘sanju sunedionied

JUSIOJJIp Ul syutod [eso] oo}

pue ‘ystye1sods yuoursseueUl [eloueUly
‘ystTetoods yuouromoold ‘ioyeUIpI00D
Ayndag jsea] 38 :pouied uoreyuouley dunt
pyoafoig 94) SuLmp jye}s AOY UreyUTeY]

vplOc-te-7l
S 19}SauIaS
N
oe

APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

1.

10.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corrurtion in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006, and revised in January 2011.

“Bank Safeguards Policies” means the Bank’s operational policies and
procedures set forth in the Bank’s Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04,
4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37, 7.50 and 7.60 as said manual is published under

www. WorldBank.org/opmanual.

“Bolsa Escola Program” means Programa Bolsa Escola, the Borrower’s program
created through Lei 16.702/97 which supplements the Guarantor’s Bolsa Familia
Program and aims to improve learning for the poorest children by conditioning
cash transfers to families on regular student school attendance, as well as
providing social services to beneficiary families.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.

“CMEIs” means Centros Municipais de Educacdao Infantil, the Borrower’s early
child education centers for children between the ages of 0 and 5 years old.

“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“CTTU” means Companhia de Transito e Transporte Urbano, the Borrower’s
Urban Transport and Traffic Company, as existing and operating under the
Borrower’s Law n° 16.534, dated November 24, 1999, or its sucessor or
sucessors thereto acceptable to the Bank.

“Disbursement-Linked Indicator” or “DLI”’ means any of the indicators set forth
in Schedule 5 of this Agreement.

“ECE” means early child education (children ages 0 to 5).

“Eligible Expenditure Progtem” or “EEP” means a set of defined investment and
selected recurrent expenditures (including works, goods, non-consulting services,
consultants’ services, operating and maintenance costs, student grants - Bolsa
Escola Program - and School Grants), incurred by the Borrower under the budget
lines set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement (and thus said set of expenditures

-28-
 

11

12.

14.

15.

16.

18.

constitute a subset of the Eligible Expenditures defined in the General
Conditions).

“EMPREL” means Empresa Municipal de Informatica, the Borrower’s
Municipal Information Technology Company, as existing and operating under
the Borrower’s Law n° 10.206, dated December 9, 1969, or its sucessor or
sucessors thereto acceptable to the Bank.

“Environmental Management Framework” or “EMF” means the framework
prepared by the Borrower, dated September 16, 2011, acceptable to the Bank,
published and available to the public as of September 23, 2011, at
www.recife.pe.gov.br, as the same may be updated from time to time with the
prior written agreement of the i3ank, included in the Project Operational Manual,
which sets out the environmental protection measures in respect of the Project,
including: (a) the guidelines to be followed in connection with the finding of
cultural property; (b) the guidelines for the carrying out of environmental
assessments under the Project and the preparation of the pertinent environmental
management plans; and (c) the procedures for the environmental supervision,
monitoring and evaluation of thz Project.

"Fundamental Education" consists of primary education and lower secondary
education (children ages 6-14).

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012.

“Independent Verification Agency” means the entity referred to in Section II.A.3
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“IPTU” means Jmposto Predial e Territorial Urbano, the Borrower’s Urban
Land and Property Tax.

“TT” means information technology.

“Multi Sectoral Early Child Development Program” means the Borrower’s
program as described in the publication entitled Politicas Integradas para a
Primeria Infancia dated March: 2012: (i) setting forth policies integrated across
sectors; and (ii) fostering individualized attention either at home or in existing
buildings in the Borrower’s adruinistrative region, attending children between the
ages of 0 and 5 years.

“Participating Entity” means, collectively, SEGESP, SEEL, SEFIN, SADGP and
SSP.

-29-
oa vw»

¢N/
es

2().

26),

27,

28.

25.

“Performance Indicators” means the Project monitoring and evaluation indicators
set forth in the Project Operational Manual.

“PIU” or “Project Implementing Unit” means Unidade de Implementagao do
Projeto, the unit referred to in Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits” datec! January 2011.

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project,
dated April 17, 2012, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.2++ of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in eccordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.

“Project Consultative Committee” means the committee referred to in Section
I.A.(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Project Operational Manual” means the manual dated March 27, 2012, and
referred to in Section I.E.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement as the same may be
amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.

“R$” means Brazilian Reais, the Borrower’s currency.

“Resettlement” means the impact of: (i) an involuntary taking of land under the
Project, which taking causes «affected persons to have their: (a) income source or
means of livelihood adversely affected (whether or not the affected persons must
move to another location); or (b) right, title or interest in any house, land
(including premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable
asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (c) access to
productive assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (d) business,
occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily
or permanently; or (ii) an involuntary restriction of access to natural resources in
legally designated parks and protected areas (including reserves) which causes an
adverse impact on the livelihoods of the affected persons.

“SADGP” means Secretaria de Administragdo e Gestao de Pessoas, the
Borrower’s Secretariat of Putlic Administration and Personnel Management, or
its sucessor or sucessors thereto acceptable to the Bank.

“School Grants” means suprimento individual para escolas — Ensino
Fundamental - e suprimento individual para pré-escolas, creches, e CMEIs —
Educacdao Infantil, the Borrower’s non-reimbursable transfers to schools for the
carrying out of minor works, goods, consultants’ services and recurrent costs
incurred on an emergency basis as determined by the Borrower in accordance
with criteria acceptable to the Bank.

-30-
v¥

CS)

30.

31.

32.

33.

34.

35.

36.

37.

“School Management Plans” means any of the ECE centers’ or Fundamental
Education schools’ management plans (Plano de Desenvolvimento Escolar), to
improve student learning and growth.

“SEEL” means Secretaria ce Educagdo, Esporte e Lazer, the Borrower’s
Secretariat of Education, or its sucessor or sucessors thereto acceptable to the
Bank.

“SEFIN” means the Secretaria de Financas, the Borrower’s Secretariat of
Finance, or its sucessor or sucessors thereto acceptable to the Bank.

“SEGESP” means Secretaria I’special de Gestao e Planejamento, the Borrower’s
Special Secretariat of Management and Planning, or its sucessor or sucessors
thereto acceptable to the Bank.

“SMAR” means Sistema Municipal de Avaliacdo de Rede, the Borrower’s
system of student evaluation.

“SSP” means Secretaria de sservicos Publicos, the Borrower’s Secretariat of
Public Services, or its sucessor or sucessors thereto acceptable to the Bank.

“Urban Plan” means any of tae Borrower’s urban plans, setting forth specific
steps and investments to improve mobility and urban development in a particular
area, all within the Borrower’s territory.

“60% Rule Indicator” means <. condition to be met by the Borrower for certain
Loan withdrawals to take place, namely that for the aggregate amount of the EEP
there has been spent in the previous 12-month period (January — December) to
the pertinent Loan withdrawal, 60% of the budgeted EEP funds (specified in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement) “or said period under Part 1 of the Project.

-3]-
