Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

~~ wmenee*

| OFFICIAL

 

DOCUMENTS °

Fe Pe

& We ya rE

LOAN NUMBER 8177-BR

Loan Agreement

(Bahia Socio Economic Development for Inclusive Growth Development Policy
Loan
Programa de Inclusdo e D.2senvolvimento Socioeconémico do Estado da Bahia -
PROINCLUSAO)

between

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

and

STATE OF BAHIA

Datec Duumbu A¥ , 2012
LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated Diol 48 , 2012, entered into between the
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(“Bank”) and the STATE OF BAHIA (“Borrower”) for the purpose of providing
financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).

WHEREAS (A) The Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis of,
inter alia: (a) the actions already taken, or to be taken, by the Borrower under the
Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; (b) the
Guarantor’s maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework; and (c) the
Borrower’s maintenance of: (1) an appropriate expenditure program; (ii) sustainable debt;
and (111) appropriate fiscal arrangements with the Guarantor.

WHEREAS (B) the Borrower has informed the Bank that, upon deposit by the
Bank of the proceeds of the Loan (on the terms set forth in Section II of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement and for purposes of supporting the Program) into an account to be
designated by the Borrower, the Borrower’s financial capacity will be strengthened by
expanding its fiscal space to finance further public investments in accordance with the
Borrower’s budgetary laws.

The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN

2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of seven hundred million Dollars
($700,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement (“Loan’’).

2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. The Borrower’s
2

4

«.06.

“)

2.03.

05.

07.

representative for purpose of taking any action required or permitted to be taken
pursuant to this Sectior: is its Secretary of Finance.

The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%), of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
not later then sixty days after the Effective Date.

The interest payable by the: Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Referenc: Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the Ger.eral Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall insteal be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are: March 15 and September 15 in each year.

The princizal amoun' of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

(a) The Borrower may at any time, in each case with prior non-objection of
the Guarantor. through the Secretariat of the National Treasury of the
Guarantor’s IMinistry of Finance, request any of the following
Co.versions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt
management: |i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an
Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to:
(A> all or any dortion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any »ortion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Sprezd to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
set:ing of limi:s on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.

(b) Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined

 
sO,

2.08.

3.01.

4.01.

in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this
Article If as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.

ARTICLE Ill — PROGRAM

The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:

(a)

(b)

the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of
either party, exchange views on: (i) the Guarantor’s macroeconomic
policy framework; (ii) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate
expenditure program, sustainable debt, and appropriate fiscal
arrangements with the Guarantor; and (iii) the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program and the actions specified in Section I of
Schedule | to this Agreement;

prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request; and

without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation
that would have the effect of materially: (i) impairing the Borrower’s
ability to maintain an appropriate expenditure program, sustainable debt,
and/or appropriate fiscal arrangements with the Guarantor; or
(ii) reversing the objectives of the Program or any action taken under the
Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:

(a)

A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program,
or a significant part of it, will be carried out.
6.01.

6.02.

(b)

An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted by the Borrower
to reverse any action or policy under the Program, including any action
listed in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, in a manner that
would, in the »pinion of the Bank, adversely affect the achievement of
the objectives of the Program.

ARTICLE V -— EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Additional Condit ons of Effectiveness consist of the following:

(a)

(b)

The Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in
carrying out the Program and with the adequacy of the Guarantor’s
mavroeconomic policy framework.

That the Bank is satisfied with the Borrower’s maintenance of: (i) an
appropriate expenditure program; (11) sustainable debt; and
(111) appropriat2 fiscal arrangements with the Guarantor.

The Additional Legal latter consists of the following, namely, that the Loan has
been registered with the Guarantor’s Central Bank.

The Effectiveness Deidline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement, but in no case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s
approval of the Loan which expire on December 26, 2013.

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

The Borrower’s Representative is its Secretary of Finance.

The Borrower’s Address is:

Avenida Luiz Viana Filho
Segunda Avenida, 260

Centro Adniinistrativo da Bahia
Salvador, Bahia — 417¢.5-0C0

Brazil

Facsimile: (55-71) 3115-882

 
4O>

6.03.

With copy to:

Secretaria do Planejamento
Avenida Luiz Viana Filho
Segunda Avenida, 250

Centro Administrativo da Bahia
Salvador Bahia — 41745-003
Brazil

Facsimile: (55-71) 3115-3950

The Bank’s Address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145(MCI)

AGREED at Prong fudinabine, Republic of Prog as of the

day and year first above written.

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

» lbh

Authorized Representative

STATE OF BAHIA

By LT Is = t-

Authorized Representative
Section I.

SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds

Actions unde! the Program

A. Actions Taken Under the Program for the First Withdrawal Tranche. The
actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:

I. Improving Social and Productive Inclusion (Equity)

(a)

(b)

(c)

Education

The Borrower has edopted the Pacto pela Educagdao and is implementing
said pact with Participating Municipalities within its territory, as
evidenced by:

(i) the Borrcwer’s Decree No. 12.792, dated April 28, 2011,
publislied in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on April 29, 2011;
and

) an ofizio .ssued by the Borrower’s Secretary of Education:
(A) reporting on the number of Participating Municipalities that
have adhered to the Pacto pela Educacdo in calendar year 2011;
and (I) transmitting, as a sample, copies of five cooperation
agreenients entered into between the Borrower, represented by
its Secretary of Education, and each of the five Participating
Municipalities.

Health

The Borrower has, through its Secretariat of Health, adopted statewide
stretegies, guidelines and standards on primary health care activities
within its terri ory, as evidenced by Resolution CIB No. 085/2012, dated
March 22, 2112, issued by the Borrower’s Secretariat of Health,
published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on March 23, 2012.

Productive Inclusion

The Borrower has adopted a legal framework to foster economic
development in selected regions within its territory:

(1) by facilitating the renegotiation of rural debts acquired by small
farmeis (residing in municipalities with less than 20,000
inhabi:ants located in the semi-arid region of the Borrower’s

 
territory) through PRONAF, as evidenced by the Borrower’s
Law No. 12.362, dated November 21,2011, published in the
Borrower’s Official Gazette on November 22, 2011;

(ii) through the adoption of the Vida Melhor, as evidenced by the
Borrower’s Decree No. 13.167, dated August 11,2011,
published in the  Borrower’s Official Gazette on
August 12, 2011; and

(111) by establishing a statewide policy and program for technical
assistance and rural extension for family agriculture, as
evidenced by the Borrower’s Law No. 12.372, dated December
23, 2011, published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette, dated
December 24 and 25, 2011.

(d) Social Inclusion

The Borrower, through its Secretariat of Social Development, has
approved co-financing for the delivery of social assistance services and
benefits in its Municipalities, as evidenced by:

(i) the Borrower’s Resolution No. 001/2012, dated
January 30, 2012, published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette
on March 10 and 11, 2012; and

(11) an oficio from the Borrower’s Secretariat of Social Development
reporting on the implementation of such co-financing activities
in 50 municipalities within the Borrower’s territory selected
based on the lowest IGD-M.

(e) Gender
The Borrower has:

(1) established the Secretariat for Women Affairs, as evidenced by
the Borrower’s Law No. 12.212, dated May 4, 2011, published
in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on May 5, 2011; and

(ii) adopted the Plano Plurianual 2012/2015 including two public
policy programs on gender to be carried out by the Secretariat
for Women Affairs with a total aggregate value of approximately
thirteen million Reais (R$13.000.000,00), as evidenced by the
Borrower’s Law No. 12.504, dated December 29, 2011,
published in the  Borrower’s Official Gazette on
December 30, 2011.

 
B.

Developing Social, PI ysical, and Institutional Infrastructure for Sustainable
Development (Efficiency)

Disaster Risk Management

The Borrower has established a coordinating committee consisting of
representatives from ‘he Borrower’s Casa Civil and selected secretariats to
manage emergency response actions to drought occurring within the Borrower’s
territory, as evidenced by the Borrower’s Decree No. 13.796, dated
March 21,2012, putlished in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on
March 22, 2012.

Strengthening Public Sector Management (Governance)
Public Private Partnerships

The Borrower has adopted procedures for managing expressions of interest in
public-private partners 1ip projects under the jurisdiction of the Borrower’s public
administration, as ev denced by the Borrower’s Decree No. 12.653, dated
February 28, 2011, published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on
March ], 2011.

Actions tao be Taken Under the Program for the Second Withdrawal
Tranche. The actions to be taken by the Borrower under the Program include
the following:

Improving Social and Productive Inclusion (Equity)
(a) Education
The Borrower, through its Secretariat of Education, has:

(i) monitored the implementation impact of the Pacto pela
Educazdo in Participating Municipalities by: (A) evaluating test
results of standardized evaluation provided to second-grade
students in the subject matter of Portuguese language; and
(B) recording the passing rate of second-grade students, as
eviderced by a report issued by the Borrower’s Secretariat of
Educa:ion, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and

(ii) (A) disseminated to each school their respective results from the
impletnentation impact of the Pacto pela Educagdo;
(B) identified the 25% least performing Participating
Municipalities based on such results; and (C) provided learning

 
(b) Health

materials and additional pedagogical support to the schools
located in the 25% least performing Participating Municipalities,
as evidenced by an oficio issued by the Borrower’s Secretariat of
Education, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower has adopted a statewide policy on primary health care
within its territory, as evidence by a decree issued by the Borrower, in
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.

(c) Crime and Violence Prevention

The Borrower has adopted and implemented:

(i)

(ii)

a strategic action plan aimed at improving its institutional
capacity to target and implement social crime and violence
prevention programs in Municipalities prioritized by Pacto pela
Vida; and

a strategic plan to strengthen its crime and violence data
collection, management and analysis system;

as evidenced by a copy of each of said plans and a report on the
implementation of said plans issued by the Borrower, all in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank.

Developing Social, Physical, and Institutional Infrastructure for Sustainable
Development (Efficiency)

(a) Disaster Risk Management

The Borrower has:

(i)

(A) submitted to its Legislative Assembly, for approval thereby,
a draft law, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, to
adopt; or (B) adopted, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank, through the Borrower’s executive branch, as the case may
be, a regulatory framework; for re-structuring its coordinating
body for disaster risk management, including the establishment
of regional units with trained staff and equipment, as evidenced
by a Borrower’s letter (mensagem) duly received by the
Legislative Assembly or a copy of said regulatory framework
established through the Borrower’s executive branch, as the case
may be, all in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank;
(ii) (A) ccmpleted pilot risk-mappings of two (2) sites located in the
metropolitzn area of the Borrower’s capital, as evidenced by a
report issued by the Borrower’s coordinating body referred to in
(i) (A) above, which shall include the maps produced as part of
such rilot risk-mapping, all in form and substance satisfactory to
the Bank; and

(B) crated and implemented a program to support the capacity
of volunteer brigades, as evidenced by the necessary measures
adopted by the Borrower, all in form and substance satisfactory

to the Bank.

(b) Transport
The Borrower has established a logistics advisory committee aimed at
coordinating r2levant stakeholders involved in transport and logistics in
the Borrower’ ; territory and said committee is operational, as evidenced
by a decree issued by the Borrower and a report on the implementation
prcgress of stch committee, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank.

3. Strengthening Public Sector Management (Governance)
(a) Planning and Budgeting

The Borrowe’ has: (i) submitted to its Legislative Assembly, for
approval thereby, « draft law, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank, to establish; or (11) established, in form and substance satisfactory
to ‘he Bank, tirough the Borrower’s executive branch, as the case may
be, a regulatory franework; for developing the Borrower’s annual budget
prcposals in accordance with procedures aimed at (A) ensuring
alignment of t1e Borrower’s annual budget with its strategic priorities in
the medium term, and (B) reducing ad hoc modifications to the
Borrower’s annual budget during execution, as evidenced by a
Borrower’s letter (nensagem) duly received by the Legislative Assembly
or a copy cf said regulatory framework established through the
Borrower’s executive branch, as the case may be, all in form and
substance satis factory to the Bank.

_10-
(b) Financial and Human Resource Management
The Borrower has:

(i) (A) submitted to its Legislative Assembly, for approval thereby,
a draft law, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, to
adopt; or (B) adopted, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank, through the Borrower’s executive branch, as the case may
be; an accrual based International Public Sector Accounting
Standards for the Borrower’s accounting and reporting purposes,
as evidenced by a Borrower’s letter (mensagem) duly received
by the Legislative Assembly or a copy of said adoption by the
Borrower’s executive branch, as the case may be, all in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank; and

(11) (A) submitted to its Legislative Assembly, for approval thereby,
a draft law, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, to
adopt; or (B) adopted, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank, through the Borrower’s executive branch, as the case may
be, a regulatory framework; for implementing management
processes for human resources aimed at allowing workforce
planning, career management and extension of merit based
promotion performance management systems, as evidenced by a
Borrower’s letter (mensagem) duly received by the Legislative
Assembly or a copy of said regulatory framework established
through the Borrower’s executive branch, as the case may be, all
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.

(c) Tax Administration

The Borrower has enhanced efficiency in tax revenue collection in the
Borrower’s territory by cross-checking the Borrower's information on
taxpayer’s donations, inheritances and assets against data on said
information from the Guarantor's Ministry of Finance to facilitate the
identification of fiscal evasion related to taxes on said donations,
inheritances and assets, and has taken action to address fiscal evasion
related to said taxes, as evidenced by a report issued by SEFAZ assessing
the results of such cross-checking and indicating the impact of the
actions taken by the Borrower, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank.

-ll-
Section I. Availability 0° Loan Proceeds

A.

n>

 

General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
may specifv by notice o the Borrower.

Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan is allocated in two withdrawal
tranches, from which tie Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds.
The allocat:on of the ainourits of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:

Allocatic ns Amount of the Loan
Allocated
expressed in Dollars

  
   

(2) Second Withdraw il Tranche 350,000,000
TOTAL AMOUNT _| 700,000,000

(1) First Withdrawal ‘Tranche 350,000,000

 

Payment of Front-end Fee. No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan
Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee.

Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.

No withdrawal shall be made of the First Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is
satisfied:

(a) with the Guarentor s maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy
framework;
(b) with the Bortower’s maintenance of: (i) an appropriate expenditure

program; (ii) sustainable debt; and (iii) appropriate fiscal arrangements
with the Guarantor; and

(c) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out Part A of
Section I of this Schedule.

No withdrawal shall be: made of the Second Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank
is satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01(a) and (b) of
this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank:

(a) with the Guar. ntor’s maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy
framework;

-12-

 
 

(b) with the Borrower’s maintenance of: (i) an appropriate expenditure
program; (ii) sustainable debt; and (111) appropriate fiscal arrangements
with the Guarantor;

(c) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program;
and

(d) that the actions described in Part B of Section I of this Schedule have
been taken.

If, after this exchange of views, the Bank is not so satisfied with respect to
paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and/or (d) above, it may give notice to the Borrower to
that effect and, if within ninety (90) days after the notice the Bank still is not so
satisfied with respect to any of said paragraphs, then the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel all or any part of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:

all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and

the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s budget
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines
at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank,
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.

Closing Date. The Closing Date is December 31, 2014.

-13-
SCHEDULE 2

Amortization Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the tota prircipal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repavable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bark by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Princisal Paymerit Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such resayadle amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to n paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

Principal Installment Share
Payment Date Expressed as a Percentage
15 March 2010 |

15 September 2C13 _ 0.04
15 March 2014) 0.04
15 September 2014 _ 0.12

15 March 2015)
15 September 2€ 15
15 March 2016

15 September 2016 _
15 March 2017

15 September 2(17 _
15 March 2018

15 September 2018 |
15 March 2019

15 September 2019 _
15 March 202) |

15 September 2020 |
15 March 202 |

15 September 2021
15 March 202”? 2.06

15 September 2022 | 2.06
15 March 2023 2.06
15 September 2023 _ 2.06
15 March 202+
15-September 2024
15 March 202) __

 

 

NINN —\|> DOS Popeye yoyolye lel oS
Cro; o Ole O1O lOO] WO] OPyO]— | | S
ONIN ON tad | Go pee ee | ee | ee | ee | et eee |] KT KO] BO] DO f

_14-
   
   
 

    

 
 
 
 

      
   
     

15 September 2039

    
 
 
  

  
 
 
 

15 March 2041
15-September 2041

15 March 2042

 

2. If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

€)) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1
of this Schedule.

-15-

 
(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal ir amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph | of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”)
and the denoninator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amunts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts refered to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion ay plies.

(a) Arnounts of tte Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.

(b) Notwithstand ng the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time he Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issuec on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals riade after the adoption of such billing system.

Notwithstanding the srovisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency ‘Conversion of a! or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any P-incipal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, stall be determired by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

If the Witadrawn Lozn Bzlance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currercy, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.

-16-
APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions
1. “Bolsa Familia” means the Guarantor’s program of direct income transfer with

conditionalities aimed at benefiting families in poverty and extreme poverty and
established by the Guarantor’s Law No. 10.836, dated January 9, 2004, published
in the Guarantor’s Diario Oficial on January 12, 2004.

2. “CadUnico” means the Guarantor’s single registry for social programs aimed at
selecting beneficiaries and integrating the Guarantor’s social programs,
established by the Guarantor’s Decree No. 6.135, dated June 26, 2007, published
in the Guarantor’s Official Gazette on June 27, 2007.

3, “Casa Civil” means the Borrower’s Chief of Staff.
4. “Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure:
(a) for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or

international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
or grant;

(b) for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the
Borrower:

   
   
 

Description of Item
Alcoholic beverages

Tobacco, un-
manufactured, tobacco
refuse
Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes

 
 
    
   

   
 
     
 
 
 
 

  

Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked

    

-17-

 
er
j

(c)

(d)

(f)

718 718.7 Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear
reactors

728 728.43

897 897.3 Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or
silversmiths’ wares
_ (including set gems)

971 Gold, non-monetary

(excluding gold ores and
concentrates)

for goods inteided for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;

for environme itally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
agrzements to which the Borrower is a party;

on account o/ any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
Nations Secur ty Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
United Nations; and

with respect 1o which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collusive or ccercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Borrower or o‘her ecipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.

“First Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category erititled “First Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of Schedule | to this Agreement.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

“IGD-M” is an index >f decentralized management efficiency that measures the
institutional and program management of the Bolsa Familia and CadUnico
programs.

-18-

Tobacco processing
machine

 
YU

i}

13.

“International Public Sector Accounting Standards” means the accounting
standards prepared by the International Public Sector Accounting Standards
Board (IPSASB), an independent standard-setting body within the International
Federation of Accountants (IFAC), developed for use by public sector entities in
the preparation of general purpose financial statements.

“Legislative Assembly” means the Borrower’s legislative body.

“Municipality”, or the plural thereof, means a political subdivision of the
Borrower pursuant to the Borrower’s Constitution dated October 5, 1989, as
amended.

“Official Gazette” means the Borrower’s Diario Oficial.

“Pacto pela Educacgéo” means the Borrower’s statewide education program
aimed at improving learning in elementary schools through cooperation between
the Borrower and Participating Municipalities and established pursuant to the
Borrower’s Decree referred to in Section I.A.1(a)(1) of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.

“Pacto pela Vida” means the Borrower’s program aimed at reducing crime rates
and violence in the Borrower’s territory and established by the Borrower’s Law
No. 12.357, dated September 26, 2011, published in the Borrower’s Official
Gazette on September 27, 2011.

“Participating Municipalities” means the Municipalities in the Borrower’s
territory that have signed a cooperation agreement with the Borrower in order to
adhere to the Pacto pela Educagdo.

“Plano Plurianual 2012/2015” means the Borrower’s four-year plan (covering the
period from, and including, calendar years 2012 through 2015) establishing
regional directives, objectives and goals aimed at facilitating the implementation
and management of public policies, harmonizing governmental action, guiding
the determination of priorities and expanding conditions for sustainable
development, adopted by the Borrower through the Borrower’s Law referred to
in Section I.A.1(e)(i1) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
referred to in the letter dated January 20, 2012, from the Borrower to the Bank
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its
execution.

-19-
20.

“PRONAF” means the Cruarantor’s national program to strengthen family
farming, titled “Programa Nacional de Fortalecimento da Agricultura Familiar
—~ PRONAF’’, establisk ed through the Guarantor’s Decree No. 1.946, dated June
28, 1996, published in the Gjuarantor’s Diario Oficial on July 11, 1996.

“Second Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled “Second Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of Schedule | to this Agreement.

“SEFAZ” means the E.orrower’s Secretariat of Finance.

“Vida Melhor” means the Borrower’s statewide social inclusion program aimed
at fostering socio-prcductive inclusion of selected persons in urban and rural
areas, and established through the Borrower’s Decree referred to in Section
1.A.1(c)(ii: of Schedu'e | to this Agreement.

Section I. Modifications to the General Conditions

 

The modifications to the Gene ral Conditions are as follows:

1.

The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

Sections 2.04 (Desigrated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
accordingly.

Sections 4.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.

Paragrapt. (a) of Section £.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
and relating to Use 0,°Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified tc reac! as follows:

“Section 5.05. Plans; Documents; Records
_ (c) The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures

under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.”

20 -

 
 

6. Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows:

“Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

(c) The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.”

7. The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
accordingly:

(a)

(b)

(c)

The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as
follows:

“Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.”

The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their
entirety.

The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is
modified to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout

these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program’’):

““Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in
support of which the Loan is made.”

-2]-
