Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
UMENTS!

Oe one,

 

LOAN NUMBER 8238-PH

Loan Agreement

(Second Development Policy Loan to Foster More Inclusive Growth)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

April 20, 2013

 

 
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated April 20, 2013, entered into between the REPUBLIC OF

THE PHILIPPINES (“the Borrower”) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“the Bank”) for the purpose of providing
financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The
_ Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of (a) the actions
which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in
Section I of Schedule | to this Agreement, and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an
adequate macroeconomic policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore
hereby agree as follows:

1.02.

2.01.

2.02.

2.03.

2.04.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IT — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of three hundred million Dollars
($300,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement (“Loan”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
in accordance with Section II of Schedule | to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by
the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05.

2.06.

2.07.

2.08.

-2-

The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

(a)

(b)

(c)

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount. of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to -
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate.

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section II of
Schedule | to this Agreement.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.
3.01.

4.01.

5.01.

5.02.

6.01.

6.02.

-3-

ARTICLE II — PROGRAM

The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:

(a) the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of
either party, exchange views on the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;

(b) prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request; and

(c) without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation
that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the
Program or any action taken under the Program, including any action
specified in Section I of Schedule | to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Event of Suspension is that a situation has arisen which shall
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be carried
out.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Additional Condition of Effectiveness is that the Bank is satisfied with the
progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program and with the
adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

The Borrower’s Representative is its Secretary at the time responsible for
finance.

The Borrower’s Address is:
Department of Finance
Department of Finance Building
Bangko Sentral Complex

Roxas Blvd.

Manila, Philippines

Facsimile:

(63-2) 526-9990
(63-2) 523-9216

6.03. The Bank’s Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145(MC])
AGREED at District of Colombia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

By

Authorized Representative

Name: CESL V  PURIsitrs
Title: CON OI AAC

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By

ry Kaen t

Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1

Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds

Section I. Actions Taken Under the Program

The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:

BIR has adopted a strategic plan for the years 2011-2016 and an agency-level set
of key performance indicators that conform to good international standards in tax
administration, and has collected baseline data for the year 2011.

DOF has implemented a web-based financial monitoring framework for GOCCs.

The Philippine Business Registry has been uploaded online and is functioning,
and has been linked with the online Business Permit and Licensing Systems of
two (2) LGUs.

DPWH has strengthened its project preparation and implementation
methodologies, and quantified performance. targets, including completing over
ninety percent (90%) of project bids for the 2012 GAA allotments in the first
semester.

IAC has approved an action plan to implement the PFM Reform Roadmap,
including the adoption of a Unified Account Code Structure for budgetary,
accounting, treasury transactions, and auditing.

DBM has published, not later than two (2) months after the end of each quarter,
the obligated expenditure data for the 2011/2012 budget required from line
agencies of the Borrower, as well as gaps from those that have not submitted
such data.

The actual spending (adjusted for inflation) of DepEd in 2011 has been equal to
or greater than its spending in 2010.

The per-student subsidy provided to participants in the Education Service
Contracting Program has been increased to enable greater participation of
students from low-income households, based on a program review by DBM and
DepEd.

Households receiving conditional cash transfers under the CCT Program have
been enrolled in the NHIP for receiving an enhanced package of PhilHealth
benefits.
_7-

Section II. Availability of Loan Proceeds

A.

General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
may specify by notice to the Borrower.

Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the
Front-end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the
Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:

Allocations

1. Single Withdrawal Tranche 299,250,000
2. Front-end Fee , 750,000

3. Amount due pursuant to
Section 2.07(c) of this
Agreement for Interest
Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar premium

TOTAL AMOUNT

Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions

Amount of the Loan Allocated
(expressed in Dollars)

     
  
  
 

 
  

  
     
 

   

300,000,000

No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank
is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with
the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework.

Deposits of Loan Amounts

The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the request for
withdrawal from the Loan Account, and shall thereafter maintain a deposit
account in Dollars in Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.

The withdrawal from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the
Deposit Account.

Upon the deposit of the amount of the Loan into the Deposit Account, the
Borrower shall ensure that an equivalent amount is accounted for in the
Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
Audit
Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall:

have the Deposit Account audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to
the Bank;

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six (6)
months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the
report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request and make such report publicly available in a timely fashion and in a
manner acceptable to the Bank; and

furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account and
its audit as the Bank shall reasonably request.

Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at
any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank,
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.

Closing Date. The Closing Date is February 28, 2014.
9.

SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule

l. The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

   
 

  
   
    
  
  

Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)

  

Principal Payment Date

On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning May 15, 2023
through November 15, 2037

On May 15, 2038

2. If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

  
   

 

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph |
of this Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph | of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”)
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
-10-

(a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment.
Date following the date of withdrawal.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs | and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

[f the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
1,

-ll-

APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

“BIR” means the Bureau of Internal Revenue, an attached agency under the
Borrower’s DOF (as hereinafter defined), or any successor thereto.

“Business Permit and Licensing System” means the business permit and
licensing registration system established and maintained pursuant to the Joint
Memorandum Circular No. 01 dated August 2010 between DTI and DILG (both
as hereinafter defined), for the purpose of establishing performance standards for
LGUs (as hereinafter defined) for business registration processing.

“CCT Program” means Conditional Cash Transfer Program, otherwise known as
the Pantawid Pamilya program, the Borrower’s program for the assistance of
poor families through the provision of cash transfers conditional on compliance
with the conditions referred to in the CCT Legal Framework and the CCT
Operations Manual (both as hereinafter defined)

“CCT Program Legal Framework” means the framework of the Borrower
establishing the CCT Program and comprising among others the following:
(a) Memorandum Circular No. 09, Series of 2007, for Creating the Ahon
Pamilyang Pilipino Program (AAP) National Advisory Committees and Defining
their Roles and Responsibilities; (b) Administrative Order No. 16, Series of
2008, for Guidelines on the Implementation of Pantawid Pamilya program; and
(c) Joint Memorandum Circular No. 01, Series of 2009, for Defining the
Institutional Arrangements for the Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation of
the Pantawid Pamilya program, as may be revised from time to time.

“CCT Program Operations Manual” means the Borrower’s manual for the CCT
Program, dated September 24, 2009, as may be revised from time to time.

“COA” means Commission on Audit, the Borrower’s supreme audit institution
established under Article IX-D of the Constitution of the Borrower which
declares its independence as a constitutional office, grants it powers to audit all
accounts pertaining to all government revenues and expenditures/uses of
government resources and to prescribe accounting and auditing rules, gives it
exclusive authority to define the scope and techniques for its audits, and prohibits
the legislation of any law which would limit its audit coverage, or any successor
thereto.

“DBM” means the Borrower’s Department of Budget and Management, or any
successor thereto.
-|12-

8. “DepEd” means the Borrower’s Department of Education, or any successor
thereto.
9. “Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Part D.1 of Section II of

Schedule | to this Agreement.

10. “DILG” means the Borrower’s Department of the Interior and Local
Government, or any successor thereto.

11. “DOF” means the Borrower’s Department of Finance, or any successor thereto.

12. “DOH” means the Borrower’s Department of Health, or any successor thereto.

13... “DPWH” means the Borrower’s Department of Public Works and Highways, or
any successor thereto.

14. “DTI” means the Borrower’s Department of Trade and Industry, or any successor
thereto.

15. “Education Service Contracting Program” means the Borrower’s program under

the GASTPE (as hereinafter defined) established and maintained for the purpose
of contracting with private schools to enroll students in areas where there is a
shortage of places in public high schools.

16. “Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure:

(a) for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
or grant;

(b) for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the
Borrower:

Alcoholic beverages

Te

TT EE
tobacco refuse

EE
or not containing tobacco

     
      
17.

18.

19.

20.

 

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

Radioactive and associated
stones, unworked or worked
Nuclear reactors, and parts

thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated, for

nuclear reactors |
Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
wares (including set gems)

Gold, non-monetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;

for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
agreements to which the Borrower is a party;

on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
United Nations; and

with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.

“GAA” means General Appropriations Act, the annual budget of the Borrower.

‘“GASTPE” means the Borrower’s assistance program for students and teachers
in private education.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012 with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

““GOCCs” means corporations owned and controlled by the Borrower.
21.

22.

23.

24.

25.

26.

27.

28.

29.

-14-

“TAC” means the Inter-Agency Steering Committee established in January 2010
through a Memorandum of Agreement among COA, DBM and DOF to oversee,
coordinate and develop the integration and harmonization of the Borrower’s
financial management system known as the Public Financial Management
Reform Roadmap and Action Plan implementation.

“LGUs” means Local Government Units, the political subdivisions of the
Borrower at the provincial, city, municipal or barangay level.

“NHIP” means National Health Insurance Program of the Borrower established
under the Borrower’s National Health Insurance Act of February 14, 1995
(Republic Act No 7875).

“PFM Reform Roadmap” means the Borrower’s plan adopted pursuant to its
Executive Order 55/2011 for the purpose of strengthening the Borrower’s public
financial management systems, including, inter alia, the automation of financial
systems.

“PhilHealth” means the Philippines Health Insurance Corporation, an entity fully
owned and controlled by the Borrower and operating under the authority of the
DOH, established pursuant to the Borrower’s National Health Insurance Act of
February 14, 1995 (Republic Act No. 7875) with the mandate to provide social
health insurance coverage to all Filipinos, or any successor thereto.

“Philippine Business Registry” means the electronic business registration system
set up by the Borrower for the purpose of streamlining business registration
procedures by providing interconnectivity between relevant agencies of the
Borrower.

“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
referred to in the letter dated December 21, 2012 from the Borrower to the Bank
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its
execution.

“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of Schedule | to this Agreement.

“Unified Account Code Structure” means the system combining the budget
classification structures of the COA and DBM for the purpose of enabling
financial reporting of actual expenditure against budget data.
~15-

Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:

The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
accordingly.

Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management,
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.

Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows: |

“Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records

(c) The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
under the Loan until two (2) years after the Closing Date. The Borrower
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.”

Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows:

Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

(c) The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date, a
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.

The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
accordingly:
(a)

(b)

(c)

-16-

The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as
follows:

“*Fligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.”

The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their
entirety.

The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is
modified to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program’’):

“Program” means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in
support of which the Loan is made.”
