Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

 

LOAN NUMBER 8255-YF

Loan Agreement

(Serbia Road Rehabilitation and Safety Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF SERBIA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

|
Datea NiVEMbER At 2013
LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated Noveyiee 24, 2013, between REPUBLIC OF SERBIA
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN

2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of seventy three million eight hundred
thousand Euros (EUR 73,800,000), as such amount may be converted from time
to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of
Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”).

2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.03. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

2.04. The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.

2.05. The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.
2.06.

2.07.

3.01.

3.02.

4.01.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

(a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.

(b) Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

ARTICLE I — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and the Project Agreement.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Event of Suspension consists of, namely, that the Project
Implementing Entity’s Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely impact the ability of

-3-
5.03.

the Project Implementing Entity to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.

The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of, namely, that the event
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period
of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the
Borrower.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower
and the Project Implementing Entity;

The Co-financing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to
make withdrawals under it (other than the effectiveness of this
Agreement) have been fulfilled;

The Project Operations Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, has been
adopted by the Project Implementing Entity; and

The Project accounting system satisfactory to the Bank is in place, with
adequate built-in controls, and capable of tracking Project resources and
expenditures and generating financial reports, including interim financial
reports (IFRs).

The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following:

(a)

(b)

The Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the
Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity in accordance
with its terms; and

The Co-financing Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the
Borrower and the Co-financier and is legally binding upon the Borrower
and the Co-financier in accordance with its terms.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty (180) days after
the date of this Agreement.

-4-
6.01.

6.02.

6.03.

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance.
The Borrower’s Address is:

Ministry of Finance
20 Kneza Milosa St.
11000 Belgrade
Republic of Serbia

Facsimile:
(381-11) 3618-961

The Bank’s Address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145(MCI)
AGREED at DELER ENE . KeTupuic OF ¢ © A6Vs5 of the day and year
first above written.

REPUBLIC OF SERBIA

By
Authorized Representative
Titles AVS TER OF FWA CE

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

© Qc

Authorized Representative

Name: ACOULAAW DAR CLANK ELI V A’

Title: [ATI NG COUNTEY MANAG GK
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve the condition and safety of the National
Road Network for road users by supporting the Borrower in the implementation of the
first phase of the National Road Network Rehabilitation Program.
The Project consists of the following parts:

Part 1: Road Rehabilitation and Safety Investments

Provision of goods, works, consultants’ services and non-consulting services for
carrying out rehabilitation and safety works, including:

(i) Periodic maintenance and rehabilitation works;
(ii) Partial pavement widening;

(iii) Traffic signalization improvement;

(iv) Structural renewal;

(v) Setting up ancillary road connections and drainage systems pursuant to
criteria set forth in the Project Operational Manual; and

(vi) Incorporation of road safety measures as recommended by road safety
audits, pursuant to criteria set forth in the Project Operational Manual.

Part 2: Institutional Strengthening

 

Provision of goods, consultants’ services, non-consulting services for:

(a) Strengthening safety of roads within the National Road Network
Program, through:

(1) Carrying out road safety inspections;
(ii) Implementation of low cost safety measures, including traffic
calming measures, and road furniture within the National Road

Network;

(iii) | Carrying out road safety awareness campaigns;

-7-
(iv) Supporting the development and implementation of strengthened
enforcement of road safety regulations; and

(v) Carrying out training and accreditation of personnel on safety
audits and inspections.

(b) Strengthening road rehabilitation and planning processes through:
(1) Carrying out a road conditions survey of the National Road
Network;
(11) Conducting an update of the National Roads database maintained

by the Project Implementing Entity;

(iii) | Establishment of a practice of developing multi-year National
Roads maintenance plans that prioritize activities based on
economic, social, and regional criteria set forth in the Project
Operations Manual; and

(iv) Supporting the implementation of updated design standards for
National Roads maintenance and rehabilitation.

(c) Strengthening National Roads maintenance management through:

(1) Supporting the development of a strategic plan for the adoption
of a tendering process of performance-based maintenance
contracts;

(11) Supporting the preparation of model bidding documents for
performance-based maintenance contracts;

(iii) | Provision of training to Project Implementing Entity staff and
prospective contractors on performance-based maintenance
contracts; and

(iv) | Provision of implementation support of performance-based
maintenance contracts.

Part 3: Project Detailed Design, Project Supervision, Management, Monitoring and
Audits

(a) Support the design and Project supervision activities for rehabilitation
and safety works to be carried out on the National Road Network.

-8-
(b)

(Cc)

Carrying out activities for Project management support and capacity
building of the Project Implementing Entity in areas such as
procurement, financial management, environmental and social
safeguards, and annual program planning.

Carrying out monitoring activities, and Project Audits, including:

(i) The Independent Performance Audit; and

(ii) The Project financial audit.
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

The Borrower shall maintain the Project Implementing Entity with the necessary
resources to carry out the Project, and with a composition and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the
Project in accordance with the Project Operations Manual, and shall not, and
shall cause the Project Implementing Entity not to, amend or waive any provision
thereto without the Bank’s prior written approval. In case of any conflict between
the terms of the Operational Manual and the Agreement, the Agreement shall
prevail.

The Borrower shall maintain a Steering Committee, which shall include
representatives of the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Transport,
Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Regional Development and Local Self-
Governance, as well as representatives of the Project Implementing Entity, and
shall have oversight functions on overall Project Implementation. The Borrower
shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to coordinate the meetings of the
Steering Committee on a periodic basis.

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to maintain the Project
Implementation Team, in charge of the day-to-day implementation of the Project,
including financial management, procurement, environmental, and social and
technical aspects of the Project. The Project Implementation Team shall be
headed by the Project Implementing Entity’s Director for Investments, reporting
to the Deputy Director of the Project Implementing Entity, and shall have the
following functions: (a) Project direction; (b) Project coordination; (c) Project
procurement; (d) Project financial management; (e) Environmental and Social
Safeguards; (f) National Road safety; and (g) National Road rehabilitation. The
Project Implementation Team shall also be comprised of members of the
National Road Traffic Safety Coordination Body (NRTSC) from the following
working groups: (a) enforcement, and (b) safety of school children, as well as
representatives from the Ministry of Transport and the Road Safety Agency.

The Borrower shall cause the National Road Traffic Safety Coordination Body
(NRTSC) to coordinate National Road safety interventions, in a manner agreed

-10-
upon between the Project Implementing Entity and the Bank, pursuant to criteria
established in the Project Operations Manual.

Subsidiary Agreement

To facilitate the carrying out of the Project by the Project Implementing Entity,
the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to the Project
Implementing Entity under a subsidiary agreement between the Borrower and the
Project Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions approved by the Bank
(“Subsidiary Agreement”).

The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Agreement or any of its provisions.

Anti-Corruption

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines,

Safeguards

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the EMF, EMPs, RPF, and RAPs, as applicable. The Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive the EMF, EMPs, RPF, or RAPs, or
any provision thereof, without prior approval of the Bank.

For purposes of Part 1 of the Project, the Borrower shall: (a) prior to the issuance
of the bidding documents for the works contract for each segment of road, cause
the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and submit to the Bank for its
approval: (i) the proposed design and site for said works, and the related site-
specific EMP in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) the draft
contract for said works, ensuring that the provisions of the site-specific EMP are
adequately included in said contract; (b) prior to the signing of a contract for
works which require acquisition of land and/or resettlement, prepare and submit
to the Bank for its approval the site-specific land acquisition plans and/or RAP(s)
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and (c) prior to the
commencement of the works, ensure that the owners and users of land where said
works are to be implemented are fully compensated in accordance with the
provisions of the RAP(s).

-l1-
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to: (a) ensure that all
activities undertaken for purposes of carrying out the Project, financed by both
the Bank and the Co-financier, comply with environmental standards and
guidelines set forth in the EMF; (b) ensure that the selection of any road section
under Part 1 of the Project is done in accordance with the EMF; (c) ensure the
complete implementation of the EMP(s) in a manner satisfactory to the Bank,
including all necessary measures to minimize and to mitigate any adverse
environmental impacts caused by the implementation of the Project; and (d) to
maintain an Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialist within its Project
Implementation Team, with such responsibilities and functions acceptable to the
Bank as shall enable the Project Implementing Entity to manage, coordinate, and
monitor the implementation of the EMPs.

The Borrower shall: (a) ensure that the Project Implementing Entity prepares
RAPs according to the RPF; (b) maintain or cause to be maintained by the
Project Implementing Entity, and publicize, or cause to be publicized by the
Project Implementing Entity, the availability of grievance procedures to hear and
determine fairly and in good faith, in accordance with the RPF, all complaints
raised in relation with the implementation of the RAPs by those being resettled
(the such term shall be defined in the RAP) or by those host communities who
are adversely affected by the implementation of the RPF, and take all measures
necessary to implement the determinations made under such grievance
procedures.

Section II. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

Project Reports

The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to
the Bank not later than forty-five days after the end of the period covered by such
report.

Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph A.1 of this Section, the
Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to include in each Project
Report, a reference to the Borrower’s level of compliance with the DLIs.

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

The Borrower shall maintain or cause the Project Implementing Entity to
maintain a financial management system in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.

-[2-
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than forty
five days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial!
reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory
to the Bank.

The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.

Independent Performance Audit

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to ensure independent
monitoring and evaluation of the Project, through the carrying out of an
Independent Performance Audit certifying the extent to which: (a) Eligible
Expenditures under the Reporting Periods covered by the audit have been
incurred in compliance with the safeguards and procurement arrangements
provided for in this Agreement and under the Operations Manual; (b) road works
have been performed in accordance with the relevant civil work contracts; (c) the
Disbursement-Linked Indicators for the Reporting Periods covered by the audit
have been met; and (d) the Additional Instructions have been adhered to by the
Borrower.

No later than forty-five days after the end of the second Reporting Period of the
calendar year, the Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to
furnish to the Bank a complete Independent Performance Audit Report including
all the findings and results from the Independent Performance Audit, as well as
the certifications from the Project Audit Consultant.

No later than three months prior to the end of the second Reporting Period of
each calendar year, the Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to
engage, under terms of reference and with qualifications satisfactory to the Bank,
a Project Audit Consultant, for purposes of carrying out the Independent
Performance Audit.

Section III. Procurement

General

Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds

-13-
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.

Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.

Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services

International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.

Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than National Competitive Bidding, may
be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those
contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) International Competitive
Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set out in the Attachment to this
Schedule 2; (b) Shopping; and (c) Direct Contracting.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants’ services for those contracts which are specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; (d) Selection based on Consultants’
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Procedures set
forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of
Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.

-14-
D. Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.

Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. General

1. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article If of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

2. The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.

    
     
 
  
 

Amount of the Loan | Percentage of Expenditures to

 
  
 

   
  

Allocated be financed
(expressed in EUR) (exclusive of Taxes)

    

    
     
  

   

68,760,500 100% up to 34.38 million EUR
under DLI] as set out in Schedule

4 to this Agreement.

(1) Goods, works, non-
consulting services, and
consultants’ services for
Part 1 and Part 2 of the
Project

  

     
  

    
 
      
 
 
   
  

100% up to 17.19 million EUR
under DLI2 as set out in Schedule
4 to this Agreement.

  

100% up to 17.19 million EUR
under DLI3 as set out in Schedule
4 to this Agreement.
4,855,000 100%

  
    
    
 
 
    

  

(2) Goods, consultants’
services, Training,
Incremental Operating
Costs for Part 3 of the
Project, and audit

-15-
     

(3) Front-end Fee 184,500 Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this Agreement in
accordance with Section 2.07 (b)

of the General Conditions

      
 
 
        
 

TOTAL AMOUNT 73,800,000

For purposes of this table:

(a) “Incremental Operating Costs” means the reasonable expenditures incurred for
the implementation of the Project by the Project Implementing Entity on account
of communications, translations, office supplies, advertisements, photocopying,
mail, and travel expenses. Such costs will be financed out of the Loan proceeds
pursuant to an annual budget approved by the Bank, and according to the Project
Implementing Entity administrative procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Incremental Operating Costs will not include salaries of officials of the
Borrower’s civil service or of staff of the Project Implementing Entity.

(b) “Training” means Project related training and workshops to be carried out
according to training plans to be prepared by the Project Implementing Entity and
agreed to by the Bank, including study tours, training courses, seminars,
workshops and other training activities, not included under goods or service
providers’ contracts, including costs of training materials, space and equipment
rental, local travel, per diem costs of trainees and trainers’ fees, and interpretation
and translation services.

(c) “exclusive of Taxes” means, in connection with Section 2.06 of the General
Conditions, that the Loan proceeds shall not be used for financing of Taxes
levied by, or in the territory of the Borrower on or in respect of Eligible
Expenditures, or on their importation, manufacture, procurement or supply.

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.

2. Under Category (1), withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be made on a
semi-annual basis, upon submission by the Borrower of reports specified below,
each in form and substance acceptable to the Bank.

(a) for the first withdrawal, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank a cash

flow forecast for the first two Reporting Periods covering the Eligible
Expenditures for said first two Reporting Periods;

-16-
(b)

(c)

for all subsequent withdrawals to be made for the first semester of the
respective calendar year, the Borrower shall submit pursuant to the
Additional Instructions: (i) an IFR providing evidence, satisfactory to the
Bank, of Eligible Expenditures for the Reporting Period corresponding to
the first semester of the calendar year; (ii) if applicable, an adjustment of
the cash flow forecast for the Reporting Period corresponding to the
second semester of the calendar year; and (iii) a cash flow forecast for
the Reporting Period corresponding to the first semester of the calendar
year following the respective withdrawal; and

for all subsequent withdrawals to be made for the second semester of a
respective calendar year, the Borrower shall submit, pursuant to the
Additional Instructions: (i) an IFR providing evidence, satisfactory to the
Bank, of Eligible Expenditures for the Reporting Period corresponding to
the second semester of the calendar year; (ii) the Independent
Performance Audit for the two Reporting Periods of the respective
calendar year, which shall include: (1) a confirmation of compliance with
DLIs for said Reporting Periods, as set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement; and (2) documentation, satisfactory to the Bank, of the
Eligible Expenditures in the IFRs for the first and second Reporting
Periods of the respective calendar year; (iii) if applicable, an adjustment
of the cash flow forecast for the withdrawal corresponding to the first
semester of the next calendar year; and (iv) a cash flow forecast for the
second semester of the next calendar year.

In connection with the forgoing:

(a)

if the Bank shall determine, based on the evidence referred to in Section
IV. B.2(c) above, as applicable, that:

(1) the DLIs have only been partially met, the withdrawn amount of
the Loan shall be reduced in proportion to the respective degree
of DLI achievement, by an amount calculated in accordance with
a formula, agreed between the Borrower and the Bank and
provided for under the Additional Instructions, and any balance
of the withdrawal requested for the Reporting Periods of the
calendar year shall remain available for the subsequent
withdrawal; or

(ii) there has been no achievement of DLIs, the total amount of the
respective withdrawal request shall remain available for the
subsequent withdrawal. Such amount may be disbursed only if
the DLIs which were not previously achieved shall subsequently
be achieved.

-17-
(b)

(c)

the Bank may, after consultation with, and by notice to, the Borrower,
cancel any amount of the Loan, in whole or in part, withheld pursuant to
paragraph B.3(a) above under Category (1), or may reallocate such
amount so withheld, in whole or in part, to Category (1) or (2), as
applicable.

the Bank may, after due consideration of withdrawals requested in
connection with Section B.2(c) above, and by notice to the Borrower,
adjust from time to time the amounts and figures set forth in Schedule 4
of this Agreement for specific DLIs.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 2 and 3 above, the Bank shall not
be required to make further deposits into the Designated Account:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(a)

if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the IFRs and other reports
referred to in paragraph 2 adequately provide the information as
specified in the Additional Instructions and Project Operational Manual;

if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period
of time specified in Section II.B of this Agreement, any of the audit
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section; and

if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 7.02 of the
General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine,
in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Designated
Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for
making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.

If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the
Designated Account was made for an expenditure which is not an
Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank,
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit
into the Designated Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to
the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment. Unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Designated Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

-18-
(b) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of this
paragraph 5 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the
Loan Agreement.

6. The Closing Date is October 31, 2018.

-19-
Attachment
to
SCHEDULE 2

The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding shall be those set forth
in this Attachment to Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement of even date hereto, between the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Republic of Serbia,
provided, however that such procedure shall be subject to the provisions of Section 1 and
Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the “Guidelines for Procurement of Goods, Works, and Non-
Consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers’(January 2011) (the “Procurement Guidelines”), and the following additional
provisions:

“Open Tendering” procedures as defined in Public Procurement Law of Serbia
shall apply to all contracts;

Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no preference of any
kind shall be given to national bidders in the bidding process. Government-
owned enterprises in Serbia shall be permitted to bid only if they are legally and
financially autonomous and operate under commercial law of the Recipient;

Procuring entities shall use sample bidding documents approved by the Bank;

In case of higher bid prices compared to the official estimate, all bids shall not be
rejected without the prior concurrence of the World Bank;

A single-envelope procedure shall be used for the submission of bids;

Post-qualification shall be conducted only on the lowest evaluated bidder; no bid
shall be rejected at the time of bid opening on qualification grounds;

Bidders who contract as a joint venture shall be held jointly and severally liable;
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated, substantially responsive
bidder who is determined to be qualified to perform in accordance with pre-

defined and pre-disclosed evaluation criteria;

Post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any
other bidders;

Contracts of long duration (more than 18 months) shall contain appropriate price
adjustment provisions;

-20-
The bidding document and contract as deemed acceptable by the World Bank
shall include provisions stating the World Bank’s policy to sanction firms or
individuals, found to have engaged in fraud and corruption as defined in the
Procurement Guidelines; and

In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding document and
contract financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall provide that bidders,
suppliers and contractors, and their subcontractors, agents, personnel,
consultants, service providers, or suppliers, shall permit the World Bank to
inspect all accounts, records, and other documents relating to the submission of
bids and contract performance, and to have them audited by auditors appointed
by the World bank. Acts intended to materially impede the exercise of the World
Bank’s inspection and audit rights provided for in the Procurement Guidelines
constitute an obstructive practice as defined in the Guidelines.

-2]-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule

1. The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

Expressed as a Percentage
On each June 15 and December 15 BC
Beginning June 15, 2018
through December 15, 2027 5%

2. If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

       
 

 
     

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1
of this Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”)
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

-22-
(a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs | and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.

-23-
om . jusdied/(soing
Yo8S'OP SLEPE 8001 uOoT]IW) onp
jUNOWe JUSWESINGSsIq

(9ATye~NuINd)
yofoig Japun
poyerodsooul soinseoul
Ajojes pue poyejipiqeyas

L08 COL 8St 89 speol JO Wy

rIITd ETIId CITITd mee AyayeS

pur nonEeNpqeqoy
PeOe :1 11d ‘I

 

uno] jvj0} fo juadsad Cond oat ut)
2 SD UOWOSITASIG | juawasangsip j010], LIOCKL 9107/71 SI07/ZI PIOZ/ZI

"yueg 94} Woly sdH0U Aq 19MO1I0g
94} 0} PIPVITUNUIWIOS 9q [[VYS Sainsy pue sjuNOUWe pajysn(pe qons pue YUudIIIAISY SIQ} 0} Z IINPsyrs jo (3)7°q UOIVIaC 0)
jUeNSINd MITAII 9Y} UO paseq ‘AUD 0} BUT) WOAy pajsnf{pe oq Avul ST TG dYleds 0} Surpuodsa.i109 saunsy pue syunoUe ay],

SAOJVIIPU] poyury] JUIWISINGsIG

PY ATNGAHOS
-SC-

   

quso10d

(song uol]iut) anp
yUNOWe JUSWOSINGSIG]
susredures
ssousieme pue SUIPTING

Apoeded : €z ITd

   

.6C CT 6VLI ¢S'y ¢9'S

           

           

u
onoodsuripne

  

speol s joofolg
3} JO AYUTOIA

          

                                  

dU} UI SOOYdS Ayoyes
QZ ul susiedureo peor oyevepun
ssouoreme OF pours) (aaneinund)
Cade 1d suosiad 07 poyuowio, duit saunseaul
ld r1d

Ayajes peol JSOd MO]
pue uoijpodsul Ajayes

                        

  

poyoodsul

                          

  

       

          

 

                    

    
 

 

      

 

       

 

  

poyuswio|duil
SoInseowl
Ayoyes Wy
OOL 29 powedsul
wy OOO!

pumas | romnotn | se, | phn ‘gpon sim

fayes w005 fajes U9 oz yoeuod uoKsedsul

29 poyoodsul 2p poyoodsut enue Ayoyes peoy :WZ I1G

sverm | rveria | sveria | ssvepon sy
I'VZITA | Ajoyes peoy :7 r1a ‘z
%Wb6T ET

6°L
_ —

uoneyUoWs|dwi
ul WY 000"? Jo

[B}0} & JO} OI d
LETId

polapus}
APPAQueduIOS WY
OOO [PUOTIpPpe
ue 10} OWd
9ETId

-97-

uoljeyUsWa; du
Ul WY

00S I JO} OWdd
SElId

:poJopus}
AJaAnadwi09
wy
OOS [BuonIppe
ue 10} OWdd
WETTIG

a

polopus}
AJSATWaduIOS
uy 00S I
40} OWd
£E€ Id

9107 Is'ce jUautasingsig [¥I0],

jua010d
t's / (soing wor]IwW) onp
jUNOWe JUSWOSINGSIq

OWdd J°
uolonpo.ul
oY} Joy ueyd
NSoyeI]S JO
uonesedaig

CE ITA

“Splepueys
usISOp
uone]Iqeydas
x
soueudUIeW
PdSIAdl SULIOJIY
jo uondopy yUoMIoseuey]
l'éITd aUBUa UIE]
clVid ‘¢€

 
10.

APPENDIX
Definitions

“Additional Instructions” means the additional instructions referred to in Section
IV.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, dated as of even date herewith, as such
Additional Instructions may be revised from time to time by the Bank and
delivered to the Borrower.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.

“Co-financier” means the European Investment Bank.

“Co-financing” means, for purposes of paragraph 16 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, an amount of EUR 100 million to be provided by the Co-
financier to assist in financing the Project.

“Co-financing Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Co-financier providing for the Co-financing.

“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“Decision Establishing Public Enterprise for State Roads Management” means
the Borrower’s Decision No.023/8228/2005, dated December 22, 2005, and
published in the Official Herald of the Borrower No. 115/05, establishing the
Project Implementing Entity.

“Disbursement-Linked Indicator” or “DLI’ means an indicator, set forth in
Schedule 4 of this Agreement, the achievement of which is a condition for
disbursement of Loan Proceeds, pursuant to Section IV.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“EME” means the Borrower’s Environmental Management Framework, adopted
by the Borrower on February 1, 2013 and satisfactory to the Bank, published
through the Project Implementing Entity’s website and the Bank’s Infoshop on
January 24, 2013, which outlines the environmental policy, legal, and
administrative framework applicable to the Project, presents environmental

-27-
11.

12.

13.

14,

15.

16.

baseline information and potential environmental impacts, and includes the range
of available mitigation measures that may be adopted, based on each particular
situation. The EMF also contains a description of the environmental management
system and institutional arrangements to be applied as well as recommendations
for capacity building measures in the Project Implementing Entity during Project
implementation aimed at ensuring environmental sustainability. The EMF
includes a generic sample of environmental mitigation and environmental
monitoring plans (EMPs).

‘“EMPs” means the Borrower’s Environmental Management Plans prepared or to
be prepared by the Project Implementing Entity, satisfactory to the Bank, and
updated as necessary during Project implementation, in respect of works to be
undertaken by the Project Implementing Entity under the Project defining details
of measures to manage potential environmental risks and mitigate, reduce and/or
offset adverse environmental impacts associated with the implementation of
activities under the Project, together with adequate institutional, monitoring and
reporting arrangements capable of ensuring proper implementation of, and
regular feedback on compliance with, its terms, as the same shall be updated
during Project implementation based on the detailed works plans and designs, as
the same may be amended or supplemented in any other way from time to time
with the Bank’s prior written approval.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012

“IFR” Means interim financial report.

“Independent Performance Audit” means the annual audit performed by the
Project Audit Consultant, referred to in Section II.C.1 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“Independent Performance Audit Report” means the report by the Project Audit
Consultant integrating the results of the Independent Performance Audit, to be
prepared and furnished to the Bank pursuant to Section II.C.2 of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.

“Law of Public Roads” means the Law on Public Roads of the Borrower
published in the Official Herald of the Borrower No. 101/2005, as such law may
be modified from time to time, provided that in the opinion of the Bank, the
modifications do not carry an adverse impact in the implementation of the
Project.

“National Road” has the meaning ascribed to it under the Law of Public Roads.

-28-
18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

25.

26.

27.

“National Road Network” means the totality of the National Roads of the
Borrower.

“National Road Network Rehabilitation Program” means the program of the
Borrower developed pursuant to the provisions of the Decision Establishing
Public Enterprise for State Roads Management and the Statutes of the Public
Enterprise for State Roads Management, setting forth National Roads
rehabilitation and safety activities to be carried out onto specific National Roads
in agreement with the Bank, pursuant to economic and regional criteria, as set
forth in the Project Operations Manual.

“National Road Traffic Safety Coordination Body” or “NRTSC” means the
organization established by the Borrower through Decision published in the
Official Herald of the Borrower No. 109/12.

“PBMC” means Performance-Based Maintenance Contract.

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project,
dated February 1, 2013 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.

“Project Audit Consultant” means an independent consultant in charge of
carrying out the Independent Performance Audit.

“Project Implementing Entity’ means Public Enterprise for State Roads
Management (PERS).

“Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation” means the Law of Public Roads, the
Decision Establishing Public Enterprise for State Roads Management, and the
Statutes of the Public Enterprise for State Roads Management.

“Project Operations Manual” means the manual, to be adopted by the Project
Implementing Entity and satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth the operational
and administrative responsibilities, procedures and rules for the implementation
of the Project, including a financial management manual, and addressing
safeguards issues, including those relative to the preparation of site-specific
EMPs, and RAPs, consistent with the provisions of this Agreement, as well as
issues relative to the percentage of contracts covering certain activities that will

-29-
28.

29.

30.

31.

32.

be reviewed by the Project Audit Consultant, as the same may be amended and
supplemented from time to time with the Bank’s prior written approval.

“RAPs” means the site-specific resettlement action plans, including any
abbreviated resettlement plans, adopted by the Borrower, pursuant to the RPF
and this Agreement, and satisfactory to the Bank, containing, inter alia, a
program of actions, measures and policies for compensation and resettlement of
persons, including compensation and resettlement arrangements, budget and cost
estimates, and sources of funding, together with adequate institutional, monitoring
and reporting arrangements capable of ensuring proper implementation of, and
regular feedback on compliance with its terms for each site.

“Reporting Period” means a calendar semester for purposes of Section II.C and
Section IV.B.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and the Additional Instructions.

“RPF” means the Borrower’s Resettlement Policy Framework, dated January,
2013, adopted by the Borrower on February 6, 2013, and satisfactory to the
Bank, setting forth resettlement procedures, institutional arrangements, eligibility
criteria, entitlements and compensation, including valuation procedures, public
consultation and participation, and monitoring and evaluation criteria to be
applied in preparing a Resettlement Action Plan.

“Statutes of the Public Enterprise for State Roads Management” means the
Statutes of the Project Implementing Entity, reference number No. 953-00-996,
dated February 08, 2006.

“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of

Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the
proceeds of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity.

-30-
