Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL : Ly tSba- JO
DOCUMENTS |

*

 

d

The World Bank | 1818 H Street N.W. (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT WastiingfOm, D.C. 20433 Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION U.S.A. Cable Address: INDEVAS

February 26, 2013

H.E. Mr. Jafar Hassan

Minister of Planning and International Cooperation
Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
Amman, 11118

The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan

Subject: The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan:
Social Protection Enhancement Project (Loan No.7562-JO)

Amendment to the Loan Agreement

Excellency:

We refer to the Loan Agreement, dated July 08, 2008 (“Loan Agreement), between the
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan (“Borrower”) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (“Bank”), for the above-referenced Project (“Project”). We also refer to your
letters, dated July 30 and November 5, 2012, requesting for an amendment to the Loan
Agreement.

We are pleased to inform you that the Bank concurs with your request, and consequently
the Loan Agreement is amended as set forth below:

l. Section 2.01 of Article II to the Loan Agreement is amended to read as follows:

“2.01 The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of three million one hundred sixty eight thousand two
hundred and three United States Dollars (US$3,168,203) (“Loan”), to assist in financing the
project described in Schedule | to this Agreement (“Project”).”

2. Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement is amended and attached as Attachment 1 to the
Amendment Letter.

3. The table under paragraph A.2 of Section IV of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement is
amended to read as follows:
Amount of the
Loan
Allocated
(expressed in

Percentage of Expenditures
to be financed
(exclusive of Taxes)

   
  
   
 
     
       
   
 
   

   

  
  
  

   

Category

(1) Goods, works, consultants’
services, training and
incremental operating
(2) Front-end Fee

2,895,703 100% from March 1, 2013

   
 
  

costs

 
  

    

Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this Agreement
in accordance with Section
2.07(b) of the General
Conditions

 
  

10,000

    
  
    
    

(3) Unallocated 262,500

Amount cancelled as of
November 5, 2012 831,797
4,000,000

Original Total Amount:

 

Except as specifically amended by this Amendment Letter, all other provisions of the
Loan Agreement remain in full force and effect.

Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by signing the form of confirmation set
forth below and returning one fully executed original of this Amendment Letter to us and

retaining one original for your records. This Amendment Letter shall become effective as of the
date of countersignature.

Yours sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

Geert VU,

Authorized Representative

_2-
AGREED:
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan

By

Name: Jafar Mioecl Hasson
Title: Minister oP Planning andi nrerresicnel Coopemrten

Date: March AD Doi\2

 
 

 

 

Attachment 1
SCHEDULE 1

Project Description

The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in improving its management and
delivery of the Cash Social Assistance Program aimed at reducing poverty among low-income
households and individuals, as well as improving access to and quality of social work and care
services for socially vulnerable families and individuals.

The Project consists of the following four parts:

: Institutional Development and Capacity-Building

Developing and strengthening the capacity of institutions concerned with the provision of
social welfare services to analyze, design, coordinate, monitor, evaluate and implement
policies pertaining to social welfare and protection, including:

(a)

(b)

Developing the institutional capacity of CCSS in areas pertaining to social policy
research and training, and social policy.

Strengthening the institutional and human resources capacity of DOS in areas
pertaining to the collection, processing and reporting statistical data, including
poverty measurement and monitoring, as well as use of information and
communication technology.

: Strengthening NAF’s role in Poverty Reduction

Building NAF’s capacity to manage and deliver the Cash Social Assistance Program
through:

(a)

(b)

(c)

Provision of technical assistance to NAF in the design and implementation of
efficient systems for identifying and targeting socially vulnerable and poor
households and individuals that are eligible for the Cash Social Assistance
Program.

Provision of technical assistance to NAF in developing an efficient and reliable
financial management system as well as in developing efficient and reliable
means of administering the Cash Social Assistance Program.

Developing a comprehensive management information system for the
management and delivery of the Cash Social Assistance Program.

- Social Work and Community-Based Social Care Services

Improving the social work and community-based social care services provided by
MOSD, in collaboration with relevant stakeholders, through:

(a)

Upgrading the model of social care in MOSD’s residential care institutions.

-4-
(b)

(c)

(d)

Developing, implementing and evaluating one pilot integrated social service
center.

Developing, implementing and evaluating a pilot of resource and information
centers for individuals with disabilities.

Provision of support to MOSD to establish and maintain a social innovation
program for assisting in the implementation of innovative projects pertaining to
social work and community-based social care services.

Part 4: Project Management

Carrying out Project management activities, including:

(a)
(b)

(c)

Provision of support to project implementation.

Provision of support to develop and maintain an efficient and effective
information system for the Project.

Provision of support to monitoring and evaluation of Project activities, including
procurement and financial management arrangements under the Project.
