Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

*

  
 
 

  

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS:

 
 

;
et

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8294-AM

Loan Agreement

(First Development Policy Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Datea VCovrenber & .2013
LOAN NUMBER 8294-AM
LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated Flove mbe 2 ¥ , 2013, entered into between REPUBLIC OF
ARMENIA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of
the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of (a) the actions which the Borrower has
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic
policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN

2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, of the amount of thirty one million United States
Dollars (US$ 31,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07
of this Agreement (‘Loan’).

2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.03. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

2.04. The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions.

2.05. |The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.

2.06. The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.07.

2.08.

3.01.

(a)

(b)

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(1) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; and (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.

ARTICLE ITI — PROGRAM

The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:

(a)

(b)

(c)

the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of
either party, exchange views on the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;

prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request; and

without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation
that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the
Program or any action taken under the Program including any action
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

3-
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

4.01. The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following:

(a) A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program,

or a significant part of it, will be carried out.

(b) The Borrower shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under

the Financing Agreement.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01. The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely,

that:

(a) the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in
carrying out the Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower’s

macroeconomic policy framework; and

(b) the Financing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or the right of the Borrower to
make withdrawals under it, (other than the effectiveness of the Loan

Agreement) have been fulfilled.

5.02. The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this

Agreement.
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance.

6.02. The Borrower’s Address is:
Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Armenia
1 Melik-Adamyan Street
Yerevan 0010
Republic of Armenia

Facsimile:
+374-10-524282
6.03. The Bank’s Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

-4-
Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 248423(MCI) or
Washington, D.C. 64145(MCI)

AGREED wbrewan Pimna, as of the day and year first above written.

1-202-477-6391

REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA

By

     

d Representative

-

Name: C , Co COHe2 FL
Title: Whauster of Li CPL CE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR

RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

nn 44
STIG

Authorized Representative

2 | : .
Name: CLerxaniler lestvatsa x Cf QAR
n - jf J

 

V1 (e022 Ge

_5-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds

Section I, Actions Taken Under the Program. The actions taken by the Borrower
under the Program include the following:

Pillar I: Strengthening Competitiveness
Inspection Reform

1. The Borrower has merged two inspection agencies (Labor Inspectorate and Anti-
Epidemiology Inspectorate) aiming to reduce the burden of inspections on
businesses pursuant to Government Decree No. 857 dated July 25, 2013.

Credit Reporting, Collateral, and Bankruptcy Law Reform

2. The Borrower, through its Central Bank, has implemented a series of measures to
enhance the operation of the credit registry and reporting systems, including (i)
issuance of specific requirements regarding consumer credits notified to all banks
and credit organizations in Armenia; (ii) amendments to the Charter of Financial
System Stability and Development Consumer Protection Unit clarifying the role
of said unit in relation to credit report matters; (iii) the limitation of the CBA’s
credit register functions starting on January 1, 2014; (iv) clarifying and
consolidating the responsibility for credit reporting systems oversight by (a)
amending the charters of Supervision, Legal, and Financial Stability
Departments; (b) defining the role of the Consumer Rights Protection Unit, and
(c) establishing the responsibility for unified oversight and enforcement for all
financial institutions in the “Licensing and Supervision Committee”; as
evidenced by CBA’s Chairman Decisions No 1/599A dated July 16, 2013 and No
1/710L dated August 8, 2013; and CBA Circular dated July 4, 2013.

Civil Service Reform

3. The Borrower, in the government session of July 25, 2013, has adopted a draft
Law on Amendments to the Civil Service Law designed to enhance the flexibility
of recruitment, promotion of professional staff, and discontinue the mandatory
periodical attestations, and submitted it to Parliament for approval on August 2,
2013.

Air Connectivity

4. The Borrower: (a) through Government Protocol Decree No. 22 dated June 6,
2013 has adopted a new policy on aviation; (b) has published in the General
Department of Civil Aviation (GDCA) website air services agreements and
respective amendments aiming to raise transparency in the aviation sector; and
(c) has completed and published a study on policy options for the liberalization
of the air transport sector.

_6-
Financial Sector Development

The Borrower, in the Government session of August 22, 2013, has adopted a
draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Funded Pensions and submitted it to
Parliament for approval on August 28, 2013; and the Central Bank, through its
Governing Board meeting held on September 9, 2013 has issued clarifications to
some of the provisions of Article 44 of said law to enhance pension fund asset
management.

Pillar IT: Enhancing Fiscal, Social and Environmental Sustainability

6.

Tax Revenue Mobilization

The Borrower, through Government Protocol Decree No.29, Item 33 dated July
25, 2013 (4) has adopted the “Guidelines on Strategic Principles for Review of
Tax and Customs Legislation’, including the review of tax exemptions and
excise rates with the aim of identifying areas for improving revenue collection,
and (ii) has approved a medium-term strategy on amendments to the tax and
customs legislation.

Social Assistance

7. The Borrower, through Government Decree No. 1859 —N, dated December 29,
2011, has improved the targeting accuracy and coverage of the Family Benefits
Program through improvements in the targeting formula.

8.

Mainstream Environmental Sustainability in the Mining Sector

The Borrower, through its Ministry of Environment, has developed and adopted a

new draft Law on Environmental Impact Assessment in line with good international
practices and it submitted to Parliament for approval on August 2, 2013.

Section II. Availability of Loan Proceeds

A.

General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
may specify by notice to the Borrower.

Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the
Front-end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the
Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:

Allocations Amount of the Loan Allocated
(expressed in Dollars)

(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 30,922,500
(2) Front-end Fee 77,500
TOTAL AMOUNT 31,000,000

 

-7-
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions

No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank
is satisfied (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower, and (b) with
the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework.

Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:

1. all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank;
and

2. the Borrower shall ensure that upon the deposit of an amount of the Loan

into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the
Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the
Bank.

Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines
at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank,
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.

Closing Date. The Closing Date is March 31, 2014.

-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule

1. The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

Principal Payment Date Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)

On each May 15 and November 15 3.33%
Beginning November 15, 2023 through
November 15, 2037

On May 15, 2038

2. If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

  
  
 

   
    
 

  

3.43%

   

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1
of this Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share’’)
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date[, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

3. (a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.

_9-
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (11) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.

-10-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. “Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure:

(a) for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
or grant;

(b) for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the
Borrower:

Alcoholic beverages

Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco
refuse

not containing tobacco substitutes)
Radioactive and associated materials
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof;
fuel elements (cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear reactors
Tobacco processing machine
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and
watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or
silversmiths’ wares (including set

 

gems)
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
(c) for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d) for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of

which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
agreements to which the Borrower is a party;

-11-
(e) on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
United Nations; and

(f) with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.

“Financing Agreement” means the agreement between the Borrower and the
Association in support of the Program, of the same date as this Agreement, as
such agreement may be amended from time to time. “Financing Agreement”
includes all appendices, schedules and agreements supplemental to the Financing
Agreement.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012 with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
referred to in the letter dated September 12, 2013 from the Borrower to the Bank
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its
execution.

“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:

1.

The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
accordingly.

Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.

Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

-12-
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows:

“Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records

(c) The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.”

Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows:

Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

bee (c) The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.

The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
accordingly:

(a) The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as
follows:

“Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.”

(b) The term ‘Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their
entirety.
(c) The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is

modified to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program’’):

‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in
support of which the Loan is made.”

-|3-
