a a me ee ee oe re ree tn ee

  
    

 
 

OF FICIAL
DOCUMENTS’

2° mm Semmes fame sy, EP, eS

LOAN NUMBER 8310- BR

Loan Agreement

(Strengthening Public Policies for Improved Service Delivery
Development Policy Loan”-
Programa de Desenvolvimento das Politicas Publicas do Estado do Acre)

between

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

and

STATE OF ACRE

Dated December LO ,213

 
 

LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated Lereram/arr Lo, 201.3 entered into between

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(“Bank”) and the STATE OF ACRE (“Borrower”) for the purpose of providing financing
in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).

1.01.

1.02.

2.01.

2.02.

WHEREAS (A) The Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis of,
inter alia: (a) the actions already taken or to be taken, by the Borrower under the
Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the Guarantor’s maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy
framework; and (c) the Borrower’s maintenance of: (i) an appropriate
expenditure program; (ii) sustainable debt; and (iii) appropriate fiscal
arrangements with the Guarantor.

WHEREAS (B) the Borrower has informed the Bank that, upon deposit by the
Bank of the proceeds of the Loan (on the terms set forth in Section II of Schedule
1 to this Agreement and for purposes of supporting the Program) into an account
to be designated by the Borrower, the Borrower’s financial capacity will be
strengthened by expanding its fiscal space to finance further public investments
in accordance with the Borrower’s budgetary laws.

The Bank and Borrower therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE 1! — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred and fifty million
Dollars ($250,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07
of this Agreement (“Loan”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. The Borrower’s
Representative for purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be
taken pursuant to this Section is the Borrower’s Secretary of Planning.

 
 

2.03.

2.04.

2.05.

2.06.

2.07.

2.08.

The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. .

The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

(a) The Borrower may at any time, in each case with the prior non-objection
of the Guarantor, through the Secretariat of the National Treasury of the
Guarantor’s Ministry of Finance, request any of the following
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt
management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an
Approved Currency; and (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable
to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread.

(b) Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall

 
 

promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.

ARTICLE II — PROGRAM

3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:

(a)

(b)

(c)

the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of
either party, exchange views on: (i) the Guarantor’s macroeconomic
policy framework; (ii) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate
expenditure program, sustainable debt and appropriate fiscal
arrangements with the Guarantor as referred to in WHEREAS Clause (A)
of this Agreement; and (iii) the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program and the actions specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request; and

without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation
that would have the effect of materially: (i) impairing the Borrower’s
ability to maintain an appropriate expenditure program, sustainable debt
and/or fiscal arrangements with the Guarantor; or (ii) reversing the
objectives of the Program or any action taken under the Program,
including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

4.01. The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:

(a)

(b)

A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program,
or a significant part of it, will be carried out.

An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any
action or policy under the Program (including any action listed in Section
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement) in a manner that would, in the opinion
of the Bank, adversely affect the achievement of the objectives of the
Program.

 
5.01.

3.02.

5.03.

6.01.

6.02.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:

(a) The Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in
carrying out the Program and with the adequacy of the Guarantor’s
macroeconomic policy framework.

(b) The Bank is satisfied with the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate
expenditure program, sustainable debt and appropriate fiscal
arrangements with the Guarantor.

The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the Loan has
been registered with the Guarantor's Central Bank.

Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan
which expire on June 5, 2015.

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

Except for the purposes of Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower’s
Representative is its Governor.

The Borrower’s Address is:

Avenida Brasil n° 402 — Centro
Rio Branco ~ AC — 69.900-078

Facsimile: (55 —68) 3224.0190

With copies to:

SEAIN — Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais do Ministério do Planejamento,
Orcgamento e Gest&o

Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco K — 5° andar

Brasilia — DF, 70040-906

Brazil

Facsimile: (55-61) 2020-5006

402

4.
6.03. The Bank’s Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145(MCTD
AGREED at

Secretaria de Estado de Fazenda

Rua Benjamin Constant n° 946 - Centro
Rio Branco-AC- 69.900-062

Brazil

Facsimile: (55-68) 3215.2150
Secretaria de Estado de Planejamento
Avenida Getulio Vargas n° 232 - Centro
Palacio das Secretarias — 4° andar

Rio Branco-AC — 69.900-060

Facsimile: (55 68) 3224-4535

year first above written.

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR

RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

BY fetal f, |

Authorized RepréSentative

STATE OF ACRE

By VO) ace

Authorized Representative

Lynan ho Feckyat ‘72 Rep hl c of rag f , as of the day and

 
SCHEDULE 1

Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds

Actions under the Program

Actions Taken Under the Program for the First Withdrawal Tranche. The
actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:

Improving Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation to Increase the Results
Orientation of Development Programs, and Introducing Transparent
Procurement and Asset Management Practices.

Section I.
A.
1.
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
2.

The Borrower, through SAI and SEPLAN, has adopted SIPLAGE,
consolidating the Borrower’s planning, monitoring and evaluation
processes in a single results-based system, as evidenced by the issuance
of the Borrower’s Decree No. 6401/2013 of September 26, 2013, duly
published in the Diario Oficial.

The Borrower, through SAI and SEPLAN, has established rules and
procedures for the implementation of SIPLAGE, as evidenced by the
issuance of legal instruction (/nstrucdo Normativa) No. 001 of October
30, 2013, regulating Decree No. 6401/2013 of September 26, 2013, duly
published in the Diario Oficial.

The Borrower, through SGA, has adopted standardized procurement
(including e-procurement) and asset management practices, through the
adoption of GRP, as evidenced by the issuance of the Borrower’s Decree
No. 6412/2013 of September 27, 2013, duly published in the Didrio
Oficial.

The Borrower, through CGE, has established standardized procedures for
expenditure management aimed at increasing the speed, efficiency and
public transparency, as well as for the reduction of administration costs,
as evidenced by the issuance of legal instruction (/nstrug¢@o Normativa)
CGE/AC No. 002/2013 of May 29, 2013, duly published in the Diario
Oficial.

Improving Monitoring of Learning Performance of Students in the
Borrower’s Public Schools and Aligning the Borrower’s Gender Policy and
Institutional Framework with Gender Policy Reforms at the National Level.

(a)

The Borrower, through SEE, has adopted SEAPE for ail of the
Borrower’s public schools, for the monitoring of leaming outcomes in
Portuguese language, mathematics and social and natural sciences, as

-6-

Op
a
B.

1.

(b)

evidenced by the issuance of the Borrower’s Decree No. 6393/2013 of
September 23, 2013, duly published in the Didrio Oficial.

The Borrower, through SEPMulheres, has established the governance
structure for the Borrower’s Plan for Policies for Women, underpinning
the delivery of a network of specialized services to help women in
situations of violence and vulnerability, as prescribed in the Maria da
Penha Law, as evidenced by the issuance of: (i) the Borrower’s Decree
No. 6418/2013 of September 30, 2013 creating the Borrower’s
committee of policies for women (Comité Gestor do Plano Estadual de
Politicas para as Mulheres); and (ii) the Borrower’s Portaria 33/2013 of
October 16, 2013, appointing the members of the Borrower’s committee
referred to in (i) above.

Actions to be Taken Under the Program for the Second Withdrawal

Tranche. The actions to be taken by the Borrower under the Program include the
following:

Improving Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation to Increase the Results
Orientation of Development Programs, and the Introduction of Transparent
Procurement and Asset Management Practices.

(a)

(b)

The Borrower, through SAI and SEPLAN, has initiated the
implementation of SIPLAGE by completing the first evaluation cycle of
four development programs, as evidenced by the approval, through
SEPLAN, of a report, in form and substance acceptable to the Bank,
detailing the evaluation results of the four development programs.

The Borrower, through SGA, has established processes and distributed
responsibilities to support the implementation of the GRP, as evidenced
by the issuance of the Borrower’s legal instruction (nstrucdao
Normativa) regulating Decree 6412/2013, in form and_ substance
satisfactory to the Bank, duly published in the Diario Oficial.

Improving Monitoring of Learning Performance of Students in the
Borrower’s Public Schools and Aligning the Borrower’s Gender Policy and
Institutional Framework with Gender Policy Reforms at the National Level.

(a)

The Borrower, through SEE, has adopted the norms, processes and
mechanisms to implement SEAPE in the Borrower’s public schools
network, as evidenced by the issuance of legal instruction (Jnstrugdo
Normativa) regulating Decree 6393/2013, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, duly published in the Didrio Oficial.

 
(b) The Borrower, through SEE, has modified the school-level bonus system
to introduce performance agreements and performance-related pay in all
of the Borrower’s public schools, as evidenced by the issuance of a
Borrower’s Decree, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, duly
published in the Diario Oficial.

(c) The Borrower, through SEPMulheres, has adopted preventive and
assistance policies guaranteeing the rights of women in situations of
violence and vulnerability, in compliance with the Maria Penha Law, as
evidenced by the publication in the Borrower’s Diario Oficial of the
signed minutes of CEDIM’s meeting approving the Borrower’s plan for
supporting the preventive and assistance policies referred to herein, all in
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.

(d) The Borrower, through SEPMulheres, has created management
committees in the Borrower’s municipalities of Sena Madureira and
Brasileia for the coordination of the implementation of the policies
mentioned in (c) above at the local level, as evidenced by the issuance of
a Borrower’s Decree, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank,
duly published in the Didrio Oficial.

Section II. Availability of Loan Proceeds

A.

  

  
   

Allocations
Allocated
expressed in Dollars

(1) First Withdrawal Tranche 149,375,000
(2) Second Withdrawal Tranche 100,000,000

(3) Front-end Fee (amount due 625,000
pursuant to Section 2.03(c) of this
Agreement

TOTAL AMOUNT 250,000,000

General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
may specify by notice to the Borrower.

Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan is allocated in two withdrawal
tranches, from which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds.
The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:

    
    
       

Amount of the Tranche

-8-

 

 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.

No withdrawal shall be made of the First Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is
satisfied:

(a) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program;

(b) with the adequacy of the Guarantor’s macroeconomic policy framework;
and

(c) with the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate expenditure program,
sustainable debt, and appropriate fiscal arrangements with the Guarantor.

No withdrawal shall be made of the Second Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank
is satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Sections 3.01 (a) and (b)
of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank:

(a) with the Guarantor’s maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy
framework;

(b) with the Borrower’s maintenance of: (i) an appropriate expenditure
program; (ii) sustainable debt; and (iii) appropriate fiscal arrangements

with the Guarantor;

(c) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program;
and

(d) that the actions described in Part B of Section I of this Schedule have
been taken.

If, after this exchange of views, the Bank is not so satisfied with respect to
paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and/or (d) above, it may give notice to the Borrower to
that effect and, if within ninety (90) days after the notice, the Bank still is not
satisfied with respect to any of said paragraphs, then the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel all or any part of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:

all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and

the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into

this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s budget
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

-9.

cNi¢

LPS
49

 
Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines
at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank,
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.

Closing Date. The Closing Date is January 31, 2015. The Bank shall only grant

an extension of the Closing Date after the Guarantor’s Ministry of Finance has
informed the Bank that it agrees with such extension.

-10-

 

§

 
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule

1, The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

Principal Payment Date Installment Share
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning May 15, 2019

through May 15, 2039

On November 15, 2039

   

   
     
  

  
   
 

 

2.38%

2.42%

 

2. If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1
of this Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”)
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

PANY
& ON

-11- SO

_

 
 

(a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.

-12-

< We

 
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions

l. ‘“Borrower’s Plan for Policies for Women” means Plano Estadual de Politicas
para as Mulheres, the Borrower’s plan comprising, inter alia, preventive and
assistance policies and services guaranteeing the rights of women, in compliance
with the Maria da Penha Law.

2. “CEDIM” means Conselho Estadual dos Direitos da Mulher, the Borrower’s
council for women’s rights created pursuant to Law No. 2.431, dated July 2,

2011.

3. “CGE” means Controladoria Geral do Estado, the Borrower’s General
Comptroller’s Office.

4, “Diario Oficial’ means the Borrower’s and/or Guarantor’s legal publications

newspaper, as the case may be.
5. “Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure:

(a) for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
or grant;

(b) for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the
Borrower:

Sub-group Description of Item
| «| Alcoholic beverages
| 121 | SsSsSsSsSsTrobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco refuse

122 Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes
F525 Radioactive and associated materials

325 |
Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked

 
     
   
   
   
       

-13-

S we :

 
7
nuclear reactors

728.43 Tobacco processing machine

pM Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores and
concentrates)

  
 
 
  

Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel

 

elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for

      
 

Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group
metals (except watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ wares (including
set gems)

      
  

    

-

 

(c) for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;

(d) for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
agreements to which the Borrower is a party;

(e) on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
United Nations; and

(f) with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.

“First Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan located to the
category entitled “First Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

“GRP”, means Sistema de Gestado de Recursos Publicos, the Borrower’s Public
Resources Management System established pursuant the Borrower’s Decree No.
6412 of September 27, 2013.

“Maria de Penha Law” means the Guarantor’s law No. 11340, dated August 7,
2006, which establishes the legal framework governing domestic violence
prevention, including protection and support for women who are at risk of, or
victims of, violence.

-14.
10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
referred to in the letter dated October 17, 2013, from the Borrower to the Bank
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its
execution.

“SGA” means Secretaria de Estado de Gestado Administrativa, the Borrower’s
Secretariat of Administrative Management.

“SEAPE” means Sistema Estadual de Avaliagdo da Aprendizagem Escolar, the
Borrower’s system to evaluate learning results of students in the public schools
network.

“SEE” means Secretaria de Estado de Educagdo e Esporte, the Borrower’s
Secretariat of Education and Sports.

“SAY means Secretaria de Estado de Articulagdo Institucional, the Borrower’s
Secretariat of Institutional Coordination.

“SEPLAN” means Secretaria de Estado de Planejamento, the Borrower’s
Secretariat of Planning.

“SEPMulheres” means Secretaria de Estado de Politicas para as Mulheres, the
Borrower’s Secretariat of Policies for Women.

“SIPLAGE” means Sistema Integrado de Planejamento e Gestao Estratégicos,
the Borrower’s integrated system of planning and strategic management,
established pursuant the Borrower’s Decree No. 6401 of September 25, 2013.

“Second Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled “Second Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

 

The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:

l.

The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted

in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
accordingly.

-15-

< Wo
a 4
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.

Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows:

“Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records

(c) The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders,

invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures

under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.”

Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows:

Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

bee (c) The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.

The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
accordingly:

(a) The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as
follows:

“<Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.”

(b) The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their
entirety.

-16-
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is
modified to read as follows (and ail references to “Project” throughout
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):

“*Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in
support of which the Loan is made.”

-17-

 

a, Aas i
