Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

   
   

 
 

OFFICIAL |
BOCUMENTS:

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8250-CN

Loan Agreement

(Ningbo Municipal Solid Waste Minimization and Recycling Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated ele fF , 2013
Agreement dated

LOAN NUMBER 8250-CN

LOAN AGREEMENT
Dels 4 2013, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF

CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.02.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this

Agreement.
ARTICLE Il — LOAN -

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of eighty million Dollars ($80,000,000), as such amount
may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with
the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the
project described in Schedule | to this Agreement (“Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of

Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article 1V of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02
(e) of the General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

Aon tends alin tet yun neg yegineeer mg a nha eet ee ANG nee

eg mene tag = tte teat, pud Cg

Una RR nse MUR POY A AML AT LEA
3.01.

4.01.

(b)

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (1) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan.
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency: (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or
vice versa; or (B), all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference
Rate.

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is -
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”. as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article TV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.

ARTICLE III — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end. the
Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project Implementing Entity in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the Project
Agreement.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and the Schedule to the Project Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.

ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.

The Borrower's Address ts:

Ministry of Finance

Sanlihe

Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China
Facsimile:
(86-10) 6855-1125

The Bank’s Address ts:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 248423(MC)J) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145(MCI)

AGREED at Beijing. People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written.

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

» SFU

Authorized Representative

Name: aay Dr'5 on
Title; <* reefer — Seu p-0f
Le e\ece se Ox ai. CR ft
INTERNATIONAL BANK FO
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By KA /w/

Authorized Representative

Name: LC errs (ob on A

Ce

Title: contr (Denectrr, Cb, Wo
SCHEDULE |

Project Description

The objective of the Project is to assist selected districts in Ningbo Municipality to
increase the volume and proportion of municipal solid waste recycled with processes for waste
separation at source and recycling.

Part A:

Municipal Solid Waste Separation, Collection, Sorting and Transportation

Strengthening the waste management system in the Project Areas, infer alia, through:

(1)

(ii)

(111)

(tv)

Part B:

residential waste separation through, inter alia, the provision of separation bins
and bags;

public places waste separation, through the provision of bins for recyclable and
non-recyclable waste, and recyclable material collection structures:

waste storage. transfer and sorting through: (a) the construction of about four
medium to large and two small transfer stations (including a sorting facility for
recyclable materials within one transfer station); and (b) conversion of about 22
smaller transfer stations for parking space for smaller vehicles. rest areas for
sanitation workers staff, or temporary storage space for compression equipment
and bulk municipal waste; and

waste collection and transportation through the provision of vehicles for produce
market and household kitchen food waste, and bulk waste transfer trucks.

Kitchen Waste Treatment

Construction of a treatment plant in Yinzhou district to process kitchen waste from
households and markets.

Part C:

Project Implementation Support

Provision of technical advisory services and support for the introduction, inter alia, of:

(1)

(ii)

(111)

(Iv)

a citywide program for public and community mobilization, education, and
awareness-raising to encourage waste separation throughout the Project period:

Output-based Incentive Payments to neighborhood residents committees to
encourage waste separation;

Output-based Incentive Payments for restaurants that install and operate oil-water
separators:

rules and regulations for solid waste separation:

4.
Part D:

(v) a municipal solid waste pricing policy:

(v1) assessment of bio-chemical characteristics of domestic solid waste and new
treatment technologies; and

(vii) asolid waste information management system.

Capacity Building and Project Management Support

Provision of technical advisory services for: (i) design review, advisory services,
construction supervision, Project management and monitoring; (ii) training m waste
minimization and municipal solid waste management for staff at neighborhood, sub-
district, district, and municipal levels; and (ili) external monitoring and evaluation of

performance in waste separation.

eS ike cone deem AMIEL MMEDAT Chg HO ae

A RVI Rae RR I RSME LOLA eA SMEARS
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Financing and Implementation Arrangements

ll

Financing Arrangements

For the purposes of carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make available to the
Project Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, part of
the proceeds of the Loan on the following principal terms:

(a) The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars or any other Currency as
the Loan may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion
(such principal amount determined on the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal
from the Loan Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn.

‘(b) The principal amount so made available (including an amount equal to the fee

paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement and any premium for Interest
Rate Caps or Interest Rate Collars paid pursuant to Section 4.05(c) of the General
Conditions) shall be recovered over a period of 30 years. inclusive of a grace
period of 5 years.

(c) Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest applicable from time to
time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.04 of this Agreement.

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to: (a) manage, operate,
monitor, transfer and reconcile the proceeds of the Loan made available to it pursuant to
paragraph 1 above in accordance with arrangements and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank: (b) take all required actions, including provision of timely consents and approvals
as may be necessary, to facilitate the utilization of said Loan proceeds and the
implementation of the Project and, to enable the Project Implementing Entity to comply
with its undertakings under the Project Agreement: and (c) maintain all relevant records
and documents related to the Loan and the Project and provide promptly such documents
and records, including all other information, as may be requested by the Borrower or the -
Bank from time to time.

Anti-Corruption

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

-6-
Safeguards

The Borrower shall take, and shall cause the. Project Implementing Entity to take, all
measures necessary to comply with, or all measures necessary to enable the Project
implementing Entity to comply with, the provisions of Section LC of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement.

Section II. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

il

Project Reports

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to monitor and evaluate the
progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the
Operations Manual. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester,
and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of the period
covered by such report.

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall cause
the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the Bank, as part of the Project
Report, not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited
financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory
to the Bank.

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to have its Financial
Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General
Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal
year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.

Section TTI. Procurement

i)

General

Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.

Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section. |

_7-

15 f PORTER Mts! ACA! CTU BRE LTE eR PL DE YAIR POOR OLE PETE,

See a rere Teena ae Pere eet Wee een ed TL et ee center

an eaer botany pinay Be

EMR ALE Ug ERCP I aD NORA OLESEN om comet Mee tN
‘
we

i)

Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts reter to
the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the Procurement Guidelines.
or Sections II, HI. IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services

International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.

Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The
following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than International
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and non-consulting services.
The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be
used.

Procurement Methods . |
| (a) ‘National Competitive Bidding. The procedures to be followed for

National Competitive Bidding shall be those set forth in the Law on |
Tendering and Bidding of the People’s Republic of China promulgated :
by Order No. 21 of the President of the People’s Republic of China on
August 30. 1999, with the following clarifications required for
compliance with the Procurement Guidelines:

newspaper of national circulation in the Borrower's territory,
except for civil works contracts that are estimated to cost less
than $2,000,000 equivalent each and for goods and non-
consulting services contracts that are estimated to cost.less than '
$300,000 equivalent each, which may be advertised in a |
provincial daily newspaper. Such advertisement shall be made
in sufficient time for prospective bidders to obtain
prequalification or bidding documents and prepare and submit
their responses. In any event, a minimum of thirty (30) days
shall be given to bidders between the date of advertisement in
such newspaper and the deadline for submission of bids, and the
advertisement and bidding documents shall specify the deadline
for such submission.

(i) All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a
|

(11) Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of
evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be specified in |
detail in the bidding documents. |

(11) All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
ualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall

 

-8-
(v)

(vi)

(vii)

(Vill)

(1x)

(x)

(x1)

be no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders.

‘Project Implementing Entity, as the case may be.

 

All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount
sufficient to protect the Borrower or the Project Implementing
Entity, as the case may be, in case of breach of contract by the
contractor, and the bidding documents shall specify the required
form and amount of such security.

Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand. The
time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for
receipt of such bids. |

an opportunity to be present (either in person or through their
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not
be required to be present at the bid opening.

All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding
documents and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the

form of pass/fail requirements.

No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price

falls outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or

All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered

bracket of average bids established by the Borrower or the

Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated
responsive bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate
standards of capability and resources and whose bid has been
determined: (A) to be substantially responsive to the bidding
documents; and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The
winning bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award. to
undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding
documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally
submitted.

Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank.
at its request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to
the performance of the contract and to have said accounts and
records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank.

Government owned enterprises in the Borrower's territory may
be permitted to bid or submit a proposal of goods, works and
non-consulting services if they can establish that they: (A) are
legally and financially autonomous: (B) opcrate under
commercial law; and (C) are not a dependent agency of the

- agency conducting the procurement. -

_9.

PIN Saec My Seto NOES Bat ta

Saas) 1m, mee
td

(xii) All bids should not be rejected solely because the number of |
| bids is less than three (3), and rejection of all bids or rebidding
| shall not take place without the Bank’s prior written |
concurrence.

(xiii) The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be
published in the national press or provincial press (as provided |
under sub-paragraph (i) above) or official gazette or a free and
open access website and shall identify the name and offered
price of the winning bidder, as well as the duration and
summary scope of the awarded contract.

 

(xiv) The Project Implementing Entity shall have in place provisions |

for bidders to protest.
Shopping | . - i |

Direct Contracting

 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

 

Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-
and Cost-based Selection.

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection,
which may be used for consultants’ services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the
circumstances under which such methods may be used:

 

Procurement Methods

 

(a)  Quality-Based Selection

| (b) Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualifications

kee

(c) Selection of Individual Consultants

 

(d) Single Source Selection (Firm and Individual!)

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's

Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.

-10-
Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

A.

(2) Goods and Non-consulting
(3) Consulting Services, including 3,540,000

(4) Output-based Incentive _ 4,540,000

| TOTAL AMOUNT _ 80,000,000 — |

General

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
Expenditures in each Category.

 
   
  
 
   

Percentage of
Expenditures
to be Financed (")
_ (inclusive of Taxes) _
50%

100%

Amount of
the Loan Allocated =
(expressed in Dollars)

48.860,000
22.860.000

Category

   
 
 
 
 
 
  
   

Services

Training and Workshops

   

Payments

Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this

| Agreement in accordance

| with Section 2.07(b) of the
General Conditions

(5) Front-end fee 200,000

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $8,000,000 equivalent may be made for

payments made prior to this date but on or after March 1. 2013. for all Eligible
Expenditures; and

-I|-

Fier a aipearrgeige oct rege a
(b) for payments under Category (4) unless: (i) the Outputs have been achieved in
compliance with the provisions of the Operations Manual: (ii) the Project
Implementing Entity has carried out an inspection and certified the satisfactory
achievement of the Output(s), in a form and substance acceptable to the Bank:
and (iii) the said Output or Outputs have not been claimed by the Borrower to
support a previous withdrawal application from the Loan Account.

2. The Closing Date is March 31, 2019.

_]2-

—
SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.

 

  

Installment Share

Principal Payment Date |
_ (Expressed as a Percentage) _|

  
 

On each May 15 and November 6S

  
  

  

! Beginning November 15, 2018
; through May 15, 2043

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph | of this Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph | of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.

(a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and

-13-

asf

Rac We Ce NRA INPRO SPACEY

SOME SMa tRNA OES tint

sect oR DRtee RENAE NES NaO HME yen

fo AEH MON SEEMED EMMA BEDI Toe gel ME COMED EE
“dt

outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-

paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of

such billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs | and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines. the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency. the

provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
[oan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.

_|4-
APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”,
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section 1V of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of

Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers”
dated January 2011.

“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the Project, have
experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by: (a) the
involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (it) loss of assets
or access to assets: or (ili) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not
such persons must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to
legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the
livelihood of such persons; and a “Displaced Person” means any of such Displaced
Persons.

“Environmental Management Plan” or the acronym “EMP” means the Environmental
Management Plan dated November 10, 2012, adopted by the Project Implementing Entity
(as hereinafter defined), which plan sets out the environmental protection measures in
respect of the Project, as well as administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure
the implementation of said plan, as said plan may be revised from time to time with the
prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental thereto.

“Financial Management Manual” means the Project Implementing Entity’s manual
setting out financial management, disbursement, and audit procedures to be observed in
the carrying out of the Project consistent with the provisions in Section II.B of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement, and which manual forms part of the Operations
Manual.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12. 2012.

“NMPMO” means the Ningbo Municipal Water and Environment World Bank Project

Management Office, referred to in paragraph A.1(b) of Section I of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement.

-|5-

Peete MEN soe FO NITED, NA ae Let aE ND

SYM GRAS Se NAMI ACE

Sa UIP RE ANN ETE RPT MRAT OE Aa HON nt Rue An gp RPoMalgare
18.

“Operations Manual” means the manual dated March 8, 2013. prepared by the Project
implementing Entity, which includes the Financial Management Manual, Procurement
Manual, Output-based Incentive Payment Manual. results framework, Project monitoring
indicators and disbursement arrangements, and other operational arrangements, as the
same may be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.

“Output” means the quantity of residential solid waste separated at the neighborhood
level under the implementation of the neighborhood residents committees and the
quantity of oil-water separators installed and operated by restaurants, in accordance with
the criteria included in the Operations Manual.

“Output-based Incentive Payments” means the amounts of incentive payment to be made
to the neighborhood residents committees and restaurants, for improving their waste
separation systems, on the basis of verified Outputs achieved, including for oil-water
separators. all provided in accordance with the Operations Manual.

“Output-based Incentive Payments Manual” means the Project Implementing Entity’s
manual setting out the procurement methods and procedures to be observed in the
carrying out of Part C of the Project, and which manual forms part of the Operations
Manual.

“P]Us” means the Project implementation units to be maintained by the Project
Implementing Entity in cach of the Project Areas, and referred to in paragraph A.1(d) of
Section | of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“Procurement Manual” means the Project Implementing Entity’s manual setting out the
procurement methods and procedures to be observed in the carrying out of the Project.
and which manual forms part of the Operations Manual.

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated March
10. 2013 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph
1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.

“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and the Project
Implementing Entity of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to
time: and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement.

“Project Areas” means, collectively, six urban districts, namely. Haishu, Jrangdong,
Jiangbei, Beilun, Zhenhai, and Yinzhou (including the National Hi-tech Park and
Dongqian Lake Recreation Area), within the territory of the Project Implementing Entity
(as hereinafter defined) in which the Project is to be carried out: and “Project Area”
means any of the Project Areas.

-16-
19.

“Project Implementing Entity” means the Borrower's Municipality of Ningbo in the
Province of Zhejiang.

“Project Leading Group” means the Project Leading Group established by the Project
Implementing Entity, on November 23, 2012. to provide overall leadership, policy
guidance and institutional coordination in Project preparation and implementation, and
any successor thereto, and referred to in paragraph A.1(a) of Section I of the Schedule to
the Project Agreement.

“RAP” means the Resettlement Action Plan dated January 10, 2013 duly adopted by the
Project Implementing Entity to be implemented or caused to be implemented by it in
carrying out the Project, which plan sets out, infer alia: (a) the principles and procedures
governing the acquisition of land required for the Project and related facilities, including
construction camps, borrow pits, spoil disposal sites, resettlement sites and quarries; (b)
principles, actions and measures for the payment of compensation to Displaced Persons
under the Project and for their resettlement and rehabilitation: and (c) reporting and
monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan, as the same may be
revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank; and such term includes all
attachments and annexes supplemental to said plan.

“Safeguards Instruments” means, collectively. the Environmental Management Plan and
the RAP. and such term includes any annexes or schedules to such instruments.

“SWPMO”™ means the Ningbo Domestic Solid Waste Separation Project Management
Office, referred to in paragraph A.l(c) of Section I of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.

“Training and Workshops” means the costs of training activities under the Project, based
on annual work plans and budgets approved by the Bank, and attributable to seminars,
workshops, and domestic and overseas study trips, along with travel and subsistence
allowances for training participants, services of trainers, rental of training facilities,
preparation and reproduction of training materials, and other activities directly related to
course preparation and implementation.

-|7-

1618 RES AEMAG BION, S81 gL TRAE EME TE TRALEE
